Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAl, USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10226-IND Type: (PCR)                             Report No. 10226
TWEDDLE, E/ X31707 / T9 073/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2275-IND)
DECEMBER 20, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                           Rupiah (Rp)
Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year  (1982)                                    US$1.   Rp 700
Completion Year (1990)                                    US$1 - Rp 1,850
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB              Australian Development Assistance Bureau (now AIDAB)
BINA PROGRAM      Directorate of Planning and Programming
BNA               Basic Needs Approach
BPAM              Interim Water Supply Authority operated by CK until it is
established as a PDAM
CK                Cipta Karya.  Directorate General of Human Settlements
(Housing, Building, Planning & Urban Development)
DAB               Directorate of Water Supply
DGCK              Directorate General of Cipta Karya
DSE               Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (until the 1984
reorganization, when DAB and PLP were created instead
FRR               Water Flow Restrictors (used in IKK schemes)
GOI               Government of Indonesia (The Central Government)
GON               Government of the Netherlands
HH                Households
HHC               Household Connection (inside or yard connection)
HRD               Human Resources Development
IKK               (Ibu Kota Kecamatan) principal city or capital of Kecamatan
(a sub-district of Kabupaken)
IRR               Internal Rate of Return
KAB               Kabupaten (District, second level administrative unit)
KEPPRES           Presidential Decree
KOT               Kotamadya (Self-governing City; or a Municipality)
LA                Local Authority (Government of a Kabupaten or a Kotamadya)
LCD               Water consumption in liters per capita per day
M3                Cubic Meter
MHA               Ministry of Home Affairs
MOH               Ministry of Health
MPW               Ministry of Public Works
O&M               Operation and Maintenance of Physical Plant
OR                Operating Revenues
P/T               Public Taps (for the use of the communities)
PCK               Provincial Cipta Karya
PDAM              Semi-Autonomous Water Enterprise owned by a Kabapaten or by
a Kotamadya
PIU               Project Implementation Unit
PLN              National Electricity Company
PLP               Directorate of Environmental Sanitation
PMDU              Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit
PMU               Project Management Unit
PPSAB            Water supply project offices under CK, and located in the
Province of by a self-governing city provinces (PMU was
merged with PPSAB in East Java)
PTU               Provincial Training Unit
REPELITA          National Five-Year Plan
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report for Loan 2275-IND
SEJP              Second East Java Project (Loan 2632-IND)
UFW               Unaccounted-for-Water
WE                Water Enterprise (a PDAM or a BPAM)



THE WORLD BANK                FOR 0MCM1 US ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
04k of Directo.CAqwtal
Opsatiam Evautkin
December 24, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Indonesia
East Java Water Supply Project
(Loan 2275-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - East Java Water Supply Project (Loan 2275-IND)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
2
Attachment
This document hba a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESLA
EST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2275-IND)
TABLE O  CONET
Pace No.
PREFACE . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .      .   L
EVALUATION SUKMYARY   .---...-----------                         -.         1
PART It  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PESSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . .          1
1.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
2.  Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
3.  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . .         2
4.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . .          3
5.  Project Implementation . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .         4
6.    Operations   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Physical Results ............... .                      10
Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        13
7.  Institutional Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
8.  Related Matters  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
9.  Bank Performance ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
10.  Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        26
11.  Performance of Consultants. Contractors, Suppliers          27
12. Project Relationships  . .                                    2 . . . . . . . . . . . .  Z8
13.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . .         28
Part IIs Project Review from the Borrower' Perspeetive ........            30
Part III: Statistical Tables
Tablel:  Rlated Bnk Loans an Credits............. ...........    86
Table 2s Project Timtable  ................. ....... ............ ......    86
Table 3S  Loan Disbureements ..........................    86
Table 4s  Project Implementation Schedule..e...........#.........    87
Table St A-Project Cost and Flaa    ing..........0...........        8e
Table St   3-Allocation of Procood  from Loal...0 .......... S 8
Status of Loan Covenants ...............                             go
Use of Bank Resources.. ........................-           ....     96
Annes
1.   Project Description (3 pages)
2.   Major Project  evisions (2 pages)
3.   Bacteriological Tests (1 page)
4.   Physical Reults ( page)
5.   PDUM Kabupaten Sidoarjo InCmeStatements (16 pages)
6.   Transfer of Assets (1 page)
This document hs a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their oicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2275-IND)
PRELCE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the East Jva Water
Supply Project, for which Loan 2275-IND in the amount of $30.6 million was
approved on May 3, 1983.  The original Loan Closing Date of June 30, 1989 was
extended three times until December 31, 1990, but the Loan Account was kept
open. as usual, for four months for disbursement of committed contracts and
payments. The last disbursement was on May 13, 1991, and the undisbursed
balance of about $0.07 million was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of
the Country Department V of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and by the Borrower and the implementing agency
(Part II).
Preparation of Parts I and III of the PCR was based on information
in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, material on the project in
Bank files, and the final draft of a comprehensive revised draft Completion
Report (including Part II) on the project prepared by the Borrower and the
implementing agency, the earlier drafts of which were reviewed by Bank Staff.
The draft PCR was finalized following discussions with Bank staff who were
involved with the project, and with the officials and the representatives of
the Borrower, the implementing agency and the project beneficiaries, during a
PCR mission to Indonesia in May 1991.
The generous assistance provided by those officials and
representatives to the PCR mission is gratefully acknowledged.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2275-IND)
EVALUATION 8UMOy
The Proiect and Its Objectives
i.        The project, like its two predecessors, continued to support the
objectives of the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to improve and extend water
supply service, to strengthen institutional development and operational
efficiency in the sector and in sector entities, and to ensure their financial
viability. In order to accelerate the provision of water supply in the
country, between 1979 and 1981, GOI had introduced two parallel, low-cost
crash programs. One was the Basic Needs Approach (BNA) schemes for larger
towns, and the other Ibu kota kecamaten (IKK) schemes for smaller towns. The
IKK schemes adopted a rather novel approach, the use of flow restrictore,
designed to provide a "drip" flow of water on a 24-hour basis. The aim of
both programs was to provide basic services to the urban communities, about
half of them to be served by house connections (HHC), and the other half by
public taps (P/T). Furthermore, in order to enhance managerial and
operational efficiency, and financial viability of water operations, under a
recent reorganization, all urban water operations within a district (excluding
a Kotamadya) were to be consolidated and managed by a single semi-autonomous
water enterprise (PDAM).
ii.       The project objectives were:  (a) to provide safe and reliable water
supply in 13 large towns (BRA schemes) and 37 small towns (IKK schemes) in
East Java Province; (b) to establish PDAH, develop and strengthen their
technical, financial and managerial performance; (c) to strengthen sector
institutions; (d) to establish a training unit in the province; and (e) to
prepare other relevant studies and future projects (para 3.1). The project
was estimated to cost about Rp 36 billion (US$54 million equivalent) and was
scheduled for completion by June 1988. The Bank loan was for $30.6 million
made on May 1983, and was scheduled to close in December 1989. There was an
element of risk in the project--it was felt that customers may not find the
IKK system acceptable which was identified in the Issues Paper and in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Implementation Experience
iii.      Project implementation commenced well, because of the early
appointment of consultants, and of the establishment of a Project Management
Unit and Project Implementation Units to improve project supervision.
Implementation was satisfactory for most of the project period and contributed
to disbursements from the Bank loan exceeding appraisal estimates. In line
with GOI policy to develop local construction industry, the physical works was
split into some 200 small contracts for implementation by smaller and weaker
contractors, which imposed an additional burden on project supervisors. The
major setback in project implementation, however, came about betalase of the



- iii -
bankruptcy of a key pipe supplier. In addition, there was the nagging problem
of annual shortfall in GOI counterpart funds. The distribution systesn was
extended beyond the originally envisaged area in order to capture more
customers. This contributed to the project being completed about two years
behind schedule, and to the final project cost, in Rupiah being 50 percent
higher than the SAR estimate (it was, however, lower in US dollar equivalent,
because of the devaluation of the Rupiah). The costs of physical works, which
was the major project component, increased by only about 18 percent, while the
expenditure on relevant studies and other project preparation, etc., increased
substantially (paras. 5.1-5.6).
Operations/Project Results
iv.       All IKK schemes are functioning satisfactorily in that they are
providing reliable service to the community; among those served include some
of the poor and a significant proportion of those in the lower income groups.
However, for a number of reasons (para. 6.3), the reaction of customers
towards flow restrictors was not favorable; therefore they were replaced by
meters in some IKKs, and there is a good prospect that other IKKs may follow
suit. (In fact, GOI has decided to discard the IKK design and proceed with
the traditional method of water supply.) BNA schemes are functioning
satisfactorily, but the handing over of a few of these schemes took longer
than had been envisaged.
v.        A frequent customer complaint was the taste of chlorine in the piped
water supply. This has caused some water enterprises to reduce chlorination
and, in at least two schemes the chlorinators had been completely shut down
for about two years. Bacteriological tests conducted by the Ministry of
Health in East Java in 1989/90 on a fairly large sample of water taken from
public systems indicated that in only about 60 percent of the systems the
water was bacteriologically safe. (Corresponding figure for water from
"privately" dug wells was about 14 percent.) It is, therefore, imperative
that effective chlorination is reinstituted in public supply as a health
safety measure (paras. 6.7-6.8).
vi.       For a number of reasons, including competition from existing sources
of supply (i.e., dug wells), demand for house connections was lower than
forecast, though by project completion (1990) the total number of iHHCs were
about the same as the SAR estimate for 1988. Furthermore, a significant
proportion of installed P/Ts were subsequently shut down, apparently because
of lack of demand, and quite likely because of the incorrect location of some
of the P/T sites. It should be noted that it is not in the financial
interests of a water enterprise to service P/Ts. Based on a revised
assessment of the number of households served by a P/T, the total number of
persons served by the entire project (i.e., by HHCs and P/Ts) would amount to
about 500,000 compared to some 700,000 estimated in SAR.
vii.      Staff training was an important factor for the long-term success of
the project and WEs. The provincial training unit (PTU) was established. PTU
has conducted a number of training courses for the benefit of staff at all
levels of WEs. The staff have also received training from consultants, and in
a few cases from the equipment suppliers. In addition, GOI has also
established a larger training unit at the national level which provides, among
others, courses for staff in the departments and institutions in the sector.



- iv -
viii.     Precise figures are not available on the unaccounted-for-water
(UFW); however, one could conclude that it was higher than the SAR estimate of
15 percent. One of the contributory factors for higher UFW would be leakage
through the joints of the main transmission and distribution pipes--reflecting
the material and the workmanship of the rather inexperienced contractors. The
latter would benefit wiLh some staff training courses. Training would be
particularly important for project implementation in the outer provinces.
ix.       All WEs appear to have achieved the cost recovery objective in the
recent years. A precise assessment on WEs' financial performance is hindered
by the question of whether or not the depreciation allowance used by the WEs
reflects the assets in operation; while most of the assets are and have
already been in operation, some of them are still in the process of being
legally transferred to the respective WEs. A contributory factor to the
satisfactory performance of WEs is their increased awareness to the need for
cost recovery, and the very useful role played by the Provincial Monitoring
and Development Unit (PMDU), which has been established to monitor performance
and provide assistance to PDAMs in areas of management, operation and finance.
x.        The consolidation of water systems achieved the objective of
establishing adequately sized WEs and is manifested by a reasonably adequate
degree of institutional and financial viability. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, WEs have difficulties in staffing higher level positions, while
staff at other levels need a considerable amount of training. This problem
would be even greater with WEs in outer islands and provinces, where the
population density is lower and trained staff are in far shorter supply than
in East Java. Still, overall, there is a substantial improvement in the
situation which existed in all areas prior to the project, i.e., the operation
and maintenance of works, of the standard accounting system (introduced with
the help of consultants) and some WEs are preparing their annual accounts
within four months of the year end), and the water service to the customer is
far more reliable than it was prior to the project. The average number of
staff per 1,000 connections in project WEs improved from about 25 at the time
of appraisal to about 12 on completion, which is satisfactory, considering
that each WE comprises a number of small water systems.
Project Sustainability
xi.       The project achievements are expected to be sustainable.  WEs are
now more aware of the need for cost recovery, their technical operations are
reasonable, and the staff, including the senior management, have the
opportunity to attend training courses conducted by PTU and elsewhere.
Project sustainability is further enhanced by the establishment of PMDU, which
monitors the performance of WEs, and provides them with the necessary
assistance in technical and financial management areas, including calculation
of tariff increases.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
xii.      The major achievements under the project were:  (a) substantial
improvement in the reliability of piped supp.y; (b) significant institutional
developments which include reduction in the number of WE employees per 1,000
connections from 25 to about 12, and the introduction and operation of a
standard accounting system; (c) availability of facilities for staff training



- V -
at PTU and elsewhere; (d) acceptance and commitment, for the first time in
Bank operation, from WEs and local authorities to the need for "cost
recovery"; and (e) the establishment of PMDU for monitoring managerial,
technical and financial performance of WEs and for providing assistance to
them in those areas.
xiii.    IKK schemes were correctly designed to include two generator sets to
provide a reliable power supply to the pumps, since PLN supply (a generally
cheaper energy source and also causing less O&M problems for pumps), was not
and would not have been available for some time in some of the remote areas of
many provinces. However, since some 70 percent of the project schemes were
connected to PLN supply within three years, one could conclude that the
project design was implemented without due consideration to the longer-term
likelihood of obtaining PLN supply.
xiv.      Another example similar to the above, where the objective received
less attention than the means, was the installation of Pl"s. The objcctive
was to ensure that, within certain physical and economic limits, the water
service also reached those who most lacked access to an acceptable supply,
namely the very poor. The number of PiTs to be installed in each IKK, which
had already been determined on the basis of the population, should have been
considered a guide rather than a target, and the actual number of P/Ts should
have been determined on the basis of population dispersal in the areas, and
discussions with potential consumers. The site of a P/T, which determines its
accessibility and use, should not have had to depend almost entirely on
donated land; provision in the project for site acquisition was needed. The
involvement of the community and its participation in the decision to have a
P/T should have been monitored closely in order to make adjustments to the
program where neressary. In the svent, the emphasis was placed largely on
achieving the physical target (i.e., the installation of the predetermined
number of P/Ts), to the detriment of appropriateness of the selected sites,
and the identification of potential consumers. While it is inevitable that
some of the P/T customers would opt for HHC in the course of time, the closing
down of a substantial number of P/Ts installed under the project could be
attributed largely, if not mainly, to incorrect selection of P/T sites. A
well-known lesson worth repeating is that modular (or standardized) systems
with emphasis on physical targets such as specific number of HHCs and P/Ts
generally get implemented at a fast pace and for a lower cost than the systems
which are somewhat modified to suit the jituations; the modified systems,
however, have the advantage of achievi..g better results in terms of social
targets such as the number of poor served.
xv.       The success of the GOI effort to reach the poor depended not only
upon the installation of an appropriate number of P/Ts (carried out under GOI
grants), but just as importantly, on WEs subsequently providing the necess6ry
service thrcugt P/Ts. Because of the low taziff for water from P/Ts, it is
not in the financial interests of WEs to provide service through P/Ts, and
this is reflected in the fact that practically no P/Ts have been installed
since project completion; it may also have some bearing on the closing down of
some of those P/Ts. Therefore, in order to ensure that WEs would continue the
service through P/Ts, there should be the involvement of WEs in the decision
on the location and number of P/Ts to be installed, and some formal
commitments from WEs to GOI which should be monitored regularly until the
practice of keeping P/Ts active has been fully established. Alternatively,



- vi -
G01 or the provincial government must consider providing some form of
targetted capital and operating subsidies to WEs for P/Ts. Subsidies towards
operation of P/Ts in larger cities have sometimes been provided to WEs, either
by GOI or by the provincial governments. Capital subsidies are now provided
through the standpipe crash program for water stressed areas.
xvi.      The presently estimated cost of providing service through an IKK
scheme is higher than that through a BNA scheme, while the average revenue
from an IKK is lower than that from a BNA. It should be no surprise that WEs
have made no great effort to extend the water supply to other Kecamatans,
(particularly where WEs would have to bear the capital costs) (para. 6.23).
xvii.     The project objective was to:  (a) provide an essential service
(potable and reliable supply for basic needs), which would have done away with
the expensive and inconvenient habit of boiling "drinking" water; and
(b) reduce the effort and the inconvenience of having to haul water, even for
basic needs, over long distances. With an average consumption of 45 lcd and
30 lcd from IKK HHs and P/Ts respectively, the customers would still have to
depend upon their traditional sources of water for their nonpotable needs,
e.g., washing clothes, etc. The fact that most (if not all) consumers,
including even senior PDAM employees, continue with the practice of boiling
water from all sources, including the piped supply, and some consumers
complain about the chlorine taste in the water, would suggest that the piped
water supply is considered by the customers merely as a more convenient
alternative to their traditional source of supply. In other words, the
project achieved the second objective, but not the first which is also the
most important. It would need major campaigns on the part of the authorities,
namely MOH, to raise the awareness of the customers to the need for and the
benefit from potable (bacteriologically safe) water supply. Only when that
awareness is raised adequately, and WEs have established a good record of
providing a reliable and potable supply, one can expect that the customers
would be prepared to make an effective transition from their existing sources
to public supply.
xviii.    GOI has moved away from the original IKK schemes in favor of the
traditional metered HHCs. There is, however, no doubt th.at the IKK schemes
with the FRRs was conceptually an optimal approach to providing potable water
service at a low cost. Its long-term success depended upon a number of
actions from the relevant agencies and departments of MPW, MHA and MOH, and
result in, among others, reliability and quality of supply, and the
community's acceptance of and adherence to such a service. IKK schemes, many
with key modification to their operation, are functioning and providing a
useful service to the community including some of the poor. The original
schemes could nave provided better service (or the envisaged level of service)
had there been a greater degree of involvement from the agencies/departments
of the three ministries; in particular, from MOH in molding the community
awareness towards the benefit and the need for piped supply, and had there
been the manifestation of will on the part of the authorities to penalize
tampering with the FRR.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2275-IND)
1.   Project Identity
Project Name and Loan No: East Java Water Supply Project (Loan 2275-IND)
RVP Unit: Asia Region, Country Department V
Country: Indonesia
Sector/Subsector:  Infrastructure/Water Supply
2.   Project Background
2.1       Indonesia is well endowed with rainfall, albeit seasonal, and with
ground and surface water resources. The physical development of the water
supply sector, however, has been constrained by: (i) contamination of water
sources by human and industrial waste, (ii) competing demands for water from
irrigation and industry, and (iii) long distances between water sources and
the demand areas. As a consequence, by 1981 only about 40 percent of the
urban population had access to piped water supply (including from private
wells), although intermittent and at low pressure; while the other 60 percent
had to depend on water from vendors, and from shallow wells, streams or
rivers, thereby exposing themselves to health hazards. In the rural areas,
under 20 percent of population had access to potable water. The sanitation
situation was equally poor in the country. Only about 20 percent of the urban
population and under 25 percent of the rural population had satisfactory
sanitation facilities. In fact, health statistics in Indonesia showed that
the incidence of diseases which can be related to poor water supply and
sanitation was higher than in other countries at a similar stage of economic
development.
2.2       Under the country laws, the Second Lpvel Regional Government, i.e.,
the local authorities (LA)--comprising 54 urban municipalities or Kotamadya
(Kot) and over 200 d4'tricts or Kabupatens (Kab)--are responsible for
providing water supp . and sanitation services in their areas. Many Kots and
most Kabs, however, do not have adequate financial resources and technical
capabilities to contribute to the development of WSSS. Therefore, the central
government (GOI) plays a major role in utban infrastructure development,
including planning, design and construction of water systems, and even their
initial operation 1/ until these are taken over by LAs, which then manage
1/   Carried out by GOI's Directorate of Water Supply (DAB), which also pro-
vides technical and managerial assistance to PDAMs. DAB is one of the
arms of the Directorate General of Human Settlements, known as Cipta
Karya (CK), itself a part of GOI's Ministry of Public Works (MPW).



-2-
and cperate them either as a unit of their Public Works Department (Dinas) or
as a semi-autonomous LA enterprise (PDAM).2/
2.3       Recognizing the need for improved water supplies at the local level,
in its successive Five-Year Development Plans (Repelita), GOI progressively
increased investment in the sector from about Rp 16 biilion under Repelita I
(1969-74) to around Rp 700 billion under Repelita IV (1984-89). The GOI
objective enunciated in 1982 was to extend or build water supply systems
rapidly so that, by 1990, 75 percent of the urban population and 60 percent of
the rural population would be served. GOI objectives also included promotion
of regional autonomy for developing projects (to ensure that the projects were
more responsive to local needs), developing local capabilities, training of
water sector staff, and raising the level of public health education.
2.4       In order to achieve the above service level targets in the urban
areas, between 1979 and 1981 GOI introduced two rather parallel 'crash" water
service programs: the "basic needs approach" (BNA) schemes for cities (in
essence, larger towns and poorer areas of major cities); and the "Ibu Kota
Kecamaten" (IKK) schemes for smaller towns (i.e., capitals of subdistricts).
The aim of the programs was to provide essential service to the communities,
at a cost affordable even to the poor, in those areas where traditional
sources (e.g., dug wells) provided water that was unsafe for consumption or
were not easily available. The service was expected to be provided through
low cost, standardized technology and extensive use of public taps (P/T) so
that about half of the population would be served by P/T and the other half by
house connections. Furthermore, GOI modified its financing policy towards
water supply projects, which used to be a mixture of loans and grants, to:
(a) grants for systems which would provide an average of 60 lcd (45 lcd for
IKK) for about 60 percent of the population of any given town; (b) mix of
loans and grants and internal cash generation for systems which provide
60-125 lcd; and (c) loans and internal cash generation for the rest of the
systems.
2.5       The project is the third Bank operation in the subsector.  As in the
previous operations, GOI was the borrower and CK the executing agency. The
project supported GOI objectives to improve and extend water supply service
and to strengthen the institutional development and operational efficiency of
the sector and sector entities, and ensure their financial viability.
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1       Project Objectives.  The objectives were:  (a) to provide safe and
reliable water supply in one Kotamadya, and in 12 large and 37 small towns
2/   The Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA), even though mainly an administrative
body is, however, responsible (through the provincial Governor) for over-
seeing the development and operations of LAs and their enterprises, e.g.,
PDAMs. In East Java, the responsibility for PDAMs was largely assigned
to the Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit (PMDU).



from seven districts in East Java Province;3/ (b) to establish PDAMs,
develop or improve their organizational capabilities and strengthen their
technical and financial performance; (c) to strengthen managerial capabilities
of GOI institutions (DAB and CK) responsible for the sector; (d) to establish
a training unit for East Java Province and to increase the overall
effectiveness of staff training in the entire sector; and (e) to prepare
future projects, and to carry out etudies for improving the effectiveness and
efficiency of the water supply sector.
3.2       Project Description (See Annex A for details).  The project
compriseds Part A, which provided for civil works and equipment for improving
or extending or building entirely new piped water supply systems with service
connections and P/Ts in 50 medium-size and small towns; Part B, which provided
for recruitment of experts and consultants for institutional development and
training; and Part C, which provided for appointment of consultants for
project management and supervision, design review, and preparation of future
projects. The total project cost was estimated at about Rp 36 billion ($51
million equivalent) with the Bank loan providing $30.5 million. Parts B and C
were to be cofinanced by the Australian (ADAB) and the Netherlands (GON)
governments. The Loan was signed on May 31, 1983, the project was expected to
be completed by June 30, 1988, and the Closing Date was fixed at June 30,
1989. Appropriate institutional development and cost recovery covenants were
introduced in the Loan Agreement (the key covenants are listed in Part III,
# 7).
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.1       Unlike the two previous Bank operations where the facilities were
built in the larger cities of several provinces, this operation included
facilities not only in medium-size towns (BNA schemes) but in smaller, rather
semi-rural towns (IKK schemes) as well, and all of them from one province.
Furthermore, unlike in the past where PDAMs were organized to serve a single
urban area, under a recent reorganization, all urban water operations within a
Kabupaten were to be consolidated and managed by one PDAM, in order to ensure
its organizational and financial viability. The institutional development
(including staff training) and the need for appropriate tariffs became
important elements for the eventual success of the operation. (The Kotamadyas
have their own PDAMs.)
4.2       The eventual 50 beneficiaries (13 BNA and 37 IKK schemes) were
selected from an original list of 25 larger towns and 100 small6r towns by CK
after consultation with the East Java Provincial and local governments, using
a rating and ranking system which was accepted by the Bank. Only eight of
those larger towns had water systems, but quite of few of them in a poor state
of operation and maintenance. Only Kot. Madium had an established water
enterprise (i.e., PDAM), while Kab. Malang, Mojokerto, Sampang and Sidoarjo
had relatively recent PDAMs, and Situbondo was a BPAM (this is a transition
3/   The seven districts or kabupatens were Malang, Mojokerto, Sampang,
Sidoarjo, Situbondo, Tuban and Tulungagung, while Madium was the
Kotamadya. About 60 percent of the population in the project areas was
expected to be served by the project; in absolute numbers, some 700,000
individuals, about half of them poor, were expected to be served.



-4-
stage for a WE, still under DAB, until it is handed over to LA, when it
becomes a PDAM). There were no water enterprises in Tuban and Tulungagung.
The option was retained to substitute a limited number of beneficiaries,
provided their replacements met the agreed criteria. Participation during
project preparation was sought from the Provincial and the prospective local
authorities and the PDAMs, and they were made aware of their respective roles
and obligations under the project. Project preparation and preliminary
designs (which were the basis for project appraisal) were carried out by a
consortium of foreign and local consultants for BNA schemes, and by local
consultants for IKK schemes, and financed partly under the preceding Bank
operation. DAB, (which was established following the reorganization in 1983,
among others, of the Department of Sanitary Engineering), together with the
provincial CK and the Kabupaten staff were to share the responsibility for
project implementation, and CK bad the overall responsibility for the project
and for international procurement.
4.3       Because the Provincial CK and the Kabupaten staff had not carried
out a water supply project while GOI had set the objective of deconcentration
(and eventual decentralization), a Project Management Unit (PMU) with CK staff
was created at the provincial level. Its objective was to maintain broad
overall control of the project (as well as on other projects in the province).
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), with some provincial staff was created
with the responsibility, under PMU, for day-to-day control of project
execution.
4.4       The project was expected to be replicable, and to lead to the
communities themselves taking the initiative to extend and improve their water
service. Some of the design features of the IKK schemes were, however,
innovative, and dispensed with the need for and the cost of customer meters
and administration of the metering system, and also with the need and cost of
production capacity at peak times. The key IKK feature was the flow
restrictor (FRR) instead of the meter in the household connection (HHC) which
restricted the water flow to a trickle but nevertheless was expected to
provide about 45 lcd over a 24-hour period for an average HH, the water being
collected in a storage container at the customer's premises. Customer
acceptance of such a scheme was determined to be a key factor for the success
of the scheme (this was explicit in the Issues Paper and the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR)1, and it was to be brought about by effective communication and
information to the community. As a further safeguard, DAB was to arrange for
a review of the design criteria, which was done.
4.5       Project Revision.  Even though, as in the earlier two operations,
the final designs were prepared after the appraisal, no significant revisions
were necessary. The distribution systems were subsequently extended beyond
the originally envisaged service areas in order to tap consumers in those
areas; these happened to be mainly the areas with poor HHs. TA funding was
substantially increased; this increase, however, primarily related to new
project preparation. Details of main revisions are in Annex B.
5.   Project Implementation
5.1       Recruitment of consultants at an early stage of project cycle (in
contrast to the earlier operations), early involvement of LAs in land
acquisition, and the establishment of PMU and PIUs contributed to generally



-5-
good implementation progress which was even slightly ahead of schedule in the
earlier years. In fact, GOI had met the Bank's three conditions for Loan
Effectiveness prior to Loan NegotiatJons, and the project works started about
the same time as Loan Effectiveness (September 6, 1983). Delays which would
have been brought about because of cumbersome procurement procedures (para.
5.5) were to some extent avoided by borrowing material from CK stocks. The
other potential source of delays was the budget shortfalls in spite of the
Bank regularly receiving routine GOI assurances to the contrary. A major
setback in project implementation came about because of the bankruptcy of a
key pipe supplier, which brought some 45 civil works contracts almost to a
standstill for some time. Another setback was the long lead time for delivery
of pumping equipment. Notwithstanding the above problems, most of the
originally envisaged works (other than the extension of the distribution
systems and consumer connections) were completed only a little behind SAR
schedule. The project as a whole was completed in December 1990.
5.2       Budget Shortfall.  In spite of repeated assurances from GOI to the
Bank missions to provide adequate financing for the project, GOI provided less
than adequate annual budgets at the beginning of the year and supplementary
budgets later in the year. Such a practice: (a) frustrates planning since
the prepared contract has to be trimmed to match the allocated budget;
(b) doubles procurement and administrative work load on the staff already
overloaded by cumbersome GOI procedures, since they have to prepare more than
one contract instead of just one; (c) could complicate maintenance
responsibility for the completed work, since more than one contractor may be
involved with overlapping responsibilities; and (d) contributes to overall
implementation delays, including probably forcing the contractor to accept
"overcompressed" work program which he subsequently may have great difficulty
in completing within the stipulated time.
5.3       Contracts.  The physical work was split into a large number of LCB
contracts (209, compared to the SAR estimate of 66 which was based on the
expected packaging of several IKK schemes sited close to each other. This
promoted participation by smaller and weaker (largely "B" & IC" class)
contractors and thereby met the GOI objective (Keppres 29/30 of 1984) to
develop the local construction industry. It was also a consequence of the
budgeting process. The use of weak contractors imposed additional supervision
burden on PHU and PIU staff. Contractor prequalification criteria were made
more stringent after the first two years of project implementation. During
this earlier period, the smaller and economically weak contractors was most
seriously affected by significant and unnecessary delays in receiving payments
from GOI, and even had to travel to Jakarta to expedite payment; the problem
was resolved with the establishment of Provincial Offices of the Treasury,
Ministry of Finance. Until 1988, contracts valued at over Rp 200 million had
to be approved by DAB in Jakarta; this ceiling has been raised to Rp 500
million. Furthermore, the new budgeting process permits contracting for a
two-year period, all of which developments have contributed to reducing the
number of contracts to around 100 in the follow-on, and much larger Second
East Java Project (SEJP).
5.4       Costs (Details of costs and financing plan in Part III, # 5A.
During project implementation, there was considerable inflation in the country
and the Rupiah was devalued. While inflation increased project costs in



- 6 -
Rupiah,4/ devaluation resulted in the Loan proceeds generating a
substantially larger amount in local currency funds than had been expected.
The costs, in current Rupiah of the main physical component (i.e., waterworks
construction) exceeded the SAR estimate by about 15 percent , which is
remarkably low given the subsequent high inflation in the country. A 1984
Bank mission had, however, reported that the cost estimates (revised at the
time) were substantially lower than the SAR estimates. The allocation from
the Loan amount for consultant services was increased substantially, from
about US$5 million to US$8 million, and amounted to about 45 percent of the
total loan amount. While the total project costs increased by about
50 percent from Rp 35.6 billion to Rp 53.5 billion, in US dollar equivalent
the total costs were about 18 percent lower than the SAR estimate.
5.5       Procurement.  Prior Bank review was not needed for civil works
contracts and for procurement valued at under $200,000. Of the 31 equipment
contracts, 19 were subject to ICB of value over $100,000) and were awarded to
local suppliers. It would appear that foreign suppl.ers are not competitive
on contracts in these price ranges. In the follow-on projects, the ceiling
has been raised from $100,000 to $500,000. The procurement process in the
country, particularly for internationally procured goods and equipment,
continues to be saddled with numerous steps and involvement of several GOI
agencies, unlike in the earlier projects, procurement procedures did not
contribute to major implementation delays. Delays of over 12 months are still
common, in spite of numerous efforts of Bank staff to advise on simplifying
existing procedures. These problems have been described in paras. 3.8-3.10 of
the PPAR number 8622 of April 1990 on Loan 1709-IND, i.e., the Second Water
Supply Project which overlapped this operation. lWhile streamlining of
procedures has been taking place, a major breakthrough, necessitating a
significant change in GOI policies, has yet to be achieved.
5.6       Disbursement.  The role of the disbursement monitoring task force in
the Finance Division of CK Secretariat was enhanced and formalized as a
Central Project Finance Office to support externally financed projects in
areas such as monitoring loan disbursement status, processing withdrawal
applications, assisting with preparation of annual financial statements, and
clearance of disbursement backlogs. This arrangement, together with the good
progress in project implementation, resulted in cumulative annual
disbursements being consistently ahead of appraisal estimates (by even as much
as over 50 percent) in the first four years (see Part III, $ 5B. By the
original Closing Date (June 1989) the actual disbursements were as high as
94 percent of the loan amount, which is remarkable, bearing in mind that the
cost of the major project component was lower (in US dollar terms) than the
appraisal 3stimate, and quite a sizable amount from the loan funds (about
45 percent) was subsequently used for preparation of future projects. The
disbursement percentage on civil works was increased to meet the needs of the
situation and to compensate for budget shortfalls. The original Closing Date
of June 30, 1989 was extended three times to enable the Borrower to utilize
the remaining amount from the Loan funds. The Loan was ultimately closed on
December 31, 1990, and an amount of about US$0.07 canceled.
4/   Rupiah costs are arrived at by converting the project expenditures to
current Rupiah equivalent.



-7-
6.   Operations
6.1       Commissioning of IKK schemes started in 1985 and was completed in
1987. Commissioning of BNA systems started in 1987, and while most of the
systems were completed by 1988, a few (namely Krian, Sidoarjo, Ngunut and
Mojosari) were effectively completed by 1990. The delays in handing or in
taking over the above systems to their respective PDAMs have been explained in
detail in Part II (paras. 5.20-5.21). Some of the reasons for the delays
were: difficutlty in arranging remedial work once the contractor had left the
site or the maintenance period had expired (learning from experience, this
problem was not allowed to emerge in the SEJP); limited experience of the
personnel involved in the project; and reluctance on the part of LAs/WEs to
take over, arising from their rather high level of expectations from the
systems (these were probably the result of their inadequate involvement in all
levels of project preparation and implementation). In the hiatus of about a
year between completion and handover of BNA Krian scheme, the customers were
not billed, while in another water-stressed area of the same district,
households were and are paying over Rp 10,000 per month for some 150 liters
per day delivered by a tanker to the community's storage terminal.
6.2       All BNA and IKK systems have been handed over to the respective five
PDAMs, and are in daily operation, except IKK Robatal which is now supplied
from IKK Kedundung. The three other WEs continued as BPAMs under DAB through
1990. According to PMDU and others, WE staff still need additional training,
over and above the various types of training already received, in order enable
them to operate and maintain their schemes satisfactorily. A few of the
production facilities have difficulties with maintaining the envisaged output.
One of the problems which has repeated itself a few times is the
unsatisfactory performance of boreholes, and even though redevelopment work
had been carried, additional work is said to be needed. Out of some 60
boreholes developed under the project;, less than ten percent had to be
subsequently redeveloped for different reasons, e.g., insufficient
construction supervision, problems screen material, etc.
6.3       Almost all IKK schemes are functioning reasonably well but not
exactly the way they were envisaged. Most importantly, they are providing
reliable water service to the communities; among those served include some of
the poor and a significant proportion of those in the lower income groups (see
para. 8.4, footnote 9). IKK problems were as follows: (a) FRR clogged
because of flaws in the design or material or workmanship, or dirt in the
pipeline; (b) the storage container (although a part of the scheme) was
provided only a year or two after the HHC was installed; (c) HHC at the far
end (downstream) of the distribution system received very little water flow
(this problem has been partly resolved in SEJP by looping such pipes, and also
by establishing zones or blocks with appropriate valves for regulation of
supply, if necessary), and none at all when HHs upstream tampered with their
FRRs; (d) community information and participation in the scheme was apparently
not effective, and the concept of trickle flow was not fully understood by the
community;5/ (e) some customers, particularly those economically and
5/   As part of project preparation, DAB would visit the prospective areas,
discuss with the people, have a demonstration system (made up of a tank
"dripping" water into a "household" container) and even have a "water



politically more powerful, wanted a higher level of service (like the one in
BNA schemes), and promptly obtained their supply by tampering with FRR;
(f) there was lack of will on the part of the authorities to deal with those
HHs which had tampered with the FRR, with the result that tampering with FRR
became rampant--some reports suggest that WE staff may have even helped in the
process; (f) the or'ginal location and housing for FRR provided easy access
for tampering [the housing and location of FRR have been redesigned since,
thereby making the access somewhat more difficult]; and (g) because of the
"high" cost of operation, and partly because of lack of trained staff, most
"pumped" schemes are operated generally for about 12 hours per day, and
provide supply on "block basis." instead of continuously, for which they had
been designed. Some PDAMs have replaced FRRs with meters in a few areas, and
others are in the process of following suit.5/ This change appears to have
been welcome by HHs, and has manifested in some areas with demand for
additional HHC. It should be n.ted that concern was expressed in the Issues
Paper and in SAR whether customers would accept schemes with unmetered,
restricted-flow connection, and whether FRR would become clogged.
6.4       Public Taps (P/T).  The actual number of P/Ts installed under the
project was nearly 70 percent of that originally planned (in IKK, 486 actual,
486 estimated; in BNA, 632 actual, 1,183 estimated). However, a significant
proportion of those P/Ts have either been closed down or provide
unsatisfactory supply (see table below for three project WEs). Various
reasons have been suggested for the "apparent lack of demand for P/Ts
including the "the loss of status" or the "stigma" even by the very poor
people at being seen using a P/T. It must also be taken into account that it
is not in the financial interests of WEs to supply water through P/Ts, since
the tariff is as low as 80 percent of the lowest tariff for a HHC; none of WEs
had reported installing P/Ts since project completion. (According to a
report, PDAM Malang has closed all P/Ts in one or more of its many service
areas, and has advised the users to apply for HHC). In the areas visited by
the PCR mission, the major, and probably the sole reason for closing down P/Ts
was quite likely the incorrect location of the site for P/Ts; more attention
would seem to have needed in terms of the needs of the community when choosing
the location of P/T sites. While several areas visited by the PCR mission
appeared to be a heterogeneous mixture of households (some with potential P/T
customers, others for HHCs), in the catchment area of one P/T the manifested
affluence of the community was such that it is doubtful whether the P/T had
any real or long-time customers at all. It should be noted that, by all
accounts, those P/Ts which function are managed in most cases by a coordinator
on behalf of the community; unlike in the poorer areas of major cities, where
a significant number of P/Ts are managed and operated by "concessionaires," or
water is sold by vendors. This aspect of commercial enterprise was apparently
not a common feature in the project areas.
fair" in the area.
6/   The problems with IKK schemes and their flow restrictions have been the
subject of studies including "Report of IKK Review Mission, July 1984" by
DHV and IWACO B.V.



-9-
.le BNA TUung Agim  20  20    1.BRATubsn                                i
2. OlK Panrukan*   22   23    2. 5lA Ngmt*     8  30    2. IKK Sumwding   5  16
3. IKK Jetf Bantoe  3    9   3. IKK SeraWn*    3  13    3. lICK Patug     6   tW
4. lIK easuki     2   20    4. IKK KaranglRjo'   2   9    4. lIKK RAget   S  1S
S. IKK Pmnji*     5   1S    S. IKK SuXwr aGqol      9     5. IKK Sokok    2   9
6. IKK Kapon           9     6. IKK CCumr Darat'  2  18    6. IKK Tlafk Byo' 4   9
7. IKK ArJasa*    1    9     7. IKK ReJotaivan            7. IKK Plp-g    4  1S
8. IKK Kill Daifr    18    S. IKK Jetfroo    1   9
*MuFt' PrmJ.et (Loon 2275- lI) Sd_e
6.5       It is difficult to make an accurate and reliable assessment of the
number of households or persons served from P/Ts. SAR estimated an average
P/T to service some 200 persons (20 households, with a water consumption rate
of 30 lcd, and these figures were used for the physical design of facilities).
From the mission's field observations, an average P/T was presently serving
about ten or even a lesser number of HHs.  On the bas4s of SAR assumption of
per capita water consumption at a PIT, an average HH would be burdened with
having to haul some 500 lbs of water for say 50 to 100 meters each day; it
would, therefore, be reasonable to assume that within the first few years,
some of these households would be opting for HHCs, even with a slight growth
in their income. On the other hand, new HHs could emerge in those
communities, thereby making up for the "lost' HHs, but on balance, the number
of customers at P/Ts is likely to decrease over the years. Household
customers had to pay about Rp 50,000 for a HHC, which is supposed to reflect
its actual average cost. There is no 'connection' or similar charge for
households using P/Ts which, in an IKK scheme cost about Rp 600,000. Assuming
that Rp 50,000 is the correct average cost of a HHC then, clearly it makes
financial sense to provide HHCs free of charge to potential P/Ts customers,
where these number less than ten. WEs would then also obtain an increase in
revenue (because of the higher tariff for HHC) from these customers, and the
long-term problem of having to shut down P/To would not arise. Consideration
should therefore be given to providing HHCs free of charge, particularly where
there is the possibility of HHs being able to provide or rather volunteer
their labor for their HHCs. In fact, it should be an important consideration
in the.case of smaller and very poor conmunities comprising clusters of six to
eight HHs, quite a few of which presently do not have easy access to potable
water supply.
6.6       Guidelines had reportedly been provided on the choice of location
for PIT s,Ite., which included seeking community consensus.  The P/T site was
to be obtained invariably as a grant or donation from one of the members of
the community who was also assigned the role of P/T 'caretaker or
coordinator." The decisions to identify communities which needed P/Ta and to
choose the location for P/T sites (even assuming that such a choice was
readily available) was left largely in the hands of a P1U supervisor--a young
graduate from a technical school with some three years of work experience. In
the event, it would appear that the supervisor did not obtain adequate level
of community participation and consensus, and at the same time faced with the
more pressing need to implement the subproject, including the already



- 10 .
predetermined number of P/Ts, by the given deadlines, was not able to give the
location of P/T sites the attention it deserved. Furthermore, a question can
be raised as to whether land for P/T site donated by one member of community
can be the most suitable location (in terms of access, etc.) to most of the
other members. And, since P/Ts had a vital role in the 50/50 service targets
set by GOI, it seems false economy on the part of GOI (as well as the Bank) to
depend almost entirely upon donated land for P/T sites. The target ratio of
service provided by HHCs and P/Ts has since been modified by GOI from 50/50 to
80/20.
6.7       Chlorination of Water.  A major complaint from IKK and BNA
consumers, according to WE staff, has been the chlorine taste in the piped
water supply, which is in sharp contrast to the taste of water from their
traditional source, e.g., dug well. It would appear that the customers (and
for that matter even WE operators--see below) are not fully aware of the
purpose of chlorination (an important role here for MOH to enlighten people on
chlorination of water), and there is also the possibility of some customers
perceiving that the piped water needed "medication" in order to make it safe
or good enough for consumptionl These complaints have apparently induced some
PDAM staff to reduce the chlorine content in the piped water. In the schemes
visited by the mission, the chlorinators in two IKK schemes had been shut down
altogether for nearly two years; and in two others the operators were not able
to produce the standard equipment for measuring the chlorine content/level,
which is supposed to have been supplied by DAB when the schemes were handed
over. (A recent Bank report referred to action towards 17 IKK chlorinators
which needed to be repaired.)
6.8       Bacteriological Tests (Annex C).  Bacteriological tests conducted by
the Ministry of Health in East Java in 1989/90 indicated that out of 1,900
samples of water taken from piped systems of 37 WEs in the province, 1,200 (or
63 percent) were considered safe. On the other hand, the quality of water
from only 9 out of 66 (or 14 percent) samples of water from privately dug
wells (mainly new wells) were deemed to be bacteriologically safe. From the
eight project WEs, however, only 144 (or 45 percent) out of 314 samples were
found to be safe. It cannot be determined whether the results from the
samples taken in 1989 can be considered representative of the present (two
years later) water quality from project schemes. Nevertheless, it is
imperative:  (a) that every effort be made to reinstitute effective
chlorination in public supply, new testing in each scheme; (b) that operators
be retrained if necessary to carry out chlorination and testing; and (c) that
MOH redouble its efforts toward more stringent and systematic testing of piped
supply. Concurrently, measures must be initiated, including effective public
health education campaigns about the purpose of chlorination--in fact these
campaigns should have taken place as early as project preparation, by the
respective authorities to eventually wean the consumers of well water to piped
supply. Consideration shculd also be given to other inexpensive methods of
disinfection, if this would help reduce the undesired taste without adversely
affecting the eventual quality of water at all points in the system. The PCR
mission was unable to obtain realistic recent data on health matters such as
incidence of diarrhea and infant mortality.
6.9       The deeply ingrained practice of boiling water for drinking
purposes, (this was the outcome of major and effective MOH campaigns)
irrespective whether the water is from the public supply or from a dug well,



- 11 -
apparently continues at all levels of the society, including even WE
directors, who otherwise insisted to the PCR mission that water from their
piped system is bacteriologically safe. [On the other hand, it is just as
well that the habit continues, judging from the bacteriological tests
conducted by MOH on water samples from both the public supply and the dug
wells. It may take quite some time and several measures, including concerted
efforts from PDAMs and MOH to wean the customers away from this costly and
inconvenient necessity, and which, in turn, has probably contributed to the
seemiP-ly booming market for the very expensive "bottled water."
6.10      Public Power Supply (PLN) for IKK Pumps.  IKK pumps are
progressively being connected to PLN supply, thereby making redundant one of
the two generator sets, part of the civil works and the large fuel tank.
Presently some 70 percent of project IKK schemes have been so connected.
While discussions with PMU/PIU officials suggest thet a routine inquiry was
made with PLN about the availability of power supply prior to installation of
generator sets, the emphasis (probably accentuated by the prevailing low fuel
prices) was apparently to go ahead with the implementation of the project as
had been envisaged (i.e., with gen-sets). Under SEJP, there is a systematic
effort to explore the possibility of obtaining PLN supply prior to deciding
upon generator sets.
6.11      Physical Results (Annex D).  Overall, the project results were
considerable during the period 1983-90. Sales of water more than tripled,
from 5.5 Mm3 in 1982 (the base year) to 18.7 Mm3 in 1989, while the number of
connections increased over fourfold during the same period. The results were,
however, somewhat short of the appraisal targets; actual water sales and
connections in 1990 were respectively 71 percent and 77 percent of the
corresponding SAR targets for that year. The total number of connections by
project completion (end of 1990) was about 86,000 (including all active and
inactive P/Ts), which is slightly higher than the SAR target of 85,500 for
1988.
6.12      Budget shortfalls obviously contributed to the slowdown in the
expansion of the distribution system and consequently to the installation of
consumer connections. Furthermore, demand for piped supply was lower than
projected, which led to the subsequent extension of the distribution system
beyond the original area in order to capture additional consumers. Factors
which contributed to the shortfall in demand include: (a) actual main
parameters (such as population growth, size of households, etc.) were lower
than projected; (b) competition from traditional water sources such as shallow
wells; (c) connection charges and tariffs; (d) the chlorine taste and the lack
of confidence in the reliability of supply (the problems with supply did
little to enhance confidence); (e) inadequate impact of public health
education campaigns; (f) lack of acceptance of FRRs; and (g) likelihood of
unreported connections.
6.13      BNA schemes were expected to also provide industrial and commercial
connections (SAR projections did not show their number separately), while IKKs
were expected to provide only HHCs. Judging by the performance of Tuban,
which had only one industrial and ten commercial customers in a population
center of over 50,000, it would appear that an important segment of the
"highly lucrative' market has yet to be adequately tapped by WEs. Even in
IKKs, which could well have populations in the five digits, there would



- 12 -
certainly be some industrial and commercial activity in the town center, and
since FRRs are being replaced by meters, consideration should be given to
tapping that segment of the market. Creation of local laws to the effect that
all commercial establishments (at least those handling foodstuffs) should be
connected to or have potable water supply would help in achieving the above
objective.
6.14      Unaccounted-for-Water (UFW).  Measures have been and are being taken
within and outside the project to monitor and to reduce UFW. They include:
(a) practical leak detection facilities at the training center and the
emphasis placed on this issue in staff training courses; (b) establishment of
special task forces to control water losses within WEs; and (c) installation
of meters in IKK production and distribution systems. These measures have
contributed to or reflect the increasing awareness of WEs to the need to
reduce UFW, and are believed to have resulted in a reduction of UFW in some
WEs. It is not possible to determine the precise amount of UFW because of
doubts as to the accuracy and reliability of meters and of meter readings, and
also because some IKK schemes did not have production meters and several do
not have consumer meters; the UFW figures in Annex D should therefore be
considered indicative. Nevertheless, one could conclude that, for a variety
of reasons which have not been accurately determined, the actual UFW is higher
than the SAR target of 15 percent even in completely new systems. In Sampang,
for instance, the high UFW of 40 percent is attributed by PDAM officials to
heavy water leakage in the older (but small) part of the system, which was
built some 50 years ago. If the presumption is correct, then a question can
be raised about the merits of retaining the small old part of the system,
especially when the saline conditions in the ground are likely to have
corroded the pipes of this old distribution system.
6.15      In the judgment of this PCR mission, a low UFW target such as
15 percent is overambitious and wouldl require, to start with, reliable
material and a high level of workmanship in pipe-laying and pipe connection in
order to minimize the leakage through the pipe joints--a key contributory
factor to UFW. Quite a number of pipes for HHCs, which were made of PVC,
collapsed under the crushing loads (this material was replaced by galvanized
iron in SEJP, and has been superseded by another material in the more recent
projects). The project would have benefitted from comprehensive training
courses in these areas to the staff of B and C Class contractors to supplement
whatever little experience they had in this kind of activity. In fact,
training of contractor staff could well be a serious necessity, for the
construction of IKK schemes in the outer islands and provinces. In the
follow-on Bank projects, the UFW target has been set at 20 percent, which is
certainly nearer to the realistic target of 25 percent for Bank-assisted
projects.
6.16      Manpower Utilization.  There was a substantia'L improvement in
manpower utilization (number of employees per 1,000 connections) during
project implementation. This ratio, which averaged about 25 at the time of
appraisal in 1983, improved to about 12 by 1989 and to 10 in 1990 (SAR
projection was just under 10). This is a satisfactory development considering
that the eight WEs have a total of well over 50 water schemes, many of them
small IKks (Annex D).



- 13 -
Financial Performance (Annex E for Annual Statements)
6.17      Cost Recovery.  GOI cost recovery policy is aimed at mobilizing
resources at the local level. For PDAMs which provide basic needs services,
the policy is for WEs to generate revenues adequate to meet operation and
maintenance expenses and the depreciation allowance. Since the capital
expenditure of such WEs is funded with grants, there would be no debt to be
serviced, and therefore, the objective was for WEs to use this depreciation
allowance to carry out minor expansions of their systems. This objective is
fully supported by the Bank, and is included in the Loan covenants.
6.18      Transfer of Assets.  Almost all the assets constructed under the
project are in operation, some of them for quite some time. Hiowever, ouite a
sizable proportion of those assets has not formally or legally been
transferred to their respective WEs, and therefore, do not show up in WEs'
Balance Sheets. A joint Departmental Team has been established at the Central
Government level with the responsibility to expedite the transfer of assets to
the respective PDAMs. One of the problems which had delayed the transfer is
the lack of essential information, e.g., as-built record of drawings and
inventories. Measures are under way to expedite the transfer, and three of
the five sequential steps (see Annex F) for the transfer of assets have
already been taken. The cumbersome process of transferring assets has plagued
the two earlier Bank-aesisted projects.
6.19      Some WEs have been charging depreciation allowance which is
permitted under the law and which is higher than a rate which is based on the
economic life of assets. Therefore, even though the transfer of some of the
assets has not yet taken place, it would appear that the depreciation
allowance charged by these WEs may t1ell reflect "fair wear and tear" of their
assets in actual operation. On the other hand, in one or two WEs, notably
Mojokerto, the recorded annual depreciation is clearly understated (relative
to the assets actually in operation). In practice, this means that the assets
of Mojokerto are being exhausted without adequate provision for their
replacement.
6.20      Performance.  Under loar. covenant 4.04 (a) project PDAMS are
required to generate adequate revenues to meet their O&M expenses and
depreciation (based on revalued assets) starting from 1985. As indicated in
the 1988 and 1989,7/ all five PDAMs, namely, Madium, Malang, Mojokerto,
Sampang and Sidoarjo have been generating revenues which were generally equal
to or exceeded O&M expenses and depreciation allowance. However, since it is
unclear whether the depreciation allowance used by thiese WEs reflects a fair
value relative to the assets actually in operation (in the case of Mojokerto
it clearly did not), it cannot be readily determined whether the performance
of the five PDAMs met the requirement of the loan covenant from the practical
aspects (even though they may have met it from the legal aspects). In the
case of the other three WEs, namely Situbondo, Tuban and Tulungangung, it is
not clear from the lo*.i documents whether they are also required to meet the
above loan covenant while they continue as BPAMs as there was no separate
covenant for BPAMs. These BPAMs, which were expected to be "graduated" to
PDAMs by 1985, continue to receive GOI subsidies. Situbondo, on its own, has
7/   Unaudited.



_ 14 -
generated adequate revenues to meet the O&M expenses in those three years;
while Tuban and Tulungagung had similar results in the last two years, but
were marginallY short in 1987/88. Overall, the financial performance of WEs
in this project during the thrqe years 1987 to 1989 was generally better than
that of WEs (except PDAM Surabaya) under Loan 1709-IND for a similar period,
i.e., from 1985 to 1987--obviously reflecting both PMDU assistance and the
increasing awareness on the part of WEs to the need for reasonable cost
recovery.
6.21      Under the existing laws, LAs are permitted to withdraw about
55 percent of PDAH's Net Income (or Profits).  In 1985 MHA issued guidelines
to the provincial governors suggesting that PDAMs should not be required to
make any further contributions to their LAs and that the PDAMs should be
allowed to use their revenues exclusively for expenditure related to water
supply until 75 percent of service area population has been served.
Notwithstanding these guidelines, most LAs continue to withdraw their share of
PDAM's profits. Where the depreciation is understated, particularly as in the
case of Mojokerto, this would tantamount to erosion of PDAM's capital. While
the action of withdrawing "profits" does not, from a purely legal sense,
contravene the requirements of the loan covenant 4.04(d), it certainly goes
against the spirit of the covenant and of GOI "Cost Recovery" Policy. As a
lesson for the future, it is important to be more specific when drafting such
covenants, which should take into account changes needed to the existing laws.
Furthermore, where LAs retain the right to withdraw a percentage of WE's
profits, at a minimum, a provision must be included in the covenants to the
effect that such profits should be appropriately adjusted on an annual basis
for 'revalued' actual asset depreciation and for bad debts.
6.22      Accounts Receivable (A/R).  GOI agencies had a consistent records of
long delays in paying their water bills.  Therefore, in addition to the
requirements in the Loan Covenant (4.05), where- GOI undertook to pay its water
bills within 60 days, other measures were also subsequently instit'uted, such
as the intervention of the Association of Water Enterprises. These efforts
and the dialogue between Bank and GOI staff achieved only a limited success;
other GOI institutions have now agreed to follow-up on the matter. The Table
prepared by PMDU, indicates that GOI agencies, which were required to pay.
their bills within 60 days, have been taking progressively longer time
(between June 1989 and June 1990).
&U, guv aft~ aL_
Lq-aF*    June    JUWN   1A  a -    X of sittin
1989    191  stampr  foe pat
IPmIttfn)    12 UflthS
lab. Nadf1n  305    416  6.2  7
ab. Muttg  145   313  54.5  4
lab. Neijkwte  149 4n  16.9  v
K&b. tsg    337 386  V29.   r
lab. Sfdosle  305    42  =3.S *  9
Kab. SItthgd,  430 4    12.1  4
lab. Trhw  131    278  8.9  4



- 15 -
6.23      Comparison of Unit Costs and Revenues--BNA and IKK schemes.  On the
basis of available information (no guarantee on its accuracy or reliability)
from IKK schemes, it would appear that the unit "direct" cost of water from an
IKK scheme is a little (8 percent) higher than that from a BNA scheme, and
considerably higher (75 percent) when the investment cost, admittedly a GOI
grant, is taken into account. IKK unit costs would decrease with increase in
production/sales--most schemes now operate only about 12 hours per day. On
the other hand, the average tariff for IKK water sales is only about
75 percent that of BNA (See Table 2). If those figures are indicative,
clearly the IKK objective of providing low cost service has not been realized.
(A more systematic approach should be adopted under the SEJP to collect data
and other information necessary for making such an accurate assessment). The
question, however, is whether small schemes (using generator sets) to provide
restricted water service to small communities in a rather widely dispersed
area should necessarily be less expensive than the standard schemes (using
power supply) in larger towns, mainly because the cost of meters, metering
administration and peaking production capacity have been dispensed with.8/
Table 2: AVERAGE TARIFFS AND COSTS OF SELECTED IKK AND BNA SCHEMES
(Rp/m3)
Costs
Tariffs              Direct                nc. Capital Charges /a
IKK               121                  130                           697
BNA               161                  120                           398
/a  Admittedly Grant Funding (assumed 9 percent interest, 30 years).
6.24      Audit.  The audit reports have consistently taken longer than that
stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Several PDAMs have been able to complete
their accounts within as few as three months from the year-end, and the
bottleneck appears to be with BPKP, the government auditors--a manifestation
of the need to increase the capability of BPKP or to have the accounts audited
by outside "independent auditors. Most audit reports carry comments and
qualifications from BPKP; PMDU and PPSAB have been doing valuable work in
preparing corrective action plans and assisting PDAMs and BPAMs respectively
in their actions to overcome the above problems.
8/ According to Wash Technical Report No. 43, Dated September 1944, Titled:
"The Value of Water Supply and Sanitation in Development". The costs of
water in 1983 in South East Asia were as follows:
(a)  Urban House US$60-US$150 p(  capita.
(b) Operation US$0.10-US$1.OO pwr kP.



- 16 -
7.   Institutional Developments
7.1       Many of the relevant aspects of institutional development under this
project have been discussed, some of them in fair detail, in the PPAR of Loan
1709-IND (Chapter IV, paras. 4.01-4.24), the earlier Bank operation which
overlapped this operation as well as SEJP, the follow-on operation. They are
also discussed in great detail under Part II (Borrower' Part) of the PCR.
Technical Assistance to WEs was partly provided through ADAB, which funded the
consultants. Major developments during this operation (and continued under
SEJP) were: (a) organization of the water sector and WEs, including the
consolidation of a district's urban water systems under one WE;
(b) deconcentration of the activities of central ministries and agencies,
which led, among others, to establishing PMU and PIUs; (c) monitoring of WEs
which led to establishment of Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit
(PMDU); and (d) substantial effort towards manpower development, including
development of training capability in the provinces.
7.2       Consolidation of Water Systems.  The lessons from the earlier
operations, e.g., vital need for cost recovery, and for optimal use of the
countrywide scarce "trained personnel", contributed to consolidation of water
systems within a district. Without such a course of action, most of the small
water systems (practically all IKKs) on their own are unlikely to achieve cost
recovery, and to attract and to retain qualified staff to operate and maintain
the system. Consolidation of "project" water systems achieved the objective
of establishing adequately sized WEs, each with a reasonably-sized customer
base, which, in turn, is manifested by a reasonably adequate degree of
institutional and financial viability.
7.3       Notwithstanding these developments, the difficulty in filling higher
level positions at WEs continues. All the top and many of the senior (i.e.,
Director) level positions in project WEs continue to be held by LA employees
or retired government officials, some with little experience in water sector,
or by staff seconded from DAB. This creates staff problems: one is that some
of these staff require to be sent on training courses or need the time to
develop a knowledge of the enterprise which they have to manage; another is
that some of those staff are subject to transfer, even at short notice, before
they have been able to make any worthwhile contribution to the objectives of
the enterprise; finally, the motivation of junior staff is stifled as their
career advancement is blocked by the kind of "stop-gap" appointments noted
above.
7,4       WEs have much less problem in staffing middle and lower level
positions. Virtually all such staff are WE employees. However, as stated
earlier the staff need additional training. Some of the recruited staff
lacked basic knowledge and skills required in order to benefit from training
courses which they had attended. Still, overall the technical operation of
WEs is a substantial improvement over that which prevailed some years earlier.
7.5       At the time of project appraisal, the project WEs maintained their
accounts generally on a cash basis (rather than on accrual basis), the
available financial information was limited and almost outdated, and the
record on fixed assets was inadequate. With the assistance of consultants, a
standard accounting system has been introduced, and the staff have been
trained in its operation. Most WEs (Mojokerto excepted) are now able to



- 17 -
prepare their annual accounts within four months of the year end.
Shortcomings do exist, as noted in the auditor's comments on the past annual
accounts, but nevertheless, overall it is a substantial improvement over the
state of affairs which existed in the early 1980s.
7.6       Deconcentration.  The objective was to relieve the central
ministries and agencies of some of the work load of implementing a rapidly
expanding program, transferring that work load to the provinces (which would
also have the benefit of making the project more responsive to local needs),
and strengthening the implementation capacity and capability of the provincial
and local entities. It led to the establishment of provincial offices of DAB
(PPSAB), and of PMU and PIU for each Province, starting with East Java.
7.7       PMDU.  Experience had indicated that the managerial, technical and
financial performance of WEs would generally decline after they were handed
over by DAB to their respective LAs, and WEs then changed their status from
BPAM to PDAM and functioned under the control of a Supervisory Board,
comprising the Bupati and some four LA officials. This was because MHA did
not have the necessary capability to oversee and to provide the necessary
assistance to WEs, whi.e CK, even though providing assistance, had thereafter
no legal authority over WEs. Furthermore, these Boards, rather than confining
themselves to policy-making functions, have sometimes involved themselves in
nonboard functions, leading to PDAMs being operated along conventional local
government agency lines, to the detriment of WE's role and performance as a
public utility. These shortccmings in the system have led to the
establishment of PMDU at the provincial level, for monitoring technical,
managerial and financial performance of WEs and also for providing them such
assistance.
7.8       The establishment of PMDU (from the original plan to assign its
functions to the Economic Bureau of the province) and particularly its
staffing was a slow process. Even now, it is still much understaffed. In
spite of these shortcomings, the unit has provided an excellent service to
PDAMs, a credit to the enthusiasm and dedication of the unit's staff. Some of
the assistance provided by PMDU to PDAMs, some of which arising from the
unit's regular visits to the PDAMs, was in the following areas: preparation
of new tariff calculations, and monitoring tariff results; improving data
collection, technical and financial reporting (including the use of SIMPAN
monitoring indicators); monitoring and removing comments and qualifications in
the audited account; and optimization of technical aspects of the operations,
improvement in the organizational structure, and improvement in the working of
the accounting systems. It could be concluded that quite a bit of the credit
for the success in the areas of PDAMs' institutional developments and
financial viability is due to the involvement and efforts of PMDU.
7.9       Within the next few years, a number of BPAMs are scheduled to be
established as PDAMs in the East Java Province. In addition, the assistance
to be provided by PMDU to the PDAMs has to be broadened. In order to carry
out these additional tasks, PMDU would need a larger budget, additional office
space and equipment, additional staff with appropriate qualifications and
experience, and most importantly, a higher status as an organization.
7.10      Training.  DAB's Sub-Directorate of Development (SDD) has the
primary responsibility for training and manpower development in the water



- 18 -
supply sector. Its main functions are to plan and to administer the training
programs which are carried out with consultant support. In the earlier years,
these programs were held mainly at SDD's residential training center in
Jakarta, but later on, and progressively so, some of them were held in the
provinces. The programs, particular y the practical training, were found to
be inadequate to meet the needs of WE staff.
7.11      GOI's crash programs in the early 1980s created a large and rapidly
increasing need for staff in order to meet the urban service targets. It was
estimated that the total sector staff (about 14,000 in 1982) would need to
increase to about 40,000 by the end of the decade, which represented an annual
increase of over 3,000 during the period. Furthermore, not only was there the
need to provide staff training at an average annual rate of 3,000 (compared to
around 700 in 1982), but there was also the need to improve the nature and the
quality of training. In East Java itself, the overall staff training needs
were estimated at about 400 each year through the decade; this included over
700 staff from the project cities and towns to be trained by 1987. [Since
then the targets for urban service have been substantially revised.]
7.12      By 1983, GOI strategy to accelerate, improve and decentralize the
training services had been developed. It comprised: (a) building up local
training capability by training the prospective trainers; (b) establishing
Regional Training Centers (RTCs) and a National Training Center;
(c) preparing, at the center, modules and other training materials for RTCs.
The project training component, which included consultant services financed by
ADAB, was addressed to some of the above problems, providing staff training to
the project BNAs and IKKs.
7.13      The implementation progress on training was slower than expected.
The construction of the complex for the East Java Provincial Training Unit
(PTU) was very slow because of the problems with the foundation of the
structure (and probably also inadequate involvement from SDD). This in turn
delayed the construction of other facilities, thereby postponing the
implementation of the training programs.
7.14      The training component contributed to the establishment in East Java
of the first permanent Provincial Training Unit (PTU) to meet the training
needs of project and other WEs, as well as, and in the long term, the
provincial water sector training needs regarding planning, design,
construction, management and O&M. The central activities were strengthened
and training materials and programs were developed under HRD.
7.15      Since PTU was established, it has provided training to some 1,500
staff. Nearly two-thirds of these staff were from 37 water enterprises in
East Java, the others were from various organizations including water
enterprises outside the province and from contractors. The present training
plans, developed on the basis of the budget allocation, suggests that only
about 40 percent of PTU's facilities are likely to be utilized while, as
indicated earlier, staff of several WEs need and would benefit from
appropriate training courses. In the discussions with PCR mission, PTU
management had agreed to carry out aggressive marketing of its facilities to
the WEs within the province as well as in the region, to develop and provide
appropriate training courses to suit the specific needs of groups of WEs, and
to monitor the benefit derived by the staff from the courses which they had



- 19 -
attended. A question was also raised by the PCR mission as to whether
training as a whole would benefit more if PTU were placed organizationally
under the National Training Center rather than, as it is at present, under
PMU/PPSAB of East Java.
8.   Related Matters
8.1       Poverty Alleviation.  The project contributed somewhat to poverty
alleviation by providing benefits, some of which could be quantified, while
the others would be more difficult to quantify. The benefits are: (a) direct
cost savings (difference between the WE tariff for the consumer at the source,
and the charge from the vendor at the doorstep, but in the project area this
benefit would be minimal because the vendor service is not a common practice;
(b) time saved (where otherwise it would have been lost to haul water from
other soirces) for social or economic activity, which is not easy to quantify;
(c) reduction in the illness associated with waterborne diseases (and improper
sanitation) through increased use of potable water, resulting in savings in
medical expenses and in increased earnings through reduced loss of work time.
The accuracy of illness records, which presumably would be compiled or
maintained by some other government departments might be questionable in terms
of their relevance to the quality of water supply; (d) employment of poor,
unskilled labor, created by the project's physical works; on the assumption
that unskilled labor cost would amount to about 25 percent of the physical
works cost, and a labor rate of Rp 4,000/day, it would amount to about 2
million man-days of employment. Furthermore, water made available for
industry and conmnerce has also generated employment to the poor (but it is
difficult to determine precisely the numbers or level of poverty of those
employed); and (e) upgrading work skills of poor employees through the project
training component.
8.2       SAR had envisaged that about half of the population served by the
project would be the poor, which was also the broad GOI target, with the
service to the poor being achieved largely through wider use of P/Ts. Because
the actual number of P/Ts in use is substantJally lower than projected, it
would be reasonable to conclude that the actual service to the poor, at least
in terms of the number served is lower than that expected, both in absolute
terms and relative to the total population served.
8.3       One of the simpler methods for estimating the number of poor served
by a water project is to assume that all those who are served by P/Ts and also
all the households whose consumption is within the social block are poor. In
some of the project areas, however, ground water (often of dubious quality) is
readily available by means of a dug well, and is being used by the poor, as
well as by the nonpoor (probably for needs other than drinking and food).
Under these conditions the average household consumption of those served by
the project, i.e., the poor as well as the nonpoor could well be within the
social block. Therefore, the absolute number of poor served by the project
could not be readily determined by the above simple methods.
8.4       It is inevitable, where a public utility is required to charge for a
basic service such as potable water supply, which itself has been subsidized
through capital grants, most of the rich and the non-poor members of the
community become invariably the earliest and also the major beneficiaries of
such a service, while those--the very poor and living in outlying areas--who



- 20 -
need such a service the most, are invariably the last beneficiaries, if at
all. Furthermore, it is also in the interest of WEs to provide service to the
rich since the tariff structure is designed to achieve a higher average
revenue per unit of water sold to the rich, and WEs have to achieve cost
recovery targets. The outcome of the Bank project is no different from the
above outcome, except that, particularly in IKKs, a significant proportion of
those served would be from the lower income groups. The "poor" (for
criterion, see below) who were served by the project were lower than the SAR
estimates not only in absolute numbers but also as a proportion of the total
population which has been served.9/ Those living in the outlying areas
continue to depend on their traditional sources for their water supply such as
from dug wells or other such sources, or even (but to a very rare extent in
the service areas of project WEs) on the piped water sold by neighbors at a
high price.
8.5       In order to wean the poor from their traditional sources of water
supply, particularly where the water is of dubious quality, the following
should be considered: (a) a more systematic effort to identify small clusters
of poor households who would be potential customers for P/Ts, and a commitment
from WEs to service the P/Ts; (b) improve the effectiveness of campaigns on
Public Health Education; (c) reduction in the house connection charge in lieu
of labor or spreading the payment period to no less than five years, or both;
(d) reduction in the social block consumption to say 6-8 m3/month (from the
present 10 m3), and modification to the tariff structure with a still lower
tariff for the social block, but a progressively higher tariff for other
consumption blocks; and (e) obtaining or at least seeking effective
participation from all sections of the community at all stages of the project
and, in particular, their support to reduce water wastage and loss. The
incentives for WEs to provide water to the poor also need to be increased,
e.g., the GOI program of providing grants to P/Ts should be stepped up, and
grants should generally be increasingly tied to proper in-service to the poor.
9/   The project was expected to serve about 60 percent of the population in
WE's service area; about 50 percent of those served were expected to be
poor. SAR did not provide the percentage of poor population in the area,
nor the definition or the criteria for determining the "poor". On the
assumption that well over 80 percent of the rich and non-poor would be
served by the project, more than half of the project area population
would have to be poor in order to achieve the ratio of 50/50 between the
rich and the poor which have been served, while arriving at an overall
service coverage of 60 percent. The percentage of population which is
poor must have decreased between 1984 (during project implementation) and
1989, with the growth in the country's economy which is manifested by
16 percent real increase in per capita GDP. In 1988, according to Bank
Report No. 8034-IND of May 11, 1990 (Indonesia, Poverty Assessment
Strategy Report, Page iii, Table 5.4), about 25 percent of the population
in small and medium-size cities was considered to be poor, defined as
those households with a monthly income of under Rp 100,000. If the
25 percent poor is fairly representative of the population in the project
areas, then it is not possible to achieve the 50/50 service ratio with a
60 percent service coverage.



- 21 -
8.6       Project Sustainability.  Overall, the project results have been
satisfactory in terms of the number of people served, of improvements in the
reliability of service provided to consumers, and of the cost recovery of the
WEs, even though these results have been a little short of the corresponding
appraisal targets. Project preparation and design were generally
satisfactory, with the likely exception of: the use of the restrictors in the
IKK systems, which would probably be replaced by the standard consumer meters
in due course; and the inappropriate location of some P/Ts, which probably was
the major cause of their being closed down.
8.7       Adequate production capacity has been built.  Operational problems
have been few and it is only a matter of time before they are rertified, the
top priority being the reinstitution of effective chlorination. Thereafter,
WEs would be in a better position to greatly extend their distribution system
and (with appropriate incentives if needed) increase the number of
connections.
8.8       The institutional development measures taken under the project and
the cost recovery should have a beneficial, long-lasting impact on the project
WEs (as well as on other WEs in the province/country). These measures are:
consolidation of all district water systems under one PDAM (to improve its
institutional capability and financial viability); nationwide as well as
province-wide buildup of staff training capability (to overcome the shortage
of skilled manpower and to ensure, among others, satisfactory O&M of WE's
plant and equipment); implementation of management and accounting systems (to
ensure adequate maintenance of accounts and information); national tariff
policy guidelines (to ensure an adequate cost recovery); and establishment of
PMDU (to monitor managerial, technical and financial performance of, and
provide such assistance to PDAMs).
8.9       Some of the current shortcomings, which are prevalent countrywide,
are likely to continue for some time.  They are:  PDAM's difficulty in
attracting and retaining qualified staff; and the reluctance of some consumers
to switch over on a large scale to WE water supply (this problem is likely to
be overcome with improvement in the reliability of WE supply, and with the
effectiveness of the campaigns on Public Health Education). Notwithstanding
these shortcomings, the project is expected to be sustainable.
8.10      Project Replicability.  The project was, in essence, a pilot, "low-
cost" project for GOI "crash' programs which would eventually provide water
service to well over 3,000 towns in over 200 districts of the country's 27
provinces. It was expected to be replicable and, in addition, to lead to the
communities themselves taking the initiative to extend and improve their water
service. Some of the key measures taken under the project were:
(i) standardized technology; (ii) use of restrictors and water storage
containers in IKK schemes; (iii) installation of P/Ts in order to serve the
poor and thereby contribute towards achieving the overall service targets;
(iv) consolidation of water systems within a district under one entity (PDAM);
(v) emphasis on staff training, including establishment of RTCs; (vi) cost-
recovery policies (revenues to meet O&M expenses and depreciation);
(vii) establishment of PMU and PIU to improve project implementation
effectiveness; and (viii) establishment of PMDU to monitor performance of and
to provide assistance to WEs.



- 22 -
8.11      Of those eight listed measures, the last five (i.e., iv to viii),
which include the key ones such as the cost recovery, were reasonably
successful. Of the remaining three which were less than successful, the first
two are mainly technical and could be overcome without much difficulty. The
lack of success of third (iii) measure, which, according to present
information arose because of the apparent lack of public interest in drawing
water from P/Ts, the reluctance of WEs to build P/Ts, and the inappropriate
location of sites for P/Ts would require a reformulation of strategy to extend
the service to the poor.
8.12      It is not yet clear what actions would need to be taken in order to
reduce the unit capital cost of IKK schemes. Replacement of restrictors by
consumer meters would increase the capital and administrative cost of the
scheme (cost of meter, administration, meter reading, and billing
calculation). More importantly, it would lead to installation of larger
pumping capacity or of distribution reservoirs in order to meet the peak load,
which, in turn would increase capital costs; on the other hand, the use of
meters may result in higher "water sales" revenues. Some effective campaigns
on Public Health Education may counteract the lack of appeal for P/T supply or
for any other of its shortcomings.
8.13      For a diverse and widely dispersed country such as Indonesia,
replication of a particular project, without carrying out major modifications
to suit the circumstances, would be almost impossible. For example, the
"consolidation of water systems within a district" is reasonably successful
partly because of the very high popul.ation density in East Java province.
When the program is extended to provinces and districts with a much lower
population density and where the consumer willingness to pay for water is
lower, the size of the consumer base within an entire district may be far from
adequate for the prospective WEs to achieve institutional self-sustenance and
the present cost-recovery objective. Under these conditions, WEs may require
manpower assistance (for O&M, etc.) and operational subsidies from GOI or from
other sources for extended periods after project implementation has been
completed.
8.14      As stated earlier, in order to achieve GOI urban water service
targets, the sector staff needs were estimated at over 40,000. This amounts
to an average annual increase of over 3,000 staff for several years. The
service targets have been lowered since, but nevertheless there would still be
a need for a substantial number of trained staff. In addition, experienced
staff would be needed for the 27 PMDUs, and the present staffing in PMUs and
PIUs would alsc need to be increased accordingly.
8.15      An alternative approach to be considered for enhancing the
institutional and financial viability is the consolidation of water systems
within several districts, and may be even within an entire province, i.e., a
provincial water supply enterprise. This course of action, which would
increase the scope for career development, is unlikely to be taken under the
present laws of the country (where LAs are responsible for providing water
service in their areas), and also under the GOI policy of "decentralization."
8.16      Other areas which may be reviewed in order to replicate the project
are: (a) effectiveness of campaigns on Public Health Education, and on the
role of potable water supply (vis-a-vis dubious quality of well water) Reports



- 23 -
indicated that funds for campaigns have been curtailed several times;
(b) effective community participation at all stages of project, particularly
at the planning and design stages--to provide valuable information for project
design and for demand forecast. The Bank report states that community
participation, which took place, was rather superficial and infrequent;
(c) the level of water supply service which would be considered reliable, the
quality of water which would considered satisfactory, the accessibility of
P/T, and the price (tariffs as well as connection charges) in order to wean
away the potential consumers from their existing water sources; and (d) the
terms and conditions of employment in WEs, in order to make the service
attractive, and the effectiveness of training to improve O&M efficiency.
8.17      Project Justification.  As was expected at the time of appraisal,
the project contributed to the continuing development of sound institutional
and financial policies in the sector, strengthening sector institutions and
implementing major steps towards financially viable and effectively managed
WEs.
8.18      The individual subprojects were, at the time of their
implementation, the least cost methods for providing the envisaged basic
service. Since several IKKs are now operating in a modified way (e.g.,
consumer meters have replaced FRRs, the schemes operate for only about 12
hours a day instead of continuously), it is not clear whether the subprojects
are still the least cost method for providing the present pattern of service.
With the availability of PLN (power supply), one of the two generator sets and
the fuel tank in several IKK schemes have become redundant.
8.19      The direct project benefits such as improvements in health and
living standards of the population in the project areas would be lower than
projected for the following reasons. First, while the number of installed
HHCs was about the same as the SAR target, the number of installed P/Ts was
less than 70 percent of the target. Furthermore, a significant proportion of
P/Ts have been closed down or are not fully functional and, in the assessment
of the completion mission, the average number of HHs serviced by a P/T is
about 10 (instead of the estimate of 20 in the SAR). Therefore the total
number of individuals served by HHCs and P/Ts would be not more than 500,000,
compared to 700,000 in SAR, (and of those served substantially less than half
are likely to be poor). Second, the closing down or malfunctioning of
chlorinators means that some of the health benefits generally expected from
the use of potable water may not have been fully achieved. In fact, the piped
water supply provided the customer (in his perception) mainly a convenience
over his traditional source, and to less than the fullest extent a superior
product which should not require boiling.
8.20      The indirect project benefits were:  employment created by the
project works, particularly to the unskilled who are invariably poor; the
development of local consultant, supplier and contractor industries; and the
increase in industrial and commercial activities (arising from water
availability) and the employment opportunities they created.
8.21      Rates of Return (RR).  SAR had calculated the economic rate of
return (ERR) using the water charges then allegedly paid by consumers to water
vendors for the first 15 lcd of their consumption, and the average tariff for
the rest of their consumption as a surrogate of benefits. The vendors are



- 24 -
found mainly in the poor areas of large cities, and their charges are
generally several-fold higher than the tariffs. The ERRs so calculated ranged
from 3 percent to 6 percent, The appraisal report for SEJP has also followed
a similar route in calculating the ERRs. Based on the information provided to
the PCR mission, the purchase of water from the vendors was not (and would not
have been) a widespread practice in the project areas, in order to justify the
use of vendors charges as a surrogate of benefits. [In a subdistrict of
Sidoarjo--a suburb of Surabaya--the HHs pay over Rp 10,000 per month for their
basic water needs, which is about 150 liters per day, while their other water
needs are met from the shallow wells which readily yield brackish water; on
the other hand, in the project areas, quite a few customers perceive that
water from their wells is better than the piped water.] Consequently, the
only benefit, other than the tariffs, which should be taken into account in
estimating the RR is the value of the time saved in hauling water by those who
did not have a reliable source year-round near to their abode, or the avoided
cost of digging a shallow well. These benefits would apply mainly to
households.
8.22      Therefore, if only revenues from tariffs are counted as benefits and
where the revenues generated by the enterprise just about equal the cost of
operation and maintenance and the economic depreciation of assets (as required
under the Loan covenant and complied with in most cases or likely to be
complied with in all cases), the internal rate of return (IRR) for the assets,
i.e.. project, must be zero. When the above-mentioned benefits are included
in the computation, the ERR would be positive. Since those benefits are
likely to be relatively small in any case, the ERR is unlikely to be more than
2 percent, if one were able to assess those benefits accurately.
8.23      The primary and perhaps the sole reason for providing the piped
water service was GOI decision to improve the health and living standards of
the population, and not because the project, based on the conventionally
measured benefits, was economically justified. Given the continued practice
to boil water and the present lack of effective chlorination in piped water
supply, the direct health benefits associated with the project area not fully
obvious.
8.24      Handing over BPAMs and Schemes.  BPAM Situbondo and the two
prospective BPAMs Tuban and Tulungangung--these did not have water system. at
the time of appraisal--were expected to be established as BPAMs by 1985.
Situbondo and Tulungangung became PDAMs some six years later (March 1991),
while Tuban is expected to be so in March 1992. Under MOH regulations, a BPAM
is required to be established as a PDAM (i.e., the water enterprise which has
been constructed and managed by DB is handed over to the respective LA) within
five years of the initial operation, by which time generates adequate revenues
to cover operation and maintenance expenses: in practice, however, the
transition period has been longer than five years.
8.25      in para. 6.1 it was stated that there were some delays in handing
over some of the schemes constructed under the project. The delays were
attributed to, among others, reluctance to take over, on the part of the
respective local authorities and their PDAMs. In the case of BNA Krian, where
there was a delay of about a year, the customers received water without being
billed for most of that period.



- 25 -
8.26      Clearly the situation calls for a revision to the existing
guidelines for handing over (and taking over) the schemes or the water
enterprises. It would also be important for PDAMs and for LAs to be
effectively involved during all stages of the project, including design, where
the project is funded by GOI and managed by DAB.



- 26 -
9.   Bank Performance
9.1       The lessons (arising from long delays between appraisal and Loan
Effectiveness, and during project implementation) from the earlier project
were well learned. Issues which arose during project preparation were not
allowed to become obstacles to progress, while they were being satisfactorily
resolved. The timely appointment of consultants and the establishment of PMU
and PIUs resulted in fast project processing--only about a year from appraisal
to Loan Effectiveness--and in enhancing project implementation progress.
Another lesson from the earlier operation led to modification of the cost
recovery covenant; this is more appropriate to the needs of WEs, and readily
understood and easier to observe.
9.2       On the other hand, as in the preceding project, the Bank
underestimated (a) the difficulty of reducing UFW; (b) the transition time
from BPAM to PDAM (DAB records indicate that the average transition time
exceeded five years--the limit stipulated in MOHA regulations); (c) the
effectiveness of competition from water from dug wells, which resulted in
demand forecasts that were too high; (d) the failure of GOI agencies to pay
water bills on time; (e) the time taken to transfer assets; and (f) the
reluctance of WEs to extend water systems to poor consumers. It would seem
that the Bank relied on the covenants to achieve some of the above actions.
9.3       Considering the "demonstration" or "pilot" nature of the project,
where community information and participation had a major role in the success
of IKK schemes, it would have been very useful to have some resources
specifically assigned to monitor this activity on an ongoing basis. The
feedback would have enablcd the authorities and the Bank to take actions
necessary to modify or to adjust to the community's perception of IKK schemes.
9.4       It is normally difficult to assess accurately the number of persons
served by P/Ts. In a demonstration 1project, making such an assessment is more
difficult. Since P/Ts had a critical role in achieving the consumer service
targets, the community involvement in the selection of P/T sites and the
subsequent P/T usage by the community deserved to be closely monitored. In
any case it seems parsimonious to depend almost exclusively on "donated land"
for P/T sites, when the location of the site has such a huge bearing on the
eventual usage of the P/T by the community.
9.5       The project comprised some 50 water schemes.  With the level of
resources normally provided for supervision of a project, it not physically
possible for Bank missions to provide field supervision, much less to visit
every scheme during the supervision missions. Of necessity, therefore, the
missions have to depend on the skill, experience and capability of
intermediaries (e.g., PMU and PIU during project implementation and PMDU
thereafter) to carry out the necessary supervision or monitoring and to
provide guidance. The alternative is to increase the resources for
supervision, which would have to be based on a number of factors, such as the
nature of the project, the number of entities involved and the physical
dispersal of the works. In fact, one of the major achievements under this
project and particularly the follow-on project was the establishment of PMDU.
9.6       Even though there was a change in the Bank's approach to subsector
lending during the project implementation period, the Bank carried out



- 27 -
'standard' supervision missions which were adequate both in terms of number
and composition of staff, and the frequency of visits. This project, together
with the follow-on project which shared many of the common issues and
problems, was well supervised. Bank missions paid adequate attention to all
aspects of the project, including the institutional development and staff
training, and compliance with the requirements of the Loan covenants. The
missions received very good support from the Resident Mission staff,
particularly on local procurement. Quite a bit of the time and effort of the
missions, however, was spent in order to ensure adequate GOI funding for the
project during the budget constraint period. A very useful document which
emerged from the missions was the comprehensive "aide memoire" highlighting
specific actions needed from the parties concerned and by specified dates.
The document became a very useful tool for the respective agencies to take
appropriate actions and for the Bank to subsequently monitor those actions.
9.7       Bank-financed projects often include a training component for the
staff of sector and of the beneficiaries, but not for training of contractor
staff. Where there is a good probability (arising from government objectives)
of having to use weak contractors or those with limited experience, it would
be desirable to have some form of a provision in the training component for
training of contractor staff.
9.8       Arising from the experience from the subject project, the follow-on
project (SEJP) incorporated a number of 'echnical improvements, and also some
improvements in the socioeconomic area (affecting demand, etc.). Further
improvements in this area were made in the more recent projects.
10. Borrower Performance
10.1      GOI budgetary process and budgetary constraints adversely affected
project implementation and imposed adlditional workload on PMU and PIU staff.
The policy to use weak contractors, while it has worthwhile long-range
objectives, required intensive supervision from PIU and consultant staff, and
may have contributed towards less than the desired progress with UFW. In
spite of the increase in the workload of PMU and PIU, created by the above
elements, the project implementation was more or less on schedule; credit for
the good results is therefore due to these units, which received appropriate
assistance from DGCK and DAB. The project provided the training ground for
PHU and PIU staff, some of whom have now been transferred to other provinces
in higher level positions (e.g., project managers).
10.2      On matters of Accounts Receivable and Asset Transfer, the progress
was very limited. Even though these activities were made conditions of Loan
Agreement, one may question whether the appropriate parties were committed to
the necessary actions.
10.3      The lack of commitment on the part of the WEs towards GOI poverty
objectives is also reflected in the charge made by WEs for HHCs. While the
payment from consumers for HHCs under the project ie phased over three years
(or even five), under other projects the payment is phased to not more than
one year. The same lack of commitment is manifested in WEs' indifference to
installing P/Ts, and to extending potable water service in other IKKs.



- 28 -
10.4      The IKK scheme was conceptually an optimal approach for providing
water service at a low cost. The program was, however, unduly oriented
towards meeting predetermined installation targets, rather than achieving the
objective of a reliable and potable supply to the population including the
poor. More importantly, the success of the program required a number of
measures, including raising the awareness of the community as to the benefit
of potable water and the hazards of bacteriologically unsafe water, which were
largely within the domain of the MHA, MOH and MPW. It would appear that MOH
was either not called upon or did not play the significant role that was
required from it in the design, implementation and operation of the program.
10.5      The creation of the Directorate of Planning and Programming (Bina
Program) in 1984 was a useful development. It relieved DAB of the planning
workload. The provincial and local government have also provided useful roles
in project preparation and implementation, but probably not to the extent
envisaged in SAR.
11. Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
11.1      Consultants.  Overall, the consultant services appear to have been
satisfactory, and it has been claimed that the contracts enabled project
management skills to be transferred from the foreign to the local consultants.
The consultants had an important role in the project. Thirty-six contracts
for consulting services (17 local and 19 foreign consulting services, and
representing some 2,700 man-months and nearly 500 man-months of local and
foreign consultants respectively) were awarded under the project. They
amounted to a total value of nearly Rp 19 billion ($14 million equivalent--
nearly half of the Loan amount). Eleven of these contracts were for training
and 20 for project preparation and feasibility studies.
11.2      The training contracts cont-ributed, among others, to the training of
regional trainers, preparation of some 16 training courses, nearly 500
modules, over 400 training modules and also practical training, and to the
development of a set of monitoring indicators. Some of tha training
apparently was not easily absorbed by WE staff. On the other hand, one
training course was not easily absorbed by WE staff, in another, in
retrospect, the training as well as the implementation of the accounting
system was carried out rather prematurely to be of benefit to WE or its staff.
The project preparation contracts contributed to subsequent modifications to
BNA and IKK designs, to an expeditious processing of SEJP (Loan 2632-IND), and
to an important study in UFW. Local. consultants, assisted by foreign
consultants and funded by ADAB and GON, made useful contributions in the
institutional development of WEs.
11.3      Contractors.  The performance of equipment suppliers was acceptable.
Those who supplied mechanical and electrical equipment required considerable
assistance from PIU and consultant staff. Two of the problems were: (a) the
specifications for ICB, which are written in English, cause language
difficulty to small suppliers; and (b) some suppliers lacked the necessary
technical expertise. Experience suggests that mechanical and electrical
equipment should preferably be supplied and installed under one contract, and
greater use should be made of available Indonesian Industrial Standards
Specifications. Overall, the larger national suppliers were able to provide



- 29 -
better "technical assistance," where this was included in the contract. (The
pipe supplier who went bankrupt was an established enterprise).
11.4      Civil Works Contractors.  Some 50, mainly small, local contractors
were involved in the project. Their performance was acceptable; it improved
over time as the experience increased. All contracts were completed, but most
needed intensive supervision, particularly those dealing with the construction
of the water towers at Sidoarjo. Overall, the construction industry is still
in a development stage, with the small contractors having limited skills and
weak management. Training courses were developed under HRDP, and provided to
some contractor staff. As stated earlier, training of contractor staff is
likely to be a necessity for project implementation in the outer provinces and
islands.
12. Project Relationships
12.1      A good working relationship was established between the Borrower
(i.e., DGCK and DAB) and the Bank, as well as at the local level between the
provincial authorities, PMU/PIU and consultants and the Bank. DGCK and DAB
also had a good relationship with ADAB and GON.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1      Project documentation was generally adequate.  Monitoring Indicators
for WEs, which were prepared, were of vital importance, given the number of
enterprises to be supervised; they also made it easier for WE management to
focus their attention to the key elements of their operations/activities.



- 30 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESI
EAST JAVA WATR SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2275-IND)
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name           : East Java Water Supply Project  1/
Loan Number   : 2275-IND
Country        : Indonesia
Sector         : Housing and Human Settlements
Sub-sector    : Water Supply
2.     BACKGROUND
Sector Develooment and Planning
2.01   Indonesia has a population of 179 million in 1990, having grown from
147 million In 1980 when preparation of this projec.. 'egan. In East Java,
where the project was implemented, the populatin In the corresponding period
has increased from 29 million to some 32 million people.
2.02   Since 1969 economic development  In Indonesia has been pursued in
the context of successive five-year development plans. With regard to
water supply, REPELITA I (April 1, 1969 - March 31, 1974) focussed on
production Increases rather than increases in distribution. This emphasis
REPELITA II (closing 1979) again focussed on production, although Central
Government did give assistance in establishing distribution networks.
Furthermore a new development path was begun with the establishment of
semi-autonomous regional water enterprises (POAMs), to separate the
waterworks from other local government agencies. However during REPELITA
II the establishment of these enterprises was limited to major towns and
cities, while the focus of the water supply sub-sector remained In general
on urban services.
2.03 The low levels of urban and semi-urban population served by piped
water system at the end of REPELITA II in 1979 required a fundamental
reformulation of policy for the provision of water supply.  Therefore the
government embarked upon the "Basic Needs Approach" programme. This
programme indicated for the first time specific target groups at which
government investment should be aimed, including (i) small towns and medium
cities and (Ii) poorer areas In big cities and metropolitan areas. The
approach sought to (a) provide essential supplies at low-cost and (b)
provide these supplies as rapidly as possible, recognizing that limited
central government funds required relatively low service levels in order to
maximize coverage.
2.04   From a mid-term review in 1981 of progress in meeting these water
supply targets the Government decided to add a further (crash) program
aimed at supplying piped water by 1985 to about 1700 sub-district capital
towns (The Indonesian term being IKK), ranging in population from 3,000 to
20,000 people. These IKK projects were designed to provide an average
service level of 45 lpcd to about 60X of the project area population,
compared to the 80 lpcd for the BIA prqjects.
Li Oecae known as the Pirst East Java Miter Supply Projectt ifter preparation of the Second East
Java Mier Supply Project (IBRO Loan 2612 of Novesber 27, 1985).



- 31 -
Policy Context
2.05  The national BNA and IKK programme implemented under this project was
therefore distinguished from earlier efforts in that special attention was
given to (i) low cost construction, (ii) rapid implementation and
(iii) focussing design on household needs, especially the poor (hence half
the population were to be served through public taps). The objective of these
programme was to (a) build systems which provide an essential service at an
affordable price, (b) use scarce man-power effectively and (c) to demonstrate
to consumers the benefits of safe water supply so the commur.ity itself will
tike initiatives to extend and improve the service.
2.06 To achieve these objectives, the programmes (especially the IKK
programme) were to (i) use standardized design procedures, (ii) be executed
in the provinces and Kabupatens by local staff to the extent capabilities
there permitted (iii) use goods purchased in bulk and distributed from
regional and central stores, (iv) finance projects by grants which were
then to be given free to the Kabupaten government, and (v) set tariffs
which were expected to cover operation and maintenance (O & M) costs and
depreciation.
Sector Institutions
2.07 The second level Regional Governments are responsible for providing
water supply (and sanitation) services to their communities. The revenue
authority of regional governments 1/, however, does not match their
expenditure authority and in practice, the central government (GOI) plays
a major role. Furthermore, the technical and financial management capabilities
of most local governments are weak, necessitating the central government take
responsibility for planning, implementation and financing (chiefly as
grants-in-kind) many water supply systems which they commission and later
hand over to the local governments. Organization charts for the sector,
MPW, the project and a typical water enterprise are shown in Annex B.
2.08 Within GOI the responsibility for the development of municipal
services is vested primarily in three of its Ministries. The Ministry of
Home Affairs (MHA) Is generally responsible for overseeing the development
and operations of local governments and their enterprises. Those local
governments which can, do take responsibility for development of their
systems. For those which cannot, the responsibility for planning and
engineering of water supply and sanitation services In urban areas is
allocated to the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) Directorate General of
Human Settlement (DOGCK) and in rural areas to the Ministry of Health (MOH).
In 1989 the DOGCK also became responsible for piped water supplies in rural
areas. Other agencies which have an important role In the infrastructure sector
include the National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS) which establishes
development policy and allocates national funds for development projects, and
the Ministry of Finance, which establishes fiscal policies, provides loans and
disburses national funds for development and routine expenditure purposes.
~~~~-                --------           -----
L' r .esie has a four tilr hierarchy of rc7io31, ;   ..;ovNrAents. rh.e ire 2Y orovirces
fnz:t ::zor:ses Levul I. And are subdiviaed `nto 2' level tt governeents fincliding f4
!3e3Ja:ia iuroen aunacloalitiesj and 2S3 .rabuoDtens (regencies or districts)]. .evel 1: f!;ions
ire i.:diviwed into 3.500 thirdtievel adailistritions Or Xec3autans (subdisCricts) mhic. are ir
curn s.;;diviaed into 64,000 fourt level 'Oese' or Xelurahin' (haslets or villages).



- 32 -
2.9    In 1984 (the year after this project began) DOGCK was reorganized and
OSE's implementation functions were divided between two new directorates for
water supply (DAB) and environmental sanitation (PLP). At the same time the
planning functions were assigned to a new Directorae of Planning and Programming
(Bina Program). Bina Program adopted an integrated, cross-sectoral approach to
programming for new projects after the East Java Water Supply Projects. This new
approach was to avoid the imbalanced expenditures of past years and better
respond to local needs, and thereby ensure better local government participation
in development.
2.10 The East Java Province is managed by the Governor who, while reporting
to the MHA, is also the representative of all central ministry activities in the
Province. His management is delegated to a number of agencies; for new water
supply projects primarily through the provincial Cipta Karya and Level I Planning
Board (BAPPEDA Tk. 1). The management of O&M functions of water enterprises (WEs)
was exercised through his Bureau for Promotion of Economic Structure, but in more
recent times it is through the Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit (PMDU),
established with the assistance of Loan 2275.
2.11 On centrally funded projects, DAB sets up WE management and accounting
systems and trains staff In their use; However once in sound operation, DAB have
few legal powers to continue control, which is transferred to the Kabupaten owned
enterprise (PDAM). Whereas prior to this project WEs were organized to serve a
single urban area, WEs under this project where organized on the new concept of
one WE operating all urban water supplies in the Kabupaten.
Experience of Earlier Bank Lending
2.12   Since 1974 the Bank has financed 5 completed and 8 on-going urban projects
in Indonesia (the most important relating to this project are listed in Part III,
Table 1). Two previous loans (Loan 1049 of 1974 and 1709 of 1979) have been made
specifically for urban water supply in 12 cities spread throughout Indonesia,
with the main objectives being (i) rapid provision of safe water supply to
unserved or inadequately served urban areas, t11) enhancing the concept of cost
recovery and financial self sufficiency of water enterprises and (iii) the
strengthening of the institutions responsible for development of water supply.
These objective were to be achieved through (a) establishing semi-autonomous
water enterprises, (b) capital funding of projects by a mixture of loan and
equity (c) investment was for whole systems, including distribution and (d)
strengthening of PDAMs and OSE (DAB) through training and Technical
Assistance (TA).
2.13 The lessons from the above two projects have been taken into account
as much as possible  in the subsequent projects (remembering that loan 1049
was completed in 1982 and 1709 on December 31, 1988). The following matters
in particular were highlighted (as the Bank's Project Performance Audit Report
for Loan 1709, discussed with GO in 1990, points out): (1) implementation
of project physical components generally take longer than planned, mainly
becausq of slow and cumbersome procurement procedures ag,d inadequate preparation,
(1i) distribution system development and service connections gre prone to not
keeping pace with source development, (iii) the difficulties faced by management
as a result of questionable financial data originating from tqe WEs. underlined
by delays in the submission of their auditted financial statements. Further
matters particularly hi3hlighted fron Lcan 1709 included (a) over-optimistic
expectation for reduction in the level of unaccounted-for-water (UFW) and (b)
the need to consider alternative sources of supply in demand projections.



- 33 _
Issues during Project PreDaration
2.14 Issues which were the subject of policy dialogue during preparation
included :
(a)    investment funds/cost recovery/tariffs : it was recognized that to meet
sector targets there would have to be an unprecedented increase in
investment. This highlighted the importance of sound policies on cost
recovery which was seen to be achieveable primarily though the use of
appropriate tariffs. A tariff study was therefore included under
project works;
tb)    decentralization of oroJect implementation : because of the GOI
committment to promoting regional autonomy in development projects (which
is seen to be desirable given the size and geographical dispersion of
Indonesia and because it builds up local capabilities, shortens the
management span and helps ensure that projects are responsive to local
needs) there was to be more local responsIbIItty, and partIcipation than
in previous projects;
(c)    0 & M   the limited lagal powers of DAB where recognized in this regard,
leading to allocation of funds under the project to establish a Provincial
Monitoring and Development Unit under Level I and;
(d)    human resource development : as development of the water and sanitation
sector in East Java and the whole of the country ultimately depends on
the quality of the human resources, substantial development in this area
was targetted. Despite helpful assistance under earlier loans and other
bilateral aid, the programme design required re-evaluation and reform
with more training to be moved to the regions. Funds were therefore
allocated under the project for a revitalization of both-regional and
central training activities.



- 34 -
3.     PROJECT OJECTIV-ES ANO DESCRITIN
Pro.ect Ob.ectives
3.01   The objectives of  the project as set out in the staff appraisal
report, were to :
"(a) provide potable water to about 60X of the population and
commercial and industrial users in 50 cities and towns of East Java.
1/ The Project is expecteo to serve about 720,000 persons. About
half of them are poor and most would have access to potable water
for the first time;
(b) establish POAMs, develop or improve their organization
capabilities and strengthen their technical and financial
performance;
(c) continue Bank assistance to OSE and Cipta Karya and strengthen
their managerial capabilities;
(d) establish a permanent training unit for East Java Province,
strengthen DSE's capability to manage nationwide training, and
assist in the more rapid decentralization of training to othee
provinces; and
(e) provide a vehicle for study and dialogue to promote efficient
and appropriate policies and institutions, including financial
policies, technical criteria and Institutional arrangements, for the
water supply sector."
ProJect Cescri1tion
3.02  The  project had three major components, described in the Loan
Agreement as Parts A, B and C. A detailed description is provided in Annex
A. Part-A was to establish or improve 50 piped water supply schemes in 8 of
the 37 Level II administrative areas of East Java. It included construction
of service connections and public taps, WE offices and maintenance workshop
and replenishment of water works equipment and materials stores for use in
East Java province. Part B covered developing and strengthening project WEs
and.Cipta Karya including DSE (now DAB) while Part C dealt with Technical
Assistance for the PMU/PIU, PMDU feasibility study, other studies to
promote appropriate policies and institutions, and preparing future water
supply projects. All construction was expected to be completed by April
1988 and the loan closed on June 30, 1989. V
 ------------------  --  -   -----------------
In order to sinplify project orevoration jnd improve impleentiation by reducing the cographical
dispeosion experienced under previous Dro;ects. the Covernsent at this tise asked exAernal
agencies to concentrate their efforts on designated provinces. rhus AOB suogorted projects in
Central Java and South Suaatera: the Nherlands. Most Java, North Sueattra and Aceh; tht Oink.
East Java (and the three proviices of Juliaesi, and in Irian Jays).
ZJ for reasons explained in Section 5, t1it closing date #as extended in 1989 in the first instance to
August 31. 1989, then Dec. 31, 1959. It was then further extended to March 31. 1990 and finally
to Oec. 31, 1990.



- 35 -
3.03   The total cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies
was estimated at Rp 35.6 billion equivalent to USS 50.9 million, of which
the direct and indirect foreign exchange component totalled US$ 27.5 million.
Technical assistance for project management/engineering services, training,
institutional development and preparation of other projects was estimated
to.cost US$ 5.6 million equivalent. Part A was to be financed by Loan 2275 and
GOI equity while Parts B and C were to be financed by the proceeds of Loan 2275
and possibly by AIDAB and GON. 100% disbursement was to be achieved by June 30,
1989.
3.04   A notable feature was GOI's intention to provide the works as grants to
the WEs, as opposed to previous Bank projects where the WE were required to borrow
funds.
Prolect Revisions
3.05 Significant revisions to planned works and services under the project are
shown in Annex C. These revisions relate mainly to (i) changes (generally
increased pipelength) resulting from water sources location changes
(ii) additional distribution pipe to improve people's access to piped water,
and (ii1) increased TA for new project preparation. Further discussion of these
revisions Is contained in the following sections.



- 36 -
4. PfJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01   The low level of Potable water supplies prevailing in the 1970's with
the corresponding poor quality of life of a large portion of Indonesian's
population (as evidence by, inter alia, the health statistics) required that
the Government accelerate provision c water through demonstration-type
development projects. Works under Loan 1049 and 1709 were widely dispersed
and concentrated on large towns. When viewed against the background of real
needs, these projects were only trial vehicles for the rapid provision of
water supplies to urban communities. As the decade closed the need to tackle
"front-on' the provision of this infrastructure (particularly in poorer
communities) became a government priority. Immediate action was required,
despite the constraints imposed by shrinking budgets (as a result of collapsing
oil prices) shortages of appropriate human resources and a less than ideal
period of time to fully absorb the lessons of experience of previous projects.
4.02   Thus it was against this background, at a time of overwhelming need to
accelerate water supply programs, that the East Java Water Supply ProJect (the
third Bank loan sought for water supply) was conceived. Table 2 of Part III
details the project timetable.
Exoerience from Previous Pro1ects
4.03   Experience under Loan 1049', from other Government projects and early
stages of the 7 Cities Project (Loan 1709) indicated a number of generally
desirable features of project design which were considered in preparation of
this project.
These included
ti) establishing a Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) close to the project sites as a means to
(a) ease the workload which was threatening to overstretch Cipta Karya's
line organization and (b) help decentralize the GOI's development efforts.
(ii)   reducing the geographical dispersion within a project to certain
kabupatens in one province to aid preparation and implementation
(iii) early recruitment of consultants and reasonable preparation of designs In
advance of loan effectiveness to ensure rapid implementation
(iv)   institutional development activities to keep pace with physical work,
and
(iv)   early attention to difficulties in procurement of material to remove
the most common cause of serious delay in implementation.
Innovative Features of Project Desion
4.u4(a) A PMU and PIU outside the daily supervision of the provincial office
of DAB was established In East Java as the first step in the progressive
delegation of implementation and expenditure authority to the provinces.
This establishment coincided with the establishment of the deconcentrated



- 37 -
MPW organization under "Kakanwil" (the Minister of Public Work's representative
in East Java), through who the project was to receive guidance.
4.04(b)  Further steps were taken to-foster decentralization with the plan
to draw most PIU staff from provincial and kabupaten public works offices and
the exchange of correspondence (in late 1982) between central goverliment, the
provincial government and level II relating to the proposed works, their
ownership and future operation and maintenance.
4.05   Physical works under the Loan were to be constructed only in one
province, East Java , unlike previous loans, and although the loan amount of
US$ 30.6 m was similar to Loan 1109, works were to be constructed in 50 towns,
37 of which could be classed almost as rural. Furthermore, the large number of
project towns necessitated GOI staff become responsible for supervision (again
a departure from previous projects) with Consultants acting in the role of
Advisors.
4.06   Delays experienced in previous project implementation were to be
overcome by the recruitment of consultants to prepare the project and conduct
groundwater investigations some two years before loan negotiation and only
2 years after effectiveness of Loan 1709. Almost simultaneously, detailed
design consultants (under 3 contracts financed from a number of existing Bank
loans) were appointed. Soon after, the Consultant for the IKK Sub-project was
also brought under the project. Despite some difficulties in co-ordination,
this crash-program involving 6 contracts proved successful as detailed 'design
was complete in mid 1983.
4.07   A number of innovative features were also introduced in terms of the
project content and technical aspects. The most significant of these were :
(i)    introduction of a "fast-track" approach to water resource investigation
whereby groundwater drilling during project preparation focussed only on
those towns where doubt existed about the presence of suitable supplies.
(ii)   introduction of the IKK (Ibu Kota Kecamatan) program 1/ into a Bank
financed project, and in particular, use of flow restrictors in the
Systems.
(iii) the extension of the concept of establishing autonomous water
enterprises in larger towns to consolidating management of all systems
in the kabupaten under a single PDAM with cross subsidization of the
IKK towns from the larger and more profitable BNA towns and
(iv)   the bringing to "centre-stage" of institutional development issues
by seeking Bank support for the Human Resources Development Project
(HRDP) and the Institutional Support for the Water Supply Sector
Project (ISWSS). This latter project included studies associated with
establishing (a) a Provincial Training Unit (PTU) (b) a Provincial
Monitoring and Development Unit (PMDU) in East Java and (c) development
and implementation of suitable water enterprise monitoring indicators.
4.08   A further feature, although not a part of the original project
designs, resulted from the introduction of a GOI decree in 1984 (KEPPRES
29/30, 1984) requiring the use of small "economically weak" local
contractors to implement many of the government development projects, and
certainly all work on projects of the nature of the First East Java Water
Supply Project.
t,  see :Jti :.v4   r' A.0x A Aor Je:3i';,



- 38 -
Successes of ProJect Design
4.09   All aspects of the project design have succeeded to varying degrees.
Specific matters related to project content will be examined in following
Sections, but the following aspects of project design provide useful lessons
of experience.
4.10   The PMU at first was largely independent of the provincial office-of OSE
(to become DAB in early 1984), during which time the project was prepared with
little delay. Early and consistent progress was achieved after loan signature
despite the virtual integration of the PMU and the local office of DAB (PPSAB)
in early 1984. So despite the GOI and Bank's preferred approach to project design
for this project being for implementation under the control of separate proJect
units, the project has in effect been managed and implementated by line staff in
the province (except management by DAB's Logistics Section of the ICB materials
procurement). DAB provincial staff (admittedly in a province with previous good
experience of project implementation) have been able to design and implement
a major project, an achievement which augurs well for further deconcentration
and decentralization efforts.
4.11   In regard to effectiveness of the PMU concept, the Project Manager
of the PMU Is given wider powers upon his appointment, but even so, being
outside the line organization, he has little authority to deal with other
government agencies in this capacity. Success, lays primarily in the experience
and quality of staff more than the title given. While the PMU/PIU concept is
clearly appropriate in circumstances where the ability of an agency to address
and resolve implementation problems is weak (such as new or poorly experienced
Orovincial offices), more projects in the future could rely for implementation
on strengthened existing structures. This arrangement could also encourage
development of the Ministry's overall implementation capacity and ensure fuller
exchange of experience within the Ministry.
4.12   Early Involvement of provincial and level II government enabled (a)
most land to be acquired without delay (b) construction of source works
without water rights disputes, and (c) the early co-operation of WEs in
institutional building programmes. The absence of problems on these matters
cleared the way for the good early implementation progress. The role of
Provincial Cipta Karya (PCK) and POAMs in the physical implementation of
the waterworks has however been small because PCK acquired new
responsibilities for building construction In 1984 just at a time when
their role in the project should have been promoted. The low number of PCK
staff is evident from the PMU/PIU staff records over the years (see Table
7, item in Part III). This lack of involvement of provincial staff had
little impact on the project in early years but probably would have helped
to improve implementation of the house connection programme and the start-
up and early hand-over of systems, particularly those constructed for the
PDAMs (see Section 6).
4.13   Limiting works to eight Kabupatens in a single province shortened
the PMU's span of management and restored the advantages to be gained from
the economy of scale, something missing from Loan 1709 works. These advantages
include the impositiop of similar standards, reduction in the number of ICB
documents required, and more efficient use of PIU supervision staff and of
the (limited) consultant advisory staff.
4.14   Preparataion of the project by the PMU/CK, Consultants and Bank
staff was sound, as major changes in objectives or the works were not
required. This preparation is reflected in the quality of the Bank's Staff



- 39 -
Appraisal Report (based on feasibility studies and preliminary designs) and
in the Consultants 1982 Project "Preparat1on" ,leport, both of which remained
relevant reference documents throughout the life of the project. Some aspects
of the 50 towns detailed design (inevitably?) required revision (see 5.03)
while, In retrospect, Consultant Services for preparation of other Projects,
could perhaps have been considered in greater detail during preparation,
given the large increase (from 3 to 29% of total the project costs) during
the project's life.
4.15 The early completion of feasibility/final engineering designs aibed by
the new approach to water resources investigation (4.07) and "borrowing" of
material from central store, proved to be aspects which most contributed to
project successes. The loan was approved in May 1983 and the first civil works
begun in August 1983. This was possible as both detail design was complete and,
although materials were not yet available from project procurement, they were
from CK's central stockpile. Use of stockpiled material enabled work to
continue through 1984 before most project materials were procured, and
although some delay in delivery of material began to cause concern in 1984,
the first arrival in early 1985 enabled good progress to be maintained.



- 40 -
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Loan Aporovailand Effectivenees
5.01   The loan (2275-IND) for US$ 30.6 m was approved on May 3, 1983 and
became effective on September 6, 1983 by which time the first SNA and IKK
project works had begun, financed entirely by GOI. Table 3.C of Part III
show the original allocation of loan proceeds (with a revised and then final
allocation). US$ 20.0 m was allocated for the 50 towns construction, US$ 5.1 m
for training and TA, and US$ 5.4 was unallocated. The delays in effectiveness
of Loan 1709 caused by the reluctance of WEs to participate in equity funded
projects were not present on this project because (i) letters confirming
participation of the WEs had been exchanged prior to negotiation while
(i1) the equity funding question did not arise anyway under the BNA policy as
the works were to be in the form of grants from central government.
Disbursement
5.02   Actual disbursement for the first 5 years of the loan exceeded those
estimated at appraisal. In December 1985 actual disbursement was in fact 54X
more than that estimated at appraisal. This excellent performance is even more
encouraging given that the disbursement profile of the appraisal estimate was
already advanced on the average Indonesian profile at the time. Table 3.A and
the time line at 3.B of Part III illustrate these achievements. This-good
disbursement rate was due mainly to good early preparation, early assignment
of TA Services and availability of materials (see 4.15). Furthermore, there was
a particularly strong desire within the GOI, and especially CK/DAB and the PMU/PIU,
to achieve rapid implementation of this project because of its underlying theme
of rapid provision of safe water supply. This desire also partly explains the
short (4.5) years proposed implementation period. The lengthening experience and
improved capacities within these organizations enabled problems to be recognized
and increasingly overcome without undue delay. The loan closing date was
eventually extended by 18 months l/, but at June 30, 1989, the original closing
date, actual disbursement was 92X of the appraised estimate.
Prolect Revision
5.03   The proJect was appraised from feasibility studies and preliminary
designs, but no significant revision of these physical works were necessary
despite completion of final designs (soon) after appraisal. Completion of
well drilling in the first year of implementation Produced a number of
dry wells, requiring re-siting of some wells with the consequent change in
transmission piping, but only a few variances between planned and actual
implementation could be ascribed to these changes. Additional works however
were added. Annex C describes in detail significant changes and additions
to the systems and gives an estimate of their effect on the final cost of
the systems. Overall, additions to the original design (see 5.04) are
estimated to have added about USS 2m to the expenditure on the systems.
Table 4.A of Part III shows the appraised and actual implementation schedule
and Table 4.8, selected implementation indicators.
J '. ori;iril ciosinf sate Nis June '0, 1939, tit it gas *x;!nzd!1 at 60t's ?cquest in the tirst
i'stnce to August 31. 1X89, th!n Decicber 31, 1939. i r.ird ::ae to Itrch 11. 1990 and fi,ally to
'e:uabe  ', t19s0. All t.ae *:wensions ere reauired *o a.kM " C:unpar ;rt fmnas ro !# securel
1--d final:zation of cinor ia;roesenb:s,



- 41 -
5.04     Target service connection nunimtrs were quickly achieved in most IKK
systems. However, the slow rate of connection in many of the larger BNA system
revealed a lower than expected demand for Connections. To provide greater access
to the distributi'on system, "infill" pipe as well as extensions to more outlying
unserved "urban" areas were therefore undertaken in 1988, 1989 and g990 as GOI
counterpart funds became available and further pipe procured. Implementation of
this additional work (see 5.06 and 5.08), and installing the associated service
connections, accounts for much of the time overun of 60% on this project. Without
these additions the project would have been completed almost to the origina)
schedule, but with house connections numbers considerably less than estimated.
5.05     The considerable increase in TA beyond that considered at appraisal is
the most significant revision to the project. This increase was agreed with
the Bank and resulted from the need to continue project preparation in water
supply in many eastern areas of Indonesia coincidently with shrinking GOI
budgets in the early 1980s. Financing became available as devaluation of the
rupiah freed loan funds (See 5.17). A list of TA contracts is given in Table 6.0
of Part III, while Annex F contain details. This increase in TA requirements
shows that project preparation requires considerable input which can easily be
under estimated or overlooked.
Physical Progress - Variances
5.06     Loan closing was only 18 months delayed, but as mentioned physical
implementation of all works including additions took almost three years
more than expected at appraisal. This additional time was required to add
about 30% more distribution system, and facilitated 18% more service
connections than the total estimated at appraisal (86,000 achieved, 77,000
estimated). Most of these axtra connections were in the residential
category, and have benefitted poorer communities.
5.07     The most striking variation in physical implementation was the
Introduction of a yearly cycle of procurement of civil construction as a result
of packaging, guided by KEPPRES 29/30, 1984 (see 4.08). Maximizing the use of
small local "economically weak" contractors resulted in the the appraisal
estimate of 66 civil contracts (with most to be implemented in 1984/85) growing
to more than 200 (see Table 4.B in Part III and Annex 0). This fragmenting of
implementation was compounded by the allocation process of GOI counterpart
funds whereby requests for budgets generally could not be fully met because of
shrinking national budgets during the 1980s. The increased workload placed on
PMU/PIU staff and consultants reduced somewhat their ability to focus on
other aspects of the project, but to their credit, and that of the
contractors, all contracts were completed without major delay or dispute.
Given the scattered and small scale of works it is unlikely that larger
national contractors would have been able to offer more competitive bids.
However the formulation of larger work packages on the Second East Java
Project in 1988 did demonstrate the advantages of multi-year contracts in
terms of ti) reduced documentation, (ii) improved co-ordination (iii) a more
even standard of work and (iv) accelerated implementation. The local contracting
industry has undoubtedly developed (see Section 8) from the approach taken
as a wide selection of contractors have won bids. However, the increased
supervision required to maintain the quality of work imposes a heavy strain
on the PMU/PIU. This shPuld be considered more fully when staffing levels are
being decided for future.



- 42 -
5.08     A further notable variation was the decision taken to increase the
length of pipelines (almost exclusively distribution system). As noted
(5.04), the lbw rate at which house connection were being achieved in most
BNA town prompted the decision in 1986 to extend the systems to outgoing
areas and add (Infill) within the existing system. The original design
assumption that 100X of people within the service area would use piped
water was found to be incorrect as their choice of source depends on many
factors, among which the most important appeared to be (i) accessibility
and reliability of sources, (ii) cost, and (iii) perception of the benefits
of piped water 1/. The detailed design did not cover all streets or lanes
in the service areas, thsreby making access difficult for some potential
beneficiaries, who, already having traditional shallow groundwater sources
available, were not inclined to seek connections. Infill and extensions,
and more reliable operation of the systems after initial commissioning
(including improved quality), overcame these problems to a large degree,
although the towns of Tulungagung and Krian even in 1990 had not achieved
connection numbers targetted under the project. This experience offers a
major lesson to be learned; that is, if an improved source is to be
provided, It must be more accessible and reliable, less costly, and of
better quality than the existing source. Future project preparation should
in the first place ensure that the true cost of piped water is in fact less
than that from existing sources and then at detailed design stage focus on
aspects of accessibility such as ensuring the distribution system provides
piped water in most roads and lanes ("gang" in the Indonesian langLiage).
5.09(a) Despite total connections exceeding estimates by 23%, the total
number of public taps constructed was some 36% less than planned. Public
taps have generally proved unpopular with many WEs and of little Interest
to many people in the beneficiary towns. Some reasons given are:
(I)      given a choice of drawing water from a traditional source (a dug-
well close to their residence in most cases under this project) and
a more distant public tap, people will choose the former for
convenience
(11)     social stigma attached to drawing water from a public tap
(iii)    public taps provide water for those who cannot afford a house
connection, but that same group are unlikely to appreciate the
benefits related to improved quality of public tap water as opposed
to traditional sources, and
(iv)     WEs find administration of public taps difficult and expensive.
(v)      improving incomes lead people to seek a private connection as soon
as possible, with once patronized taps becoming "abandoned".
5.09(b)  The poor acceptance of public taps prompted the Project to construct
them only as requested, and instead directed their attention to increasing the
number of residential connections, which, because of low connection fees and
sale on credit terms (about US$ 50 for a SNA town connection or USS 15 in an
IKK town), ensure piped water is available to all but the few desperately poor.
5.10     Reasons cited in the past for delay on previous projects, suck, as
(M) insufficient preparatory work, (ii) the inadequacies of OSE/ DAB and WEs
implementation capabilities and (iii) cumbersome procurement procedures, were
reduced on this project largely through early appointment of consultants,
deconcentration/decentralization of implementation responsibility to the
provincial office of DAB and continuing efforts to simplify and rationalize
procurement procedures.
j TA services un3er contract E7, page 14 of Annex F, excained the reasons in derail



- 43 -
Prgcurement
5.11     All 209 civil works contracts were procured under LCB procedures.
This fragmentation (see 4.08 and 5.07) did not cause significant delay but
as mentioned increased considerably the workload of the PMU/PIU and
consultants.
5.12     There were delays, particularly under ICB conditions, in bulk
procurement of materials and equipment, but they also did not significantly
delay implementation as In past projects. Some delays resulted from the
failure of the IKK pipe supplier, PT. Eslon Jaya, to deliver any material due
to insolvency, and to a lesser extent, the long delivery time of both the 6NA
and IKK pumping equipment supplier, due to a combination of a long procurement
process (17 months or more) and supplier difficulties in designing and
delivery of M & E equipment. The effect of possible delays were recognized in
the project design and mitigate by (1) ensuring that all bid documents were
ready tefore or just after loan signing (the first pipe work contract was
advertised in December 1982, the last of the main contracts in October 1983),
(ii) proceeding to tender based on draft quantities, (iii) early submission
of a draft standard ICS document to the Bank for approval, thereby providing
a sample upon which all other documents were based, and (iv) use of DOGCK
stockpiled material of acceptable quality in the first year (1983/84).
Pipe materials were also borrowed from other contracts under the project.
Table 5.1 summarized the 4 types of tendering procedures which must be
followed by GOI agencies for larger contracts and compares planned and achieved
times for the 31 materials and equipment contracts awarded under the project.
(19 of which were ICB and accounted for 77% of disbursement against goods).
Annex E lists details of each of the 31 contracts.
Table 5.1
':tiris o' P!annee aild Av.ievel 7,teS 'o- re.neri'j laerei3l a,1 ET|i0ene: 401c
enl,erir  '- :r    io. Tencer  Typical Average  -3erfn ^n A
;ocea'.re    Viaje ;ir.*;e  Package  a/  Acnieved   troical lmx.  tar;.t ;
;o. lillicn)       (aontn'   ( on,sh s )(montns)    ( 5s)  ( o  tt-si
A     ) 3,000      1      13 to IS  2 0     i    .i   .4
a    :.O0  < 3,Q0O  !     1  to iS  17      '           i
c C    "O 'O 1,00    6    3IS               !     ;     .
0       :5OO      i3      6tc        4                 5. '
................... ...................... w....... ....... ........ ......... ;......
/   fypicJ   all 311lnnfesian FrO,!c:S icc:r:i.7; to Marla 3aik docOienr t:t.tld Os:s it Jr:aec:
:.lo2,Ieftatic,   Cuses and .u?eties .  Ocexar LeJ3.
p1 'tu .4''I- E f2r tietail :f all ;o.rracts.
c  -.Rs rir;ets azoly especially !o 1C0 c:ntricts aid result fr:3PPrcS YEPPi 3 J 3,ir :.t
'tauz r3efnt rC suopi: loNest :ender (i f * ;c !00  i : $.tEAVEG nd li:ri. g ;.'t cuc o. :2t:,rjc:s
v I.C: *tS C.0in Rp S00 * to ee wade at PliC!U leve' i. *it orovince.
5.13   The long periods between advertisement and award of contract have
for some time been recognized as a major issue affecting implementation of
projects In Indonesia. Therefore efforts are continuing outside of orojects
such as this to eradicate this problem. For example under Loan 2258 of 1983
(Public Works Manpower Oevelopment Project/MOP-I) considerable review of
procedures was undertaken culminatinglin a series  of GOI ministerial
directives. Under the Institutional and Development Training Project (IOTP)



- 44 _
(1989) the MPW are seeking to further improve the efficiency of procurement.
Standard procedures for procuremept will be introduced and related manuals
prepared for the various users. In developing the documentation and procedures,
past and on-going experience with public procurement procedures in Indonesia
is being taken into account. Various other improvements in monitoring and
training are also planned to be introduced in all levels of Government.
5.14   A number of other experiences of materials procurement deserve noting.
Firstly, all 19 ICB contracts were awarded to locally based suppliers,
indicating that, at least for contracts of up to about UO$ 2 million, foreign
supplies are unlikely to be competitive against locally based suppliers.
Secondly, the procurement process using LCB procedures in the latter part of
the project demonstrated that the period between advertisement and award can be
drastically reduced (to between one and two months) compared to ICB procedures.
5.15   Thirdly, the shift in project design to implementing decentralized
projects involving many similar, but not exact replica schemes, brings new
problems related to logistics which must be addressed at PIU level, rather than,
as in the past, by DAB's experienced Sub-Directorate of Logistics. To explain
this by way of example, the 37 IKK schemes all required proportional chlorine
dosers of a similar, but not exact design, reflecting the fact that schemes
were either to deliver 2.5 l/sec, 5.0 1/sec or 10 1/sec. Bulk procurement
contracts delivered much of the chlorination equipment partly assembled with
the need for logistical staff to then ensure the correct components were
handed over to the contractors for installation, a formidable task considering
logistic.l staff background, which is generally not that of professional
engineering. The lessons to be learnt in these matters are (i) project design
should specifically consider support to logistical systems and staffing and
g11) that, particularly for mechanical and electrical items, contracts that.
specify both supply and installation are to be favoured after due regard to
quality considerations. Furthermore the exceptionally long lead time of
mechanical/electrical supply contracts indicates these contracts should be
the first tendered.
Costs and FinancinQ
5.1fi The total cost of the project was Rp 64.5 billion, which is an
increase of about 80X over the appraisal estimate of Rp 35.6 billion. These
figures represent the true costs as they have been calculated by conversion
of the project expenditures to Rp equivalent using the exchange rate on the
date of the transaction. This is in accordance with the method applied in
the annual audits of the project accounts by the state audit agency, BPKP.
Table 5.A of Part III and Annexes H and I provide a detailed analysis of
costs, from which have been extracted the figures in Table 5.2.



- 45 -
Tablo 5.2
Summary of Costs I/
Component                 Cost (RD billign)          % of oroiect
Aporaisal    Actual      Aporaisal    ActuaI
Waterworks Cosntruction            29.0         32.4          81           50
Intitutional Oevelopment            3.2          8.1           9           13
Other Project Preparation            1.1        19.2           3           29
Project Management                  2.3          4.8           6            7
Total Rp billion                    35.6        64.5         100          100
US) m equivalent                   50.8         49.9
UJ Sue of coluSns Bay not equal rJt;lS due to rounding.
5.1t7 Table 5.2 indicates that the increased cost of the project in Rupiah
terms Is due mainly to increased allcocation to the preparation of other
projects, with its share ol the total project costs increasing from 3X at
appraisal to 29X. Table 5.A Part III contains detailed comments and reasons
for variation of each components costs. In general the increases in all
components except project management can b. attributed to an expansion in
the scope of works. This expansion was financed by the additional Rupiah
made available undor the loan as the value of the Rupiah weakened against
the US$, plus bilateral assistance from the Governments of Australia and
tne Netherlands.
5.13   Financing for the project, estimated and actual, is shown in Table
5.3 (extracted from Table 5.B of Part III). Increased expenditure on
institutional development efforts was funded mainly by the Outch and
Australian Governments, the latter also funding about US$ 2.5 m of project
preparation work In Irian Jaya under the aborted Regional (Secondary)
Cities Project. TA And consultant inputs are examined in more detail in the
section titled "Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Supplers'.
Table 5.3
Project Financing
Sourca                      Current USL m                of Iotal
Appraisal    Actual      Appraisa-   Actual
Loan 2275                          30.6         30.6          60           61
Loan 1709                             0          1.8           0            4
Loan 2632                             0          1.5           0            3
GO!                                20.3         10.5          40           21
Australian Government                  0         4.5           0            9
Netherlands Government                 0         1.0           0            2
Total                              50.9         49.9         100          100
Cgmmissionin@  and Hand-over of Part A Systems
5.1Q     The first IKK and SNA s5stems began operation in 1985 and 1987
respectively. All commissioning of IKK systems was completed in 1987 and
most SNA systms by the end of 1988, but some (SNAs Krian, Sidoarjo, tigunut
and Mojosari) were *ffe tWvely cempleted in 1990. Extension of distribution
pipework in each FY year after 1987/88 was also accompanied by certain



- 46 -
remedial work such as re-development of wells, replacement of control
equipment and repair of pumps and pipework. These works were undertaken to
correct deficiencies and improve the operational performance of a number of
the systems and to especially enable hand-over of systems (in Kabupatens
Sidoarjo, Mojokerto and Sampang).
5.20     The first WE to take-over management of project systems was PDAM
Kabupaten Malang in August 1987. Most systems are gravity supply in this
Kabupaten. The last WE was POAM Sidoarjo in July 1990. In general, gravity
systems began producing water well before pumped systems and have proved
more trouble-free. Delay in hand-over of systems to PDAMs Sampang, Sidoarjo
and Mojokerto were caused by (,) the POAM's reluctance to assume
responsibility for systems they perceived would have excessive operational
difficulties or costs, particularly pumped systems (neither PDAM Sidoarjo
nor Mojokerto had experience with this type of system), (ii) the lack of
a procedure clearly agreed between the WEs and project with regard to
commissioning and acceptance of work, (iii) shortfall in design production
(for example, a low yielding well at Mojosari, troublesome welihead
pipework at Krian and a broken transmission main in IKK Robatal, Kab.
Sampang), (iv) excessive leakage in transmission and distribution pipework
(Sidoarjo), (v) insufficient OCM and "as-built" documents in all three
Kabupatens, and (vi) poor water quality (1 of 3 wells at Sidoarjo, and
turbid water in the wet season from a spring at IKK Ketapang). Such matters
were overcome through implementation of new or remedial work contracts in
the years 1988, 1989 and 1990. This enabled full hand-over in 1990; but the
overall effect has been to delay the time when full production under the
project could be achieved by approximately two years (see section 6).
5.21     The difficulties experienced in fully commissioning a few of the
systems is not considered exceptional. Most of the 50 systems were in
fact brought into production without major trouble. The deficiencies arose
through a combination of circumstances, probably the most important being
(I) unforeseeable declines in water source quality and quantity, (ii)
difficulty in arranging remedial work once contractors have left the site
or the contra,t maintenance period had expired, and (iii) the limited M&E
maintenance experience of personnel involved in the project. Efforts to
remedy deficiencies were delayed in some cases due to (i) the attention of
key staff being focussed on the Second Project at this time, (ii) the time
necessary to gain budget approval to undertake further work and (iii)
difficulty in persuading contractors to return to site long after their
responsibility for contract work had expired. Similar commissioning work on
the Second Project after this was better because (i) the maintenance periods
of most contracts were still valid and (ii) the lessons of experience from
the first project, highlighting the need for.a concerted commissioning
effort, were clear.
5.22     The reluctance of the 3 POAMs to take over work constructed on
their behalf also probably has its origin in the reduced role these parties
played during construction, and high expectations of POAMs (often felt by
others to be more than is realistic) regarding the quality of workmanship
and performance of the systems upon commissioning. The experience
highlights one of the reasons for current increased deconcentration/
decentralization efforts; that being, that if local aspirations are to be
more fully met, level II governments must be more involved in and
responsible for the provision of thei1 infrastructure.



47 -
Loan Asreement Covenants
5.23     Table 7 of Part III summarizes the status of selected loan covenants.
Covenants in Section 3 of the Agreement are especially relevant to implement-
ation. The Government considers that all of these covenants directly related
to execution of the project have been complied with, although the need for
continuing attention to those requiring WE action on tariffs and bill
collection (3.10(a) and 3.10(c)) is recognized. Despite tariff studies, low
tariff levels and poor bill collection remain as prime-areas of concern for
the central Government agencies responsible for overseeing WEs. As noted in
the Table, implementation of the studies for (i) tariffs, (ii) bill collection
and (iii) IKK design, covenanted under Clauses 3.10(a), (b) and (c) the loan,
were completed and their findings considered. Furthermore review of the
training program (see Annex G) indicates this covenant under Clause 3.11(a)
was also amply complied with, given the significant expenditure, broad
scope and continuing attention paid to training under the project.
5.24     BPAMs Situbondo, and Tulungagung (but not Tuban) have just achieved
POAM status requird by covenant 3.09.



- 48 -
S. PROEJET BESULTS
A. uperatlonal AsRDCts
General
6.01   Direct benefits as a result of this proJect have been gained through
substantial increases in (i) the quantity of water produced, (ii) the
number of service connections and public taps (thereby improving access) and
(iii) the quantity and quality of drinking water sold. Table 6.1 (extracted
from the monitoring indicators in Annex M) provides a summary of operations
results.
rncreased Production and Sales
6.02 (a) 6 of the 8 WEs under the project were In operation before 1983,
but their production and sales were small. Production under the project has
increased 4 fold. The total production estimated for 1988 (the projected first
full year of operation) was 24.8 million m3 while that in 1990 was
32.0 million m3. Actual production in 1988 was 17.1 million m3 and in 1990,
25.9 million m3. The Implementation delays (see 5.20) and slower than expected
rate of making house connections were the reasons for this lag. With the
systems now fully operational it is expected that production in the coming
years will exceed appraisal estimates.
6.02 (b) Water sales are lagging appraisal estimates by about two years.
The 1988 and 1990 estimates were 21.0 and 27.1 million m3 with the actual
1988 and 1990 figures being 15.0 and 20.1 million m3.
6.03     Continued production of water from existing (old) sources explain
in part the production in excess of estimates in some enterprises. However
the BNA schemes of Kab. Malang, Madiun, Mojosari, Sampang and BNA Krian
(SidoarJo) are probably already operating at their full design capacity,
which was based (in 1981) on a 1985 design horizon. The very low production
figures so far for Kab. Sidoarjo reflect the delayed take-over of systems
in this Kabupaten but it Is expected that 1991 figures will also indicate
actual production exceeding theoretical design (or rated) capacity. Most
other SNA systems are expected to soon reach their design capacity for
production. Therefore the need for further expansion of the systems will
soon arise.
Increased-Connections. and Pooulation Benefitted
6.04     The population benefitting from piped water under the project WEs
is estimated to have risen from about 159,000 in 1983 to about 631,000 in
1990. This estimate is based on the number of connection existing In SNA and
IKK systems in 1990 multiplied by design populations associated with-each type
of connection. Table 6.2 provides details-by enterprise. The total appraisal
estimate was 721,000. The shortfall (12%) is a consequence of the actual public
tap numbers being some 36X less than estimated (see 5.09 for reasons). However
Is possible that the actual number benefitting maybe similar to the appraisal
estimate because (M) production and sales are not significantly less than
estimated, (ii) the exact number of persons drawing water from each connection
is unknown and (III) most non-domestic connections provide water for domestic
Use.



- 49 -
TABLE 6.1
Selected Operating Results (Estimated vs Actual)
....... ....    *-*--.. *-----*... ---............
........ ------*:............ ...................... ..............................................................
1983                      1988               1989               19"0
....                      ....       .       ....               ........ .....
Act               Est    Act         Est    Act          Est    Act
~~~~..... ...  ... ....          ....    ...   . ...    ...
KODYA NADIUN
1. Ins. capacity (ips                               75                126    105         126    195         126    173
2  Water production (000 *3)                      2000               3560   2854        3730   3408        3869   3473
3. Water sales (000 *3)                           1320               2960   2075        3090   2315        3210   2431
4. UFW t                                            34                 17      27         17      32         17      30
5. Connections                                    2781              11150   7545       11680   8958       12170  10530
6. Population served (000)                          16                100      43        103      51        106      52
7. WE employees                                     97                 93    109          93    109          96    110
XAB. MALANG
1. Ins. capacity (lps)                             106                208    309         208    314         208    314
2. Water production (000 e3)                      2300               6670   7384        7500   9743        8580   959S
3. Water sales (000 *3)                           1840               5670   5913        6380   7795        7290   8164
4. UFW %                                            20                 I5      20         15      20         1S      15
5. Connections                                    5260              22690  22304       25340  26897       28930  28356
6  Population served (000)                          80                215    189         246    222         274   .245
7. WE employees                                    120                2!6    199         241    214         275    215
KAB. MOJOKERTO
1. Ins, capacity (lps)                              53                 88      78         88      94         98    108
2. Water production (000 u3)                       690               1700   1265        2180   2644        2670   4716
3. water sales (000 *3)                            480               1450    784        1850    839        2270   1039
4. UFW %                                            30                 1S      38         1S      68          15     78
S. Connections                                     303               5660   1309        7180   1390        8800   3533
6. PvPulation served (000)                           6                 53      14         68      14          81     29
7. WE enployees                                     26                 57      51         72      65         88      70
KA8. SANPANG
1. Ins, capacity (lps)                              82                 98    122          98    135          98    147
2. Water production (000 e3)                       957               1600   1874        1829   2252        2040   2543
3. Water sales (000 *3)                            766               1360   1156        1550   1384        1730   1522
4. UFW S                                            20                 15      38         15      40          15     40
5. Connections                                    2766               5840   4481        6620   5126        7390   5286
6. Population served (000)                          29                 55      45         63      58          69     58
7. WE employees                                     44                 58      74         66      85          74     85
KAB. SIDOARJO
1. Ins, capacity (1ps)                              68                119      68        119      68        119      68
2  Water production (000 m3}                        53               3830    415        4350    307        4700    374
3. Water sales (000 .3)                           2441               3260   2888        3690   2862        3990   3032
4. UFW                                              1S                 15      24         15      24          1S     18
S. Connctions                                     3857              13590   6473       15170   7006       16760  16122
6. Population served (000)                          20                130      3S        148      37         160     39
7. kE employees                                     97                136    109         152    108          168    110
(tab6-1/tab-1/amcl-c)
.5~~~~~~~ 
is



s 50 -
TA8LE 6.1 (Cent'd)
Selected Operating Results (Estimated vs Actual)
.  ......................... .. ......... ............. .........
...... .......... ... .... . ....... ............ . ..................... ............ ......................... ..... ......    .
1983                      1988               1989               1990
.. ..                    ---                ----.             . ....
Act               Est    Act         Est    Act         Est    Act
KAS. SITUBONDO
1. Ins. capacity (IP                                55               116    113         134    113         134    117
2  Water production   00 *3)                       831              2300   1347        2750   1736        3510   1750
3. Water sales (000 ,3)                            512              1950   1033        2340   1332        2980   1400
4. UFO t                                            38                 15     23         15      23         15      20
5. Connections                                    1841              7560   (644        9080   5938       11600   7421
6  Population served (000)                           8                 66     32         82      39        100      41
7. WE employees                                     44                76      61         91      70        116      77
KAS. TUBAN
1. Ins, capacity (lps)                               0                60.    88          60      88         60      88
2  Water production (000 a3)                         0              1710    794        2020   1178        2540   1236
3. Water sales (000 *3)                              0              1460    557        1710    812        2160    867
4. UFW %                                                               15     30         IS      31         IS      30
5. Connections                                       0              6190   3283        7050   4435        8850   5751
6  Population served (000)                           0                 62     26         74      33         87      36
7. WE employees                                      0                62      55         71      71         88      80
KAB. TULUNGAGUNG
1. Ins, capacity (Ips)                               0               120    III         120    III         120    125
2  Water product ion (000 *3)                        0              3420   1128        3750   2389        4090   2227
3. Water sales (000 *3)                              0              2910    606        3190   1344        3480   1670
4. UFW t                                                               15     46         15      44         15      25
5. Connections                                       0             12410   5853       13550   8451       14840   9109
6. Population served (000)                           0                114     52        126      66        136      79
7. WE employees                                      0               124      70        136      86        148    117
.......... ..................... .. ... .. ... ... .. .. . ........ ............. ... ...................
TOTAL/AVERAGE
1. Ins, capacity (Ips) - Total                     439               935    994         953   1118         953   1140
2  Water production (000 .3) - Total              6831             24790  17061       28100  23657       31999  25914
3. Water sales (000 s3) - Total                   7359             21020  15012       23800  18683       27110  20125
4. UFW S -Average                                19.63               15.3   30.8       15.3   35.3        15.3   32.0
5. Connections - Total                           16808             85090  55892       95670  68201      109340  86108
6. Population served (000) - Total                 159                795    436        910    520        1013    579
7. WE employees - Total                            428               822    728         922    808        1053    864
...................t........................................b.6....../......./.............. .-./.t....... ..
(tab6-1/tab-2/ascl-c)



- 51. -
TABLE 5.2
Number of Private Connections, Public Taps and People Benefitted 1/
. ...... ........... .... ....... .......... ........ ................ ..
...... .......... ... ..... .... .. . .......... .............. . .. ........................
Project WEs            Private Connections              Public Taps   :         People Bonefitted
~~|. .. ...... ..  ......................................... .. .............. .
I.
'Appraisal  Actual    Actual :Appraisal  Actual          Private      Public      Total
.Estimate     by         by   :Estiuate  Installed: Connections         Tap
PIU  2/   WE  3/ 
..........................................................................................................
Project IKKS in
1. Kab. Malang              2150       2210         0        1t8        108          22100      21600      43100
2. Kab. Nojokerto            1080       1089         0        54         54          10890      10800      21690
3. Kab. Sampang              1260       1181         0        63         63          11810      12600      24410
4. Ktb. Sidoarjo             1620       1335         0        81         81          13350       18200     29550
5. Kab. Situbondo            1620       1552         0        90         90          15520      18000      33520
6. Kab. Tuban                 900        910         0        45         45           9100       9000      18100
7. Kab. Tulungagung           900        900         0        45         45           9000       9000      18000
Sub-Total       9540       9171         0       486        486          91710       97200    188970
Other systems in :
1. Kab. Malang              12651     11482      9404        287        324         108607      64800    173407
2. Kab. Nojokerto            2132       2132         9        42         42          11133        8400     19533
3. Kab. Saopang              1864       1864         0         54        90           9693       18000     27693
4. Kab. Sidoarjo             8420      '7590      3340        180          I         56836        1400     58235
5. Kab. Situbondo            2689       2689      1339        41         32          20946       6400      21346
6. Kab. Tuban                3750       3750      1091         80        59          25173       11800     36973
7. Kab. Tulungagung         10600       7870       339       290         60          42667       12000     54681.
8. Kodya. Nadiun             1272       5200     2549         209        18          40295        3600     43895
Sub-Total      49384      42577    18071        1183       632         315310    126400    441170
T o t a 1          58924      51754    18011        1669       i118         407140    223600    630740
__. .......... ....... .......... _............ ........... ... ............ ..... -................ - ---------------r
1/ all figures are incromental, 2/ at DOc 31, 1990. All are assunmd to be domestic connoctions,
3/ total for all towns in WE.
ltubl-2/aucl-c1



_ 52 -
Improved Water Qualitv
6.05     Before the project most beneficiaries obtained their water from shallow
wells close to their residence. Health statistics on the decrease in incidence
of diseases arising from water quality between 1983 and 1990 are not readily
available but i study 1/ in 1984 indicated at least 60X and probably more of
traditional water sources in the' towns studied were bacteriologically unacceptable.
Regular testing is now undertaken and results are mostly satisfactory, but
the general consensus is that people still boil their water, indicating
that water quality at the consumer's tap is sometimes not satisfactory. However
people often continue to boil water out of habit even when the supply is "safe".
Water quality problems in the distribution system were found often to originate
from insufficient flushing of the mains (and sometimes mains which could not
be flushed anyway through lack of flushing facilities, for example on "dead-end"
mains). The focus in the past has tended to be on providing quantity of water
rather than quality, as quantity was seen to have the greater influence on
Improved health. At present the quality of water produced or sold is not
monitored directly in the SIMPAM Indicators, but it will be as the focus
shifts to quality.
6.06   The Sanitation Identification Study Report Ut984) concluded that many
of the practises associated with water supply (and also with sanitation and
waste'disposal) were not satisfactory In typical East Java towns. Evldence of
relatively high case loads of preventable infectious disease were found in
every area. It was concluded that more than 0l and possibly 20x of the case
load at health clinics was due to causes directly attributable to either
insufficient water, poor quality water, exposure to contaminated water or
inadequate sanitation. Benefits will have been derived from a safe supply
under the project as the enteric diarrhoeas group will have been reduced
considerably. Futhermore, elimination of water shortages and the seasonal
use of unsafe sources will have reduced skin and eye Infection diseases.
6.07     Although boiling of water taken from the distribution system may
still be common, there have been few source quality problems experienced in
the 50 systems. Exceptions were (i) a well at BNA Sidoarjo, (ii) saline
water in one at IKK Sooko (iii) turbid water in the wet season from the
spring at IKK Ketapang and (iv) high iron levels in 2 IKKs in Kab.
Tulungagung, Tests on the waters from these sources were considered
acceptable during investigations for design, but the quality deteriorated
during implementation. A new source has been recently constructed at Sooko,
*a package treatment plant provided at Ketapang and aeration facilities in
Kab. Tulungagung. A new well will be provided at Sidoarjo. The shift in
policy during project preparation to maximize the use of groundwaters has
been beneficial as It minimized treatment needs and related difficulties.
The most common treatment is now precautionary chlorination, although even
the actual operation of many chlorinators by WE staff in a continous manner
has been erratic. WE staff cite various reasons for not operating equipment,
ranging from people "not liking the taste" to faulty equipment. This matter
impacts especially on IKK consumer water quality where intermittent operation
of source works makes chlorination all the more important. The conclusion Is
that deep wells sources are particularly appropriate in ensuring higher quality
water as they minimize the need for high levels of operator skill required to
maintain even simple treatment works.
*         _l - -                  _ -  ___                         ________________________ - ---- --- - ---------
I/ Sanitatc.n l'entification Study qeport, August 1984 by Sir  iacOonald and Partners 4siz is part
of oFc,3ritil of the Second Efast lava ISRO mitcr Su;pJy Project.



- 53 -
Unaccounted for Water (UFW)
6.08   Ttie reported percentage of unaccounted water Is higher than was
foreseen at appraisal. Unaccounted for water (UFW) levels were expected to
fall in the project towns that had existing systems, and to be no more than
15x of production for new systems. The levels of UFW were not a major issue
during project implementation. However it has risen to a position of prime
importance, not only for towns Involved under the project, but for all WEs
in Indonesia. The reasons for high UFW levels in new systems can be many.
The following observations are made based on the project experience
(1)    the figures provided by the WEs in most cases must be regarded as
indicative, one reason being that standard IKK systems do not
meter water to allow UFW to be computed. However in the absence of
any other calculation, the figure are considered to fairly reflect
the actual situation in most systems.
(ii)   in theory new pipework can be constructed and tested to a standard
which results in insignificant leakage. All installation
specifications call for this. In practise this standard of
installation Is rarely attained in Indonesia as it requires a level
of supervision  not ordinarly provided. Again, the technical
specification requires every pipeline to be hydrostatically tested
and evidence of that testing to be produced and retained. However
testing of the entire system (including fittings and service
connections) is difficult, and probably impossible. Nevertheless
efforts continue to ensure the maximum use of hydrostatic testing.
Given the high percentage of leaks observed on service pipe 1/,
extending testing to this pipework immediately after installation
and before final approval is given to the Contractor is being
considered. Furthermore the use by Contractors of trained and
experienced plumbers on this work Is being encouraged,, and training
courses have been developed and are beginning to be implemented as a
prequisite for Contractor Involvement in pipelaying contracts.
(iii)  the quality of materials Installed, although nominally complying
with Indonesian or International standards, can differ considerably
in tolerance, particularly if pipe and fittings are mixed from
different suppliers, so that for instance, a pipe produced by one
manufacturer may have an outside diameter on a negative tolerance
(smallest diameter) while the socket fitting may be at the positive
tolerance (giving a socket of the largest internal diameter
permissible). Upon joining the result is less than ideal. Similarly,
when repairs to damaged service pipes are made, fittings for ISO
dimension UPVC service pipe installed under the project are not
always readily available in the market (where inch series fittings
seem to predominate). The result is that the repair made maybe
praiseworthy for its ingenuity using makeshift materials, but is not
ono conducive to maintaining a sound pipe system.
/ The Surbaga UFM SUy L*der Loin 2652-INO found that 50o of leaks I tCected in tnt Surabaya sste
;a'e or service ;ior<.C:2iissioning of 8NA schemes in 'iich lany cornections had been fay, 'ry'
31so retealtd thit scat :tems could be Jttributed to service cennec:ion piiea or the clu.O sm10:i oa
Adi4 P8i7 0e.



- 54 -
(iv)   even the best constructed pipe systems are subject to deterioration
and damage, which causes leakage, sometimes obvious, but often not.
Unless'appropriate provision is made for easily measuring and
recognizing changes in water losses, operational staff are unlikely
to have the resources to respond. These provisions have not in the
past been highlighted in design of systems. For instance the
standard design of the IKK towns required no production metering and
the restricted flow devices do not allow the total consumption to be
calculated. Larger BNA systems provide this essential metering, but
even so, the next prerequisite of obtaining accurate metering and
establishing data gathering procedures are generally overtaken by
other priorities within the enterprise.
(v)    "administrative" losses often account for high levels of water loss.
It is in this area that big improvements with a minimum of investment
in "high technology solutions" are foreseen.
6.09   The lessons of experience regarding UFW have already been learnt.
The PTU in East Java and the Bekasi training centre both have practical
leak detection facilities established, and practical courses were developed
under HRDP II in 1986/87. The PMDU's have also been developing special
programmes in the provinces and a number of projects are being formulated
with the assistance of the Bank and the ADB. UFW levels are monitored in
the quarterly monitoring Indicators provided by the WE's under SIMPAM and
all new designs are required by DAB to specifically identify leakage control
zones in the distribution systems and to provide suitable equipment.
Standard assessment of existing WEs using the WEPA (Water Enterprise
Performance Assessment, a HROP product) highlights performance of basic
procedures such as regular pipeline patrolling and valve maintenance.
IKK Ooeration
6.10   This radically different planning and design approach under the IKK
programme was in recognition that a bold approach was required if significant
improvements in coverage were to be achieved. Hence the size of the national
programme (2000 towns), short (10 year) time scale, and standardized approah
(due to constraints on availability of professionally and technically skilled
staff). The IKK programme is to be regarded as the initial launching stage of
water supply development in smaller urban and semi-urban communities nation-
wide. Consequently continuing attention in successive projects has been
focussed on improving their operational performance.
6.11   Demand for connections in the IKK systems was (unexpectedly) high,
but both capital and operating costs have proved to be high and income less
than expected. WEs are therefore reluctant to operate the IKKs for long
periods. A comparison of actual IKK operating costs with BNA costs is shown
in Table 6.2; details are given in Annex J. Operating costs are also given
if a charge based on amortisation of capital cost at 9% over 30 years was
applied. The high IKK operating cost (Rp/m3) result from the low production
of the systems, which were designed for 24 but only operate 12 hours per day.



- 55 -
Table 6.2
Actual Operating Costs, S lected IKK and ON Systms
___  _  ___    _     _   __ _  __  _ _____ -_____ ____-  _ 11  -     ------_
TariLf            Ooeratinu Costs (Ro/m3)
(Rp/m3)        Direct            Ic    aSa
Charae A/i
IKKs               121            130                   697
SNAs               161            120                   398
All                155             139                  454
a/ This column is Of acadeciC interest only is 199/80 funding is grant funded by 601. rhe charge is
based on bortisation of aeoital cost at 91 over 30 years.
6.12 (a) In practise it has been found that the use of flow restrictors are
not acceptable to consumers. Further systems designed under the IKK programme
will use water movers. Restrictors are always tampered with, be it to increase
the flow rate or Just to clean dirt flushed from the mains during commissioning
or after repair. The larger flow of water thus obtained deprives downstream
consumers of water, who are then in turn tempted to interfere with the device.
Consumers close to the source (in the absence of metered billing and looped
distribution systems) receive all the water they require (and often rup excess
to waste or onto gardens) while those distant fr:m the source are deprived of
*heir needs.
8.12 (b) Trial Installation of meters during 1990/91 on some project IKKs
indicated remarkable success In reversing this situation as the meter in effect
acted as an *acceptable" restrictor. The need to read the consumer meters also
insure that regular inspection is made of the distribution system. Revenues
doubled, and even quadrupled in one case. A number of studies I/ were
undertaken in various provinces during the mid 1980s and the findings have
been applied to other projects as appropriate under on-going IKK programmes.
None of these studies however had the opportunity to observe performance of
IKK systems with meters. The PMU is preparing a report on the experience as it
maybe usefully applied in upgrading IKK schemes nationwide In the future.
6.12 (c) Other improvements made in the project IKK systems include (i) the
formation of 7loops" in the network layout, (ii) installation of more line
valves to enable manipulation of the distribution system into "blocks" if
required (111) installation PLN (grid) power supplies and more electrical
protection equipment In the control panels to safeguard against the all to
frequent pump-motor damage from electrical surges. Many of these improvemnts
were standard features of the 63 IKK implemented under Loan 2632 In 1986-1990.
I  Theas includtd
(j) (valustion if Desmig Standards for IlK Nater Supply Systems (Eng. Donald r. Lauria and
Eng. Jorge Arboled)a February 1984. Tho Report findings Nts  based on an eleven day visit
to Indonesia, 9 20 August 1983.
(ii) rTechnical Assistance for III Sul rTons Niter Supply Sector Project (John raylor & Sons
Internatfonl and S6), pril 1954.
(iii) t1XX Review Mission (ADAS, 0kV and INACC 8. '), July 1984. Tho report findings were based on a
6 week visit to tndonesia, June - aid July 1984.
|(iv) hesign Criteria and Standards Report - Ilk row1ns (ANPA and Pr. serco), Novenb r 1984.
Produced as part of the preparation of the Second fast Java Project (Loan 263?J.
(v) 111 Review and Action Progrese (INACO, VHV,jASEC0 I DESERCO), lurch 1986 - Final Report on
a one year assigneent. 



- 56 -
B. Financial ASRects
asnoral*
6.13     In 1983 the the 6 established WEs were in a orecarious state.
The project has improved their financial position and management capacities,
and therefore their ability to maintain their new level of service, and even
to expand it. The improvement can be seen from examination of the loan
covenants related to financial performance of the.WEs(especlally cost
recovery). Table 7 of Part III (sheets 2, 3 and 4) summarize each relevant
covenant. In addition Annex K contains a time series comparison of estimated
and actual financial results.
6.14     Accrual accounting is now established in the WEs (accounting before
the project was on a cash basis) as is an annual audit (by BPKP) of the
financial reports. WEs now have the annual accounts ready for audit within'
a couple of months of the financial year close. The quality of implementation
is presently variable but is improving, with assistance coming from a number
of sources including specific assistance from the PMOU, PTU and even such
overall programmes as that under Loan 2940-IND (which aims at improving
accounting practices, enchancing the quality of accounting education ana
increasing accountancy manpower throughtout Indonesia).
Revenue Covenant-and Cost Recovery
6.15     Covenant 4.04 (a) required each WE in each year after 1985 to
produce gross operating revenues not less than operating expenses and
depreciation. Compliance with this covenant was not practicable early in
the project (the first full year of operation of project assests was
scheduled for 1988). However in FY 1990 operating revenue in each WS
exceeded the respective operating expenses (excluding depreciation).
Furthermore, operating revenue exceeded 0 & M plus depreciation expenses in
all except 3PAM Tuban. Therefore all WEs except SPAM Tuban (the most
recently constituted WE) have reached the "break even point" and are in
fact generating a small amount of funds for further expansion. This
performance enabled BPAMs Situbondo and Tulungagung to be transferred to
POAM status in early 1991. A planned tariff increase in mid 1991 for Tuban
is expected to improve its performance in FY 1991.
Water Tariffs
6.16     7;e improved financial position of the enterprises is tied closely
to the imcosition of carefully considered tariffs. Tariffs with a
progressive structure are now applied in each WE generally in accordance
with the recommended National Water Rate Structure (except POAM Sampang)
promulgated by the GOI joint MPW/MHA decree "5 Tahun 1984;28/KPTS;1984 of
1984" and the MHA decree 690-536 of June 1988. This latter regulation
(issued in response to a covenant of the first Urban Sector Loan 2816-IND)
confirmed that tariffs should be set at levels which would cover O&M costs,
plus depreciation. The degree of progressivity however varies widely
between the project WEs. A water tariff study completed under the project
also confirmed the 3ppropriateness of the NWRS, although it suggested a more
progressive structure in the domestic consumption group.
6.17     Tariff adJustment has also been implemented approximately-every
three years in all WEs except Sampang (see Table of dates and amount of



-57-
increase; related to covenant 4.04 (b), in Table 7 of Part III). With the
.ncreasing awareness generated by the project of the need for improved cost
recovery, tariffs will be adjusted more frequently in the future. The
current level of tariffs applied (Table 6.3) have been obtained by
substantial adjustment of the last tariff, and the average levels now in
fact exceed the appraisal levels for 1990 (in 1990 prices).
TABLE 6.3
Tariffs (RD/Pn) Applied in 19" (Actual vs Estirated)
..................... ............................................ .......
Base Tariff ('A')      Average Tariff
..... ........  ..     ..............
WE    before last  after   S         1990   1990
- -    adjustment adjustment  adjustment   Actual Aporaisal
Madiun    90     120       33       '36    119
Halang    80     110       37       188    132
nojokerto  70     100       43       251     1.79
Sampang    86    125       45       212    190
Sidoarjo   160   175        9        729    172
Situbondo   50   120       140      196    173
Tucan    105     135       29       259    155
Tulungagung  90  125       39       229    179
6.18    Tariff increases in each PDAM and BPAM require the approval of the
head of the respective level II government (the Bupati, through the Regency
Consultative Council or DPRD). They must balance cost recovery considerations
against other matters before agreeing increases. This process can be slow as
even tariffs of Rp 120/m3 (USS 0.06/m3) are sometimes seen to be a
burden by the local authorities. Overall the process weakens the WEs' ability
to discharge their commercial responsibilities for cost recovery. In addition
in the past it has been the MPW who has had prime reponsibility for national
review and implementation of tariff matters, whereas tariff policy within PDAMs
was overseen by MHA. Despite this, the slow tariff adjustment of the early
years in proJect WEs has not severely impacted on their finances because of
the delayed achievement of full operation. Since 1989 the WEs have been assisted
in their tariff assessments by the Provincial Monitor1ng and Development Unit
(the "PMOU established under Loan 2275). With this assistance, and guidance
from the MHA regulation of June 1988, future tariff increases are expected
more frequently. This framework will also ensure that all costs requiring
recovery are better identified, and a clearly calculated and explained case
for adjustment is presented to the authorities for approval.
6.19    Finer adjustment of tariff structures are now underway with particular
emphasis on t1) ensuring connections to commercial and industrial properties
are classified accordingly and (ii) utilizing more fully the progressive
nature of'the NWRS in the high consumption brackets, again especially in the
industrial/commercial group. Use of the progressive nature of the NWRS can
also be made to encourage or suppress demand depending upon whether excess
production capacity exists or not. Furthermore, the MHA has recently
recognized the need to Improve local government performance in this area
and have therefore initiated a review within MHA of existing arrangements
for tariff setting.



58 -
Assets and Depreciation (Covenants 4.0 (c) and (d)M
6.20       Tho PMU has handed over to the WEs management of the assets,  as-
built records, copy of contracts, O&M manuals and lists of assets and their
values. Legal ownership has not yet been transferred. Data on assets are
considered in preparation of the annual financial reports;
those data are in turn verified by the local office of the state Audit
Bureau (BPKP) during the annual audit. Despite these arrangements the full
value of fixed assets in operation are tiot being accounted for in most of
the WEs and matters related to fixed assets are the second most frequently
queried aspect of operations (Table 6.4). Consequently depreciation
expenses also are not being fully accounted for in many enterprises. There
fore the accounts produced by the WE present a better picture of financial
performance than is the case in reality. Depreciation also presently reflects
historical costs rather than being revalued as required by the loan covenant.
As most assets are new, the effect on financial performances at present is not
significant.
TABLE 6.4
Qualificatigns Found in the POAN Audit Reorts
..... ............ .....................................................................................................
POAN        year  unquali account- account- accounts internal inventory registrat- balance tax  financial
fied    ing     ing   receiv- control            ion fixed sheets  lia-  legali-
audit  system   staff   able                       assets          bility zation
EJNSP I
;alang, Kab.  '86            x                        x                  x        x      x
'87             x                        x                  x        x      x
'88
'89
Sidoarjo, Kab.'86                                     x                  x.              x
87                              x       x                  x                x
'88                                      x                  x               x
'89                     x       x        x                  x        x      x       x
N'kerto, Kab. '86            x               x        x                  x        x
'87                             x        x                           x
'88                             x        x                  x               x
'89
.............................................................................................
Sapiang, Kab. '86                            x        x                  x
'87                             x        x                  x               x
'88                                      x                  x               x
'89
Madiun, Kod. '86
'87                                      x                  x                       x
'88                             x        x                  x                       x
'89
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,,,,,,,,,.............................................................................................................. ........ .
Total Scc'           0       3       1       8        14       0         13       5      9       3
(14 audits)
6.21       A joint team from MPW, MHA and MOf has been formed to expedite the
transfer of assets and PMDU and PMU have made action programmes to overcome



-59-
the audit qualification including those relating to asset value. The true
value is an aggregation of civil, equipment procurement and servie contracts.
Assets values originating from civil contracts are easily established but
materials and equipment costs from bulk procurement of equipment in
multi-currency and multi-year contracts are not so easily allocated (as are
consultant services and project administration costs). Improvement in
registration of fixed assets is one further benefit which would accrue from
increased support of PIU logistic staff in future projects (see 5.15).
6.22     In response to the depreciation difficulties encountered under
this and other projects, DAB in 1989 produced extensive guidelines for the
calculation of depreciation. These amplify the standardized accounting
systems covered in the 1980 and 1983 WE accounting systems ("Buku
Pedoman"). Training in the application of the guidelines was given to key
staff (such as PM U financial section heads). According to latest BPKP
reports improved depreciation calculations have already begun to be applied
in the project WEs.
6423     A MHA circular in July 1985 suggested to provincial Governors that
distributicn of 55X of POAM net profits to their local governments (as
allowed by laws constituting the WEs) be foregone until at least 75% of
people within the serviced area receive piped water. However the project
POAHs continue to make payments. PDAMs, while technically 'autonomous", are
under the control and ownership of local government, who have a major voice
in tariff setting, capital investment plans and distribution of POA14
profits. Payment to local government can be viewed as providing support to
provision of other essential public services, but also can create a
relationship where the POAN becomes a cash generator for the local
government while ignoring the need to build up funds to replace capital
assets and undertake improvement and expansion. The practice also can
remove the pressure from local government to generate local revenues from
tax and fee sources. A satisfactory solution to this quandrv has not yet
been found, although a significant decentralization of loca, government
public service delivery under IUIDP should help.
Connection Charoaes (Covenant 06)
6.24     Connection charges to customers have generally been limited to their
estimated cost (approximately Rp. 80,000 for SNA and Rp. 15,000 for IKK system)
to improve the poor's access to piped water. Charges have varied between WEs,
particularly in established POAMs but attainment of targetted connection number
in most systems would indicate the current level of charges are not a serious
deterrent to people wanting connection. On the other hand a reduction of some
50X in the charge in some towns in 1989 did produce many new applications. For
example, in the BNA town of Krian connections totalled about 1900 (target 3450)
in 1989 before, the connection price was reduced about 50S to Rp. 40,000, after
which application for a further 1000 connections were received.
C. rnstitutional As ects of Prolect Results
fackargung
6.25     At project appraisal in 1982, the concept of establishing
autonomous Kabupaten-wide WEs was virtually untried although their
establishment in larger towns had be   underway since the mid 1970s (see
2.02 and 4.07). The accelerated provfsion of water systems to smaller



- 60 -
cormunities at the beginning of the decade created tbe prospect of a large
number of WFs (about 2000) being created. This prospect was obviously
unworkable given the scarcity of resou.rces. At appraisal it was decided to
consolidate  al water operations in esach local Government (Kabupaten or
Kotamadya). Tho overall result was to reduce the number of potential WEs
throughout Indonesia from 2000 to about 250,
6.26.    Institutional develooment aspects of the projects have therefore
focussed not only on development of the 8 WEs in East Java but also on
providing support to GOI in implementing nationally-water sector
development along the lines of the project WEs. The vehicle for this
development has bteen a series of consultancy services. There services are
listed In Table 6.D of Part III under the headings "Training", 'POAM
Provincial and CK (Cipta Karya) Assistance" and 'Studies-Financial and
Institutional". The objectives, costs and a brief assessment of the impact
of each service are given in Annex F. The results of these services are
examined below.
Prolect WE Organization and Stafftng
6.27     The project WEs already established in 1983 had small systems
rarely covering more than one community, high staff levels and weak
organization. Local Consultants reviewed their organization, and gave
training both on and off-the-job (see Ref. 81, B2 in Annex F). This '
assistance provided to each WE an instruction manual for implementing the
accounting system and introduced WE monitoring indicators developed under
the other TA contracts. All enterprises are now operated on a Kabupaten
wide basis and, although there is some reluctance to fully incorporate the
unprofitable IKK schemes in their operation (for example Kab. Mojokerto)
all view the supply of water within the Kabupaten as their responsibility
A measure of the improved organization is reflected in the staffing levels
for each WE shown in Table 6.5, which shows the staffing/connection ratio3
falling on average by about 50X over the project period.
TABLE 6.5
kctual Stff in LevIs per 1000 connections
WE             1983           199)0
1. Nadiun            35             10
2.  ialang           23              8
3. Nojokerto         28             20
4. Saepang            16            16
5. Sidoarjo          25              7 aJ
6. Situbondo         24             10
7. Tuoan              0              14
8. Tulungagung        0              13
.......................  ...        ....
Average            25              12     -
........ ............. ......... ............. ........................ ..... .....  ...... ............ .................. 
al more staff are still to be employed.
6.28     There has been little in the results of the project to suggest that
future development of WEs should not follow the Kabupaten-wide model established
for this project. This approach is now being used as a national standard.
Under Loan 2632 investigations were made in North and South Sulawesi of



- 61 -
combining small Kabupaten-wide WEs to improve efficiency with the hope that
such combination would enable the new enterprise to reach a "critical mass",
but this strategy has not been strongly pursued. Likely cross-border
administrative difficulties are foreseen with this approach, but use of regional
enterprises in certain circumstances has not been entirely ruled out, as the
establishment in 1988 of the POAB to supply bulk water in East Java demonstrates.
6.29     Further assistance was provided to the WEs in 1987 with funding from
Loan 2632 and then in later years by the Provincial Training Unit (PTU) and
Provincial Monitoring and Development Unit (PMDU). Both organization were
established under the project to improved the sustainability of developments
in the sector. These newly created organizations have directed their attention
to the upper management of the WEs (initially Directors/Heads of Sections and
more recently the Board of Supervisors). Their training and development material
has almost exclusively been drawn from that produced by other projects under
the loan. Thus direct assistance to the WEs to improve their organization have
been parallelled by development in training infrastructure (see also 6.33 for
training results).
6.30     The project has contributed to improved awareness of sound water
utility practices within the WEs. However organizational problems still exist,
typically (as noted by the PMDU in 1989) (1) Bupatis/Walikotas are too busy
and the Board of Supervisors of WEs often meet too infrequently to pay -the
required attention to problems faced by POAMs (ii) Directors and other senior
staff are often not selected on the basis of their professional qualifications
g11i) these staff often have limited career prospects in the POAM and prefer
to remain Level II employees, thus encouraging frequent transfers and imposing
heavy new training loads, (iv) the existence of large numbers of temporary
employees in the WEs, even though regulations require they become permanent
(direct) employees of the WE within 3 years, and (v) poor communication with
their central government overseer, the MHA. Many of these organizational
shortcomings have now been exposed under project assistance tp the WEs.
An increasingly active role of MHA is expected to obviate them.
Sector Oroanization
6.30     There have been few majqr changes in responsibilities within the
sector between 1983 and 1990. Thus efforts under the project have
continued to concentrate mainly on improving (i) the abilities of OSE and
then DAB to provide technical support to all WEs and (ii) provincial
government organization, through MHA, to provide monitoring and development
guidance to the PDAMs. The largest difference now is that future local
needs are now being. assessed through a decentralized process of program
planning (known as IUIOP). In 1984 DOGCK's organization was modified to
create the new Directorate of Planning and Programing (Bina Program) which
became responsible for planning and programing in works (IUIOP) while the
Directorate of Sanitary Engineering's responsibilities were divided between
water supply (DAB) and human/solid waste and drainage (PLP). Assistance
under this Project was directed to DAB. A key local government organization
in the IUIDP process 1isthe PDAM, who are now in a stronger position to
play an increased role given the attention by OAB's STO section under the
project to improving sector monitoring and performance.
6.3 i    Development in the sector has been monitored closely, including
through the Human Resources Development Projects, Stages I, II and III
(HROP I, II and III). The projects werp'parallel financed by this loan and
Dutch assistance (see contracts refarehce B5 to 810 in Annex F for



- 62 -
individual detail). Apart fromn producing a complete range of training
products for use in a decentralized training programme, and a comprehensive
human resources master plan, HROP provided a forum in which a wide range of
development strategies, option and mechanisms received consideration. HROP
in effect acted as the 'secretariate". Along with the Institutional Support
for the Water Supply Sector (ISWSS) project in 1984-85 HRDP was instrumental,
inter alia, in developing the WE monitoring indicators and the associated
Water Enterprise Management Information System (abbreviated to SIMPAN in the
Indonesian language). Though developed under MPW guidance, the instruments
can easily be transferred to MHA. Having reached maturity at central level,
HRDP has now been reformed to provide assistance not only to CK/MHA but also
to PMDUs in 4 provinces.
6.32     Further sector development resulted from the ISWSS projects,
parallel funded by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (now
AIDAB). ISWSS projects covered WE training, PDAM/Provincial/CK assistance
and a tariff study (see ref. 81 to 84, Cl, C2 and D1 of Table 6.D of Part
III and Annex F for detail of each contract). These projects provided
assistance In the early design of the Province Training Unit (PTU) in East
Java and laid the foundation for the East Java Provincial Monitoring and
Development Unit (PMDU) establishment. Both of these were the first such
organizations established outside Jakarta, and represent a major element In
GOI strategy for the decentralization in the water sector. Physical
establishment of both was achieved with assistance of the follow-on Loan
2632. The concept of a PMOU in each province has now been adopted
nationally and establishment of PTUs (or regional training centres) in
selected provinces remains a goal in the development of sector
institutions. A more detailed review of the PMDU will be done under Loan
263Z as its physical establishment and early operation has been closely
tied to that project. ISWSS projects also (i) reviewed tariff structures in
East Java and nationally (ii) provided assistance to and a review of CK
central functions.
Training
6.33     Much of the institutional development of the project has been done
in the context of 'training". Table 6.E of Part III indicates over 5000
persons have received formal training in the sector during the project.
Annex G provides a detailed review of the training component of the project
including establishment of the PTU. Overall the result of this component
have been very satisfactory although the size of the programme in the 1980s
was curtailed somewhat due to difficult economic conditions restricting
budgets (and hence growth of staff in the sector). Nevertheless it is
estimated the backlog of those requiring training has been held constant.
Meanwhile the creation under the project of new training facilities,
"software' and some 70 nationally accredited trainers will assist in the
provision of an accelerated programme of future training.
6.34     The strategy developed under HROP  is to direct classroom training
to WE management and the orientation of new employees and on-the-job training
(which Is more suited to the transfer of technical skills, and increases the
number of "low-level" beneficiaries) to lower level staff. Other approaches
found to benefit training included (t) timing of training to coincide with
start-up of facilities (ii) gaining the full support of the WE management
before training began, and (iii) ensuring the presence of the proper tools
and equipment for O&M in the WE before training commences. Much has been
developed in the way of training "software" under the project. Training



- 63 -
manuals for a full range of courses now exist (534 modules in all) as does
a systematic approach to WE performance assessment (WEPA), a comprehensive
Management Information System (WEMIS or SIMPAM) and community related
programmes for use by DAS and provincial government before construction and
the WEs after. All these tools are geared to improved performance of the WEs
in particular and the sector in general. Use is already being made of these
Instrument but they will be disseminated more widely with time. Thus full
application of this software is just beginning but future programmes are
expected to benefit greatly from result of the training component of this
project.
D. Other ProJect Results
Future Prolect Precaration
6.35     GOI budget difficulties beginning in the early 1980s required an
Increased allocation from loans to support and accelerate preparation of
future projects. This enabled a pipeline of projects to be maintained in
the sector. Thus the loan was used to finance a series of consultancy
;ontracts, some of which had not been considered at appraisal. In summary
the contracts were                            -
(a) 6 contracts in East Java to prepare the follow-on project to Loan 2275,
including preparation of the remaining 75 BNA/IKK towns and a
feasibility study and detailed design for the 1 m3/sec Karangpilang
Water Treatment Plant Stage I.
(b) 4 contracts in East Java for studies, the major ones being the first
stage of the Kali Surabaya Pollution Control project, and a major study
of unaccounted water for PDAM Surabaya.
(c) 5 contracts in North and South Sulawesi provinces for feasibility
studies, detailed design and project preparation for a water supply
project covering about 120 towns.
(d) 3 similar contracts for Irian Jaya province to prepare 10 towns (co-
financed by AIDAB), and
(e) 3 contracts related to project management and assistance to WEs under
Loan 1709.
Manmonths and costs are summarized in Table 6.0 of Part III (contract ref.
El to E20. Again, a more detailed assessment of the impact of each service is
at Annex F.
6.36     The preparation work for Loan 2632  (the Second East Java IBRO
Water Supply Project) in 1984 and 1985 led to a quick appraisal and
successful early launch of the project in 1986. The project has been
Implemented to schedule and the benefits are already being enjoyed. The 1
mP/sec Karanrgpilang Water Treatment Plant Stage I has also been completed
satisfactorily. The full impact of the studies are better assessed upon
completion of Loan 2832. in 1992, as they where conducted in the context of
that Loan, but results to date are encouraging.
6.31     The results of project preparation in Irian Jaya/North and South
Sulawesi have been less fruitful. After reaching appraisal stage, both
projects were reassessed by DOGCK as the sector planning policy .hifted to



- 64 -
the IUIDP approach. Both projects were consequently postponed as the sector
approach was deemed inappropriate. Somepemergency works designed under
the project foC the Sulawesi's have bean completed but most of the works
have been postponed to allow a limited number of towns to participate in
the recently (1990) prepared Sulawesi/Irian Jaya IUIDP project. In contrast,
most of the preparation work for Irian Jaya remained relevant for this IUIOP
project, and some emergency work has already been completed.
pact_on Phvsical and Technological Environment
6.38     Some minor disturbances to traffic and access during construction
were experienced but their impact was minor, mainly because hand-dug pipe
trenches require little access and road surface damage is quickly prepared.
Matters which could have been troublesome were not, these being (i) land
acquisition (a number of sites, particularly reservoirs, were relocated to
less populated locations) and (11) pipelaying in built-up areas (the
generally small diameter pipes can be easily re-routed and require no heavy
plant for laying). The impact of additional waste water generated in
supplied areas cannot be easily assessed, however the proportion of waste
water in the drainage systems In the wet season is very small in comparison
to stormwater; Improved sanitary practices introduced under other GOI
programmes (mainly through the Health Ministry) also reduced the risk of
water borne disease being transported In the extra waste. A further positive
impact is that clean water has been supplied to a large number of people who
would otherwise have relied on unsafe supplies.
6.39     Minimum use of surface waters In favour of groundwater have
obviated possible conflicting claims to the use of that surface water. Some
lowering of groundwater levels around boreholes has been complained of (for
example at Madiun), but this was anticipated. Special attention was given
to ensuring piped water was available to the inhabitants of these
locations. However a number of experiences indicate some areas for
heightened attention In the future. These are   (1) protection of sources
will need increasingly active intervention of the local authorities to
prevent uncontrolled dumping of waste and construction of buildiigs near
boreholes (for example at SNA Krian) and (ii) the need to control
extraction rates in the vicinity of some wells, especially those close to
the sea in limestone northern areas of East Java, to guard against salinity
intrusion (as may have already happened at IKK Sooko), or aquifers depletion.
6.40     The project introduced electo-submersible pumping technology to 5
of the 8 WEs for the first time while experience of pumped systems for the
other 3 WEs was minimal prior to the project. Some WEs such as Sidoarjo
were a little hesistant about this as their experience had always been with
gravity supply. Pumped systems are unavoidable  on many occasion but
proJect experience (and some analysis under the East Java Water Resouress
Study funded by Loan 2632) indicates preference should be given to gravity
schemes.wherever possible even where the capital costs are a little higher
than pumped systems. The project alsc introduced sophisticated electronic
telemetry control syster3 in a number of towns, but this should be avoided
at present as difficulties in obtaining spare parts and local electronic
technicians to repair the units have already occurred. Electrical control
equipment has been less than satisfactory, but at least most components are
available in the market and trained maintenance personnel are becoming
available.
6.41     The project has created employment for over 400 extra staff in the
8 WEs as well as some 100 staff in the PMU/PIU. It has also made use of



- 65 -
over 2700 manmonths of local consultant input, mostly working alongside
foreign specialists. The overall result has been that (i) an increasingly
large body of experienced operation staff are becoming available for "seeding"
into newer enterprises (11) PMU/PIU are now are able to undertake the simpler
design work and (iii) local consultants are considered competent to undertake
most other assignments in the water sector.
E. Rates of Return
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
6.42     The appraisal recognized that the EIRR would be low, averaging
+4%. The actual EIRR for 4 of the 8 WE's averaged 4.4%, but for the other 4
it Is -4.5%. Table 6.8 of Part III summarizes the results calculated in
Annex I. These low rates provide the economic justification for higher
tariffs, but these will take time. In the meantime essential and safe water
will be provided to a heretofore unserved population at a price which will
encourage community acceptance. Furthermore, as noted in the SAR, these EIRR
calculations are not a fair measure of the true EIRR because they do not
adequately capture externalities (such as health benefits).
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
6.43     The appraisal FIRR was not given in the SAR. A recalculation of
actual and appraisal rates (Table 6.C of Part III, and Annex I) indicates
that the two WEs of Malang and Sidoarjo are positive while all were
probably negative at appraisal. This would suggest a better performance
than expected at least for these two enterprises. Again, the low tariffs is
the main reason for the low FIRR. The SAR predicted even the planned
tariff levels would need increases of some 100 to 200% to give acceptable
rates. This remains the situation.
Poverty Alleviation
6.44     Socio-economic surveys at appraisal estimated that about 66% of
people in the project towns were below the poverty line (Rp. 31,000 per
person-month in 1982 prices) and that about 50X of those served would be poor.
A figure frequently used now is Rp. 100,000 per month. Quantifying the impact
on the poor in the project towns is difficult, although it is estimated the
percentage of poor (by one measure of poverty) fell in Indonesia from 28.6%
to 17.4% in the period 1980 to 1987 1/, that the largest decline in
poverty occurred in rural areas of Java in this period and that both rural
and urban areas experienced decreased poverty. One reason cited for this
performance (achieved during a time of quite severe economic adjustment and
reduction in development expenditures nationwide) is the substantial
investment made by GOI in physical infrastructure, such as water supplies
provided by this project.
6.45     Although targetted numbers of public taps (intended for use by the
poor) were not achieved, the impact on the poor may not have been severe
because tariffs remain low in the social consumption blocks and shared
____________________________________________e____________- _- -______________
.~ ~ ~ ~ I;Ii a.  ,77r'cU    :`:'e! l ''^5i,  strateg;>l I., a sust;irec riduction, if.



- 66 -
connections are common. Tariffs in fact remain below the AIC of supply.
Estimated population served also increased from about 150,000 to over 600,000,
about 20X whom are poor, based on national figures. The low use of public taps
experienced in many locations may also partly reflect the improving incomes,
and hence reduced poverty. Poverty apparently is becoming concentrated in
specific locations. It is these smaller "pockets" that current and future
poverty alleviation programmes will address. Introduction of BAPPENAS
co-ordinated programs to provide public stand pipes in water stressed poverty
areas and renewed efforts to improve rural coverage are cwo exampleq of these
special programmes. Some of the project towns have already received assistance
under this first program. Other programmes include coimnunity related activities
("water compaigns") developed for WEs and implemented during the project
and which are directed mainly at poor communities.
6.46      Direct benefits have also flowed to the poor from the project
these include generation of employment, cost savings through cheaper water,
better health and extra time, especially for women, for more productive
activities. It is for these reasons that the shortfall in public tap numbers
and its connection to the issue of service to the poor has been noted and is
being actively addressed.
S



- 67 -
7. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.01     The project has a number of aspects which were designed to secure
sustainability of the WE investments and sector progress. These included
inter alia :
(1)   minimum use of surface water sources and treatment plants which
are dependent on (mainly imported) M&E plant.
(i1)  provision of a full range of tools and equipment to each WE for
O&M including water loss reduction activities
(iii) the careful division of investment in each Kabupaten between BNA
and IKK sized towns to ensure that overall the WE was likely to
be viable financially
(iv)  revision of tariffs (including  conduct of a special study) to
ensure better cost recovery while still maintaining the tariff's
social objectives
(v)   provision of training and on-the-job assistance to the 8 WEs to
maka their operations more efficient
(vi)  establishment of the PTU and PMDU to provide on-going trainin,
monitoring and development assistance to not only the 8 project
WEs but also the other 29 WEs in East Java, and
(vii) assistance to DGCK to not only develop training materials and WE
monitoring and development methods but also to strengthen of
DGCK's ability to direct development of the sector.
7.02     All these aspects have succeeded some way in ensuring present
benefits are maintained and are likely to be raised In the future. Recovery
of O&M and depreciation costs through better tariff structures is making
.a,ailable funds for improved O&M and even small extensions of the distribution
system. Concentrated efforts in human resources development under this,
previous and on-going projects are beginning to improve WE efficiency and.
enable them to become self-reliant, viable bodies providing a public service
responsive to the needs of the population in the Kabupaten.
7.03     There is little doubt that the market exists for clean water
supplies, even in East Java, despite it being a province of relatively
abundant water resources. That demand however is influenced not only by
water costs and people's incomes but also the quality of service the WE
maintains. It is in this area that benefits could be increased in many WEs
through further action in both technical and institutional development.
7.04     Firstly, improved levels of O&M need to be achieved. Realistic
tariffs, a better supply of trained administrative and technical staff and
greater responsibility for the consequences of their-actions all will help
secure the WEs future. Specific technical fields where improved performance
could result from intervention in WEs are
(1)    electrification as soon as possible of all IKKs still dependent
upon diesel gensets and the provision of consumer water meters
if studies show consumer meters are justified,



- 68 -
(1t)   purchase and installation of production meters on all sources
OIiI)  developing strategies in each WE for reduction of unaccounted
water levels through engineering approaches and (less expensive)
management involvement
(iv)   review of electrical energy systems of each WE to ensure maximum
reliability, protection and efficiency
(v)    undertakirg defered maintenance of old, but retained systems, in
the WEs, and
(vi)   introduction of "planned maintenance" as opposed to "failure
maintenance"
7.05     Secondly, the financial management of WEs could be strengthened
through operational support (as opposed to developing new systems or
restructuring current ones). This support could be directed towards
(1)    improving the accounting to ensure'that before declaration of
surplus and distribution of profits PDAMs make full provision
for such items as depreciation, bad debts, regular maintenance
of plant, meter maintenance, future expansion and training
-ti)   further harmonizing accounting policies applied throughout the
sector and by all branches of BPKP and emphasizing the
production of management accounts and costing information rather
than time consuming production of a large number of monthly
accounts which are of little value to management.
(-ll)  strengthening techniques for, and WE staff skills in forecasting
of revenues and expenditure and understanding the links between
operating and capital budgeting
(iv)   training in tariff setting, and if needed, incorporating consumer
demand factors
(v)    improving bill collection efficiency including more use of private
sector contractors, as already practised successfully by some WEs,
and
(vi)   improving productivity of PDAM staff by investigating and
providing career paths within PDAM/BPAMs that provide opportunity
and motivation for staff advancement and also developing sound
pension schemes properly funded and accounted for.
7.06     Thirdly, continued assistance by IBRD and others to PTU and PMDU at
provincial level and MPW/MHA centrally will help GOI oversee the further
developemnt and financial soundness of WEs. Possible assistance includes
(1)    assisting MHA and all PMDUs acquire or adapt WEMIS developed by DAB
under th.e HRDP projects
(ii)   raising PMDU ability to provide expert consulting assistance to
WEs on an as-needed basis and enabling PDAMs to access private
consulting firms directly as needed



- 69 -
(iii)  similarly, establishing more PTUs, raising their exoertise and
ability to develop training delivery programmes tailored to
individual WE needs and integrated with MHA policies, and
(iv)   improvement to the structure and mandate of POAM boards to
assure adequate management at local level (these improvements
could include provision of bespoke job descriptions, training of
members, providing adequate compensation etc).
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 70 -
8. PERFORMANCE OF SUPPLIERS CONTRACTORS AND CONSULTANTS
SuDDliers
8.01     29 of 31 bids were won by local suppliers while the other two
(for workshop maintenance equipment) were foreign contractors with local
offices (see 5.12 and Annex E for further detail). 19 of the 31 bids were
on an ICS basis and 20 different suppliers were awarded the 31 contracts.
8.02     All suppliers completed their contracts although one PVC pipe supplier
(Eslon Jaya) was declared bankrupt before he began delivery. As specific
prequalification is not used for materials procurement, this bankruptcy of an
established manufacturer was completely unforeseen, but a new contract was
awarded quickly and delay to the project minimal. One other contract amended
drastically was for supply of drilling rigs. Re-appraisal of drilling
contractors abilities in East Java in 1985 concluded this equipment was not
required and an amicable agreement was reached before the equipment was
delivered.
8.03     The performance of suppliers-of pipe, well equipment,
miscellaneous items and most mechanical and electrical (M&E) equipment
has been acceptable but this last group (M&E) required considerable
attention from PIU and Consultant staff to ensure they fulfilled their
contractual obligations. Experience indicates that these M&E contracts
should be awarded as early as possible (before all others if practicable)
because of the time required to complete them. The long periods to complete
result especially from :
gi)    the specifications are mostly performance type, so the supplier
must design much of the works after contract award.
(ii)   the specifications, being prepared for ICB bidding, are in English,
so it is difficult for suppliers with limited English language
to fully appreciate their contractual obligations. Similarly the large
volume of detailed instructions which accompany the equipment and
whl:h often provide guidance on specific usage is almost exclusively
in English
(iii)  the supplier's technical staff are often not highly experienced in
water supply design
(iv)   much of the M&E equipment is imported or at least just assembled
in Indonesia. This adds a large number of steps to the procurement
process
(v)    the M&E plant specification is generally more sensitive to change
in design than other materials
(vi)   generally a small number of items (e.g. pumps) represent a large
portion of the contract price; hence suppliers tend to focus less
on the smaller items. However without these items, the system
operation and long term maintainability are often impaired.
8.04     All the contracts included a price schedule for "Technical
Assistance" against which some suppliers submitted a price, but others
offered this assistance "free" or "included in material costs". The
implication was that the TA was considered of little value. The quality



- 71 -
of this assistance when provided was variable, but generally the larger
national suppliers who priced the Item provided better assistance.
Experience indicates GOI should insist this item should be priced and
the quality and quantity of the assistance offered evaluated along with
tnat of the materials at tender evaluation.
8.05     A number of changes and improvements to the procurement
documentation and methods have been implemented in more recent projects
(or are worthy of further consideration). These include :
(1)    M&E plant should not only be supplied but also be installed
under the contract
(t1)   use of an increasing number of Indonesia Industrial Standards
(SII) in specifications, and where an SII does not exist,
specification of an International Standard Organization (ISO)
document in preference to standards of other nations
Ciii)  use of more tables in specifications, and In general
making it as far as possible a "working specification"
(iv)   highlighting the shop drawing submission process and giving
detailed lists of drawings necessary for each schedule item.
8.06     The quality of materials delivered have been acceptable although
two difficulties experienced where ti) the quality of locally produced'
cast-iron fittings for the pump stations and (II) incorrect sizing of the
o.:Afice plates in the IKK chlorinators. Both deficiencies were eventually
overcome. Difficulties are likely to arise with those items specified in price
schedules as "one unit" (e.g. one chlorinator). Quality of components were not
so much a problem as the way those components were delivered and assembled In
the final item. Hence specifications should clearly specify that "one unit"
should be delivered complete, If necessary with all accessories "wired" to It,
and even marked with the price schedule item number to enable it to be easily
located on drawings.
8.07     Further standardization of procurement documents under the
Bank's Institutional Oevelopment and Training project in the MPW should
also assist in harmonizing the conditions suppliers experience between
projects, improve quality control and enhance project staff management of
supply contracts.
Civil Contractors
8.08     Contractors have played a central role in the project. GOI regulations
require that all development budget work over Rp. 1 million be performed under
contract. Contracts (over 200) were undertaken by some 50 different Indonosian
contractors, mostly small local companies. The presidential decrees (KEPRES),
14 H and 29/30 of 1980 and 1984 respectively stipulate that projects with a
value less than Rp. 200 million must be tendered wmong small "economically weak"
contractors established In the districts where the works will be undertaken.
These contractors must also be prequalified to undertake government works. There
are more than 3000-prequalified contractors for MPW work in East Java. Less than
100 are classed as not 'economically weak", and most rely upon government works
for their survival.
8.09     The ability of the contractors depended mainly upon the ability of their
.management and senior site staff. Many of the contractors employed at least one
(generally young) engineering graduate on site. The performancf df contractors
was acceptable with all contracts bei1g completed and their
perfomance generally improving over time, as their experience increased. Private



- 72 -
well drilling contractors now own their own heavy equipment as db the larger
(Class A and l) contractors. Factors which helped performance have included
(1) "slicing and packaging" of the works Into elements which reduced
contractor's risk, (ii) decentralization of payment procedures during the
project to enable payment through local treasury offices (KPN) rather than in
Jakarta (iii) allowing price escalations in 1986 following devaluation,
(iv) limiting tender invitation lists to those who had previously worked on
the proJect and (v) government intervention to control prices nationwide of
cement, steel and other construction materials, thus reducing price
fluctuations.
8.10     The highest value civil contracts were for water towers, the largest
being Rp. 708 million at BNA Sidoarjo. Only three contracts exceeded
Rp. 500 million. Some difficulties were experienced in obtaining a satisfactory
standard of work from contractors who constructed these towers, mainly because
of the difficulties experienced in placing concrete at high rates some 20 to
30 metres above ground. Rates of 2 to 3 m3 per hour are barely acceptable, but
close supervision from project and consultant staff minimized the adverse impact
these low rates could have on the finrished quality.
8.11     Overall the construction industry is still In a developing stage with
the small contractors having limited skills and weak management. Most contracts
needed intensive supervision. Some training was given to contractor staff before
and during project implementation, and with these needs in mind, special
contractor training courses were prepared under the HRDP project in 1984/85.
Substantial contractor training programs have been introduced on a number of
other projects and, with establishment of the PTU at Wiyung in Surabaya, some
contractor training has been given in East Java. The objective of requiring
contractors to employ tradesmen who have been certified as competent through
attendance at a PTU course is now within reach.
8.12     The legal and administrative framework within which the contractors
work have also improved during the decade due to ti) GOI projects such as
the Manpower Development Project which revised standard procurement documents,
(0i) maintenance of a steady stream of project works and, (iii) the formation
of various Contractor's associations, including a national association of
waterworks contractors (which has the support of the MPW) and its fledgeling
East Java branch.
Performance of Consultants
8.13     The  proportion  of  the  loan  used  to finance TA increased from
17% envisaged at appraisal to nearly 46%, with 36 contracts awarded to
24 different consulting firms. Much of this increase was due to additional
new project preparation. Consultants therefore played a significant role
In the project.
8.14     Under the project 465 manmonths of foreign consultant and 2705
manmonths of local consultants were contracted. Appraisal estimates were 312
foreign and 1072 local man-months. The division between the project parts
is given in Table 8.1 (further details are contained in Table 6.D of Part III,
and Annex G).



- 73 -
TABLE 8.1
Analysis of Consultant Services financed by Loan 2275
TA Comoonent       Contracts       Man-months      Direct Costs (US$ '000)
Local  Foreign   Locil   Foreign    Total
Project Management    2           354      97        610     1,085    1,695
Training              11          375      43        961       470    1,431
POAM/Provincial
DOGCK Assistance       2          147       0        516          0      516
Financial Studies      1           80       0        110          0      110
New project
preparation           20        1,749     325     6,300      5,494   11,794
Totals               36        2,705     465     8,497      7,049   15,546
8.15     Project management and advizory services to the PMU/PIU following
on from project preparation enabled early momentum to be maintained through
support of the new PMU. These services relied more on the local consultant with
time and, although not intended to provide full supervision of the works, have
also provided valuable support for GOI supervision staff by ensuring timely
preparation of each year's tender documents and providing experienced
construction engineers to advise PIU sub-sections. In later years they were also
useful in consolidating lcan monitoring, management and reporting under the East
Java PMU.
8.16     Institutional development aspects have involved local consultants
most heavily, although foreign consultants, mostly parallel funded by
tha Dutch and Australian Governments (HROP and ISWSS projects) also provided
very useful inputs. There was useful transfer of skills and knowledge
(especially under HROP) in the fields of training, management and finances
and the material produced have been, and will be, very useful in improving
enterprise performance in the sector.
8.17     Preparation of future projects required more foreign consultant services
than other parts. The performance of these Consultants was also satisfactory,
with one of the projects, the Second East Java, now approaching completion. Use
of foreign consultants was found to be necessary partly as a requirement of the
funding agency, but also because of the projects' complexity and their dispersed
locations (North and South Sulawesi and Irian Jaya). These services were all
completed satisfactorily.
8.18    All, parts of the proJect made use of a combination foreign and
local consultants. Local consultants have taken much greater responsibility as
their experience widened and managerial capacities improved and for many
sector projects now are the lead firm in any association of local and foreign
consultants. Technology transfer under these associations were generally
achieved 'on-the-job". Certain contracts explicitly required that transfer of
skills be achieved but in many cases there was no formal arrangwnent. Under
these circumstances the foreign consultants place prime importance on
performing their well defined, explicit contractual obligations ahead of



- 74 -
technology transfer. Upon review of sbrvices in general (see 8.19) GOI felt
there is roonmfor improvement in the future. Increased billing rates have
recently been approved and many payments accelerated by making them through
local offices, both partly in order to make the sector more attractive to
consultants. This should ensure that talented consultants who might otherwise
be attracted into the private sector by higher remuneration remain in the
public sector.
8.19     The amount of Consultant Services provided under projects has recently
(1990) been reviewed with Bank involvement and, although reduced levels under
projects are desirable, continued growth in the sector will continue to rely
heavily on their use. Overall the GOI opinion was that the design of the TA
elements under the project was satisfactory and that few adjustments were
necessary, although some reduction in foreign input could be justified in
the future and that TA grant funding for project preparation and training
separate from project loans could be desirable.



- 75 -
9. PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER
PMU/PIU
9.1      The PMU and PIU were officially established in March 1983 after a DSE
.project office in Surabaya had overseen preparation of the project. In 1984
the PMU/PIU and the local office of DSE (PPSAB) merged. Staff numbers
increased rapidly from about 63 in 1983 to 139 in early 1986 (when the
follow-on project Loan 2632 began) and to 264 in 1989. The Project Manager and
his senior assistants were retained in their positions between 1984 and
1989, the result being that despite rapid increases in staffing, (many of
little previous experience in water supply), some consistency of approach
could be retained. Furthermore the packaging of works required by the
regulations, budgetting procedures and dispersed sites placed a heavy work
load at times on the PMU/PIU/PPSAB, but despite this, major elements of the
project rarely fell behind schedule. The Second East Java Project overseen
by the same PMU is now approaching completion  ahead  of  schedule.
During this time a much greater responsibility for procurement, payments
and supervision of consultants has been given to the provincial staff. All
these new found responsibilities have been soundly discharged.
9.2      The credit for these achievements (and the early project preparation)
lays mainly with the project staff, who have demonstrated that, with
appropriate guidance and assistance from DGCK, deconcentration of central
government activities is a workable concept. PPSAB in East Java now have a
large staff experienced in water supply project implementation. A number of
these staff have now been sent to other provinces as project managers, while
those who remain in East Java will fill many key positions for implementation
of the much larger investments under future projects.
Directorate of Water SUPDly (DAB)
9.3      The DAB sub-directorates directly involved in the physical
implementation were Implementation West, (LAKBAR) and then East (LAKTIM)
and Logistics. The Sub-directorate of Planning and Design (Perencanaan)
directed future project preparation and the Sub-directorate of Development
(Pengaturan) oversaw the Institutional development components.
9.4      Creation in 1984 of the Directorate of Planning and Programming
(Bina Program) improved the performance of the new Directorate of Water Supply
by reducing the workload and removing the specialist planning functions. The
performance of the central implementing sub-directorate (LAKBAR and LAKTIM)
have been encouraging as their role has shifted from one of direct involvemeht
to that of providing guidance, coordination and overall supervision and
managerial audit of the provincial project. Similarly, the performance of
Logistics was satisfactory, but Its role has become more advisory in line
with deconcentration activities of GOI.
9.5      The performance of the Planning and Development Sub-directorate has
also been steadily improving as increased experience of staff and improved
coordination of the numerous agencies providing assistance to DAB has taken
effect through such measures as creation within DGCK of the Central Project
Finance and Central Project Management Offices. Staff training provided through
DGCK and MPW has been beneficial and on-going projects will further improve
GOI staff performance.



- 76 -
Provincial and Local Government
9.6      Provincial and local government have also played useful roles, although
not the complete one foreseen at appraisal (for the reasons explained in 4.12_).
Local governments were particularly efficient in land acquisition matters while
provincial government, through BAPPEDA, have played a useful role in early
project establishment and then later in the project as an overseer of
commissioning and hand-over of the facilities. The experience gained will be
invaluable for the much greater role of these parties in the future IUIDP
approach.
9.7      The performance of PDAM/BPAMs has been mixed. BPAMs have generally been
staffed by younger and better trained people originating from DGCK. Their
enthusiasm and committement to the project is undoubted. PDAMs have also
generally been supportative of the project, but some, such as Mojokerto and
Sidoarjo have not performed as well as expected. Creation of the PMDU under
the MHA and provincial government, along with greater WE involvement in project
preparation, are expected to improve PDAM performance under future projects.



- 77 -
10. PERFORKMNCE OF BANK
Project Identification and Preparation
10.1      The project grew out of preparation work for the Second Water
Supply ProJect (Loan 1709) which was post-appraised in 1979. Early preparation
work on two separate projects (one for ,5 BNA towns and another for 100 IKK
towns in East Java) were combined in 1982 and two projects proposed by the
Bank, one (Loan 2275) for immediate implementation, the other (Loan 2632)
to be delayed by a couple of years. A number of Bank missions in 1981 and
1982 assisted in bringing the first project quickly to the appraisal stage,
with issues such as WE organization, 0 & M capacity, WE monitoring and
project implementation arrangements being set-out early. Valuable dialogue
ensured between GOI and Bank staff.
ADoraisal
10.2     Unlike-Loan 1709 which required a post-appraisal some 2 years
after appraisal in 1977, and even then did not become effective until 1980,
appraisal to loan effectiveness for LQan 2275 was completed in less than one
year in 1982/83. This achievement was partly due to the co-operation of Bank
staff, who were able to ensure that the issues did not become obstacles
to progress, but nevertheless were satisfactorily resolved.
Sugervision
10.3     The timing and number of supervision missions was satisfactory with
a suitable selection of members from appropriate disciplines. 14 staff
in total contributed to some 20 missions (Annex P, page 3) and despite some
changing of technical staff, there has been appropriate attention to
institutional/financial aspects of the project, technical issues and to the
application of lessons learnt in the follow-on projects (Loan 2632 and then
under the later.IUIDP approach).
10.4     Bank staff have maintained good working relationships with all GOI
agencies and their Inputs have provided valuable support and guidance to
GOI staff responsible for sector development. Advice from and ideas generated
by the missions have been welcome and a basic source of guidance to GOI staff.
The support provided in overcoming obstacles to progress such as making
provision of extra funding during times of limited GOI budget, agreeing revised
procurement procedures and acting to coordinate efforts between agencies
have been particularly appreciated.
10.5     The contibutions of the Bank's resident staff in Indonesia have
been also particularly pleasing, with prompt responses to GOI queries and
ready access being the norm. Again, a supportive attitude has been maintained
throughout the project. Expansion of RSI's role might well be considered by
the Bank.
)~~~~~~~~
I.



- 78 -
11. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
GCI. and Bank-
11.1     A good working relationship between DGCK and the Bank staff have
enabled early and effective resolution of obstacles to progress and was an
underlying reason for the good progress on physical implementation of the
project. Intelligent supervision has minimized the potential for conflict.
Improved familiarity of Bank staff with Indonesian custom and exposure of GOI
staff to new ideas and concepts introduced by the Bank has been beneficial
in bringing change to the sector.
11.2     Continuing dialogue has taken place throughout the project, primarily
in the context of Bank supervision of the various loan covenants relating to
institutional development and water enterprise performance. Persistent
supervision in this area has been particularly beneficial in raising the
awareness of all involved in the sector to these issues and creating an
atmosphere conducive to change.
11.3     Apart from considerable informal discussion, the main medium or
'vehicle" for communication has been the aide memoires, which are discussed
widely in the implementing agencies during and after preparation. Because of
the aide-memoire's importance, and the need for it to be relevant to all GOI
agencies involved in the project (including MOF and BAPPENAS), particular
attention was given in later years to increased GOI paricipation in its
preparation and use of summaries to highlight findings. Continued efforts
in this regard would be fruit.
Bank and Co-financeirs
11.4     The Bank's role in coordinating assistance provided by the Australian
and Netherlands Governments (co-financiers of this project)has also been helpful
as it has brought some uniformity of approach to the sector which otherwise may
have been lacking, given the large number of bilateral/multilateral agencies
working with DGCK.
GOI and Co-financiers
11.5     DGCK have had a long relationship with both AIDAB and GON and a good
dialogue has been established with both. With the GOI being a substantial
borrower of IBRD funds and AIDAB/GON continuing to be providers of substantial
assistance, it ls hoped IBRD will continue to play a key role in facilitating
co-operation between these and the many agencies active in the Indonesian
Water Sector.



- 79 -
12. OOCUMENTATION
Loan Agresment
12.1    The loan agreement covenants have not only provided useful targets
for GOI, but have also provided a structured means through which the project
could be supervised. Simplificatlon of previous loan covenants requiring a
fixed rate of return on "revalued assets in operation" to one requiring that
GOI ensure "gross revenues be not less than operating expenses and depreciation"
has proven to be more easily understood by operations staff and also more
easily monitored.
12.2    The sections of the loan agreement most often referred to were those
about procurment. Towards the end of the project, there were a number of
occasions when the threshold of US$ 100,000 for ICB procurement was at odds
with GOI regulations, stipulating that goods valued at Rp. 500 million or less
(approx. US$ 350,000 at that time) be procured through different procedures.
These matters were resolved for this project, but the expsrie.ice highlighted
a need to ensure that Loan Agreement provisions and local regulations are
harmonized as much as possible.
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
12.3    This document proved invaluable during implementation as a'reference
and "control* document. As the project progressed and staff changed, it become
ever more useful. Hence the clarity and accuracy are very important. The SAR
for this project was probably the document most often referred to by the
Borrower, and despite it being prepared some 7 years previously, it remained
relevant even in 1990. One section which could have been better was that
relating to TA. The services expected could have been more clearly defined,
(although defining TA is admittedly difficult at appraisal).
12.4    Changes such as those to cost tables between the time of the
consultant's project preparation and SAR production should also be highlighted
as many people will have followed preparation but do not have knowledge of
last minute changes incorporated into the SAR. During implementation estimated
cost of works are often required, and without a complete record, are often
difficult to adjust.
WE Monitorina Indicators
12.5    Performance indicators for WE's were developed and introduced to the
WEs under the project. These Indicators are now provided quarterly by the WEs
to the PMDU and PPSAB. However, as review of PMOU quarterly reports show there
is still considerable progress to be made In ensuring that these indicators
have been completed correctly. Until then, their use is limited. Frequent
changes to WE staff has hampered progress in this area, but persistant
efforts by the PMOU to acquaint WEs with SIMPAN and improved ability of PMDU
to respond to situations reflected in the Indicators are expected to make
the SIMPAN system extremely valuable In the future. This system of indicators
Is now used for monitoring all WEs in Indonesia.
Detail (Final Enqineerinq Desiqn for the 50 TowU
.12.6    A large number of drawings were produced in 'AO' size along with Bills
of Quantities. Contract packaging of the works was not considered closely
at this stage. Implementation packaging required much re-draWing and
*      *     ,    I



- 80 -
preparation of new tender documentation. This would have been made less time
consuming had the original documentation been divided into more sections,
and (particularly useful for field supervision) had the drawings been capable
of reduction to A3 size, which facilitates multiple copying and easy access
for field supervisors.
Data for PCR
12.7     Data relevant to PCR preparation were not very readily available.
Improved archiving would not only facilitate preparation of the PCR but also
provide the basis for a "control" system during project implementation. All
contracts under the loan (not matter where implemented), invoices and
consultant's reports should be readily available in one location. An archive/
library should be established and personnel delegated to ensure archives are
complete and maintained. In this way a data base could be established. This
would also assist in achieving consistent decisions, minimize overlapping
of projects and facilitate easy follow-up of policy decisions.



- 81 -
13. MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
Exoerience from Earlier ProJects
13.01    Experience from previous projects highlighted the delay to projects
because of (1) cumbersome procurement (11) insufficient project preparation
and (iii) mismatches between ability to produce water and of that to sell it.
Furthermore, the experience of those projects (and also this project) confirms
that expectations about reduction in the level of unaccounted-for-water have
been over-optimistic and that alternative sources of supply need to be
considered when preparing demand projections (see para. 2.13).
13.02    Lessons were to be learnt also arising from this earlier experience
in relation to (i) improved cost recovery being necessary to finance continued
expansion of services (ii) decentralized implementation to improve project
performance, Oil) stronger support to WEs being required to ensure adequate
operation and maintenance of project facilities after completion and
(iv) truly sustainable development in the sector requiring large Investment in
human resources development. All these lessons were incorporated into the
design of this project in some manner (paras. 2.14 and 4.03).
Project Design and Organization
13.03    The devolution of responsibilitv for project implementation by creation
of a provincially based PMU/PIU (an innovative feature of this project) improves
the implementation performance. Staff employed for the project (especially those
recruited locally) should however receive early training (see paras. 4.10).
13.04    Establishment of a PMU/PIU outside the line organisation has advantages
in that it assigns clear responsibility for project Implementation. However
the arrangement some times is not entirely suitable particularly when the PMU/
PIU must deal with other departments, eg. BPKP. Projects maybe better managed
from within existing structures, provided clear responsib1lity-is assigned.
This would avoid artificial distinctions being drawn (para. 4.11).
13,05    Limiting the geoaraohical disgersion of the physical works was another
innovative feature of this project. It was also found to be beneficial
(para. 4.13).
13.06    Coincidental tor at least overlaDo1na) orecaration of detailed desian
and well drilling in areas of hydrological uncertainty with project preparation
Is advantageous in ensuring an early start to the project and can reduce
duplication of effort (para. 4.14).
13.07    The use of stockoiled material procured before the project (financed
from other proJects) to ensure civil construction can comnence immediately
after loan signing is a very useful approach (para. 4.15). Much of the material,
especially pipe is standard so there is little risk that inappropriate material
will be Incorporated into the works. The approach however demands strong
logistics organtzation.
Proect& Imlementati2on
13.08    Laroer work oackagq  facilitated by larger budget allocation is
desirable. Implementation of the works in numerous small packages placed a
heavy workload of administration and bid document preparation onuPMU/PIU and



- 82 -
their consultants. Better results are likely where the GOI portion of funds
is provided in larger blocks, thus enabling larger work packages to be
contracted, for example when SECAL funds were used to provide counterpart
funding in FY 1988/89 for Second East Java Projects (para. 5.07).
13.09    Not all oeoole want piped suoplies in a served area. The design
assumptioh that 100X of people in the service area would take water from the
piped supply was found to be incorrect (just as was the assumption that 50X of
the served population would take water from public taps). Oesigns after this
project recognize this, particularly the fact that people prefer to receive
water through their own connection (paras. 5.04, 5.06 and 5.06).
13.10    Imoroved access  is 1mowrtant in ensuring a demand for piped water. This
experience of how demand for piped water can be affected by accessibility offers
a good illustration for a major lesson learned; that is, if an improved water
source is to be provided, it must be dot only be less costly, more reliable and
of better quality than the existing source, but also more accessible. Thus
project preparation should ensure that the true cost of piped water is in fact
less than that from traditional sources (thus providing a quantitative answer
to the question : Are people willing to pay?) while detail design, among other
matters, should ensure there are no physical obstacles to people's access to
that piped water (para. 5.08).
13.11    Difficulty in achieving oublic taps numbers also illustrates the
importance of access to ensuring there is demand for project facilities. There
is demand for water via public taps but they must be located close to areas of
poverty, have appropriate administrative arrangements and their construction
preceded by "community related activities'. Ways need to be fcund to provide
WE's with an Incentive to promote these facilities, particularly as their
locations may need changing as communities grow (paras. 5.09, 6.44 and 6.45).
Low cost house connections however lesson the importance of public taps.
13.12    Ingludina connection construction in the project works makes water
available to consumers as soon as sourceworks are complete and ensure early
generation of funds. Furthermore, besides ensuring connections are available
at reasonable cost, this arrangement provides feed back to the project.
management on comnissioning and operational matters.
13.13    Special attention to orocureMent of materials is useful because under
the project it was noted that (i) early material procurement is essential to
ensure overall project progress in not effected (para. 5.12), (ii) decentral-
ization of implementation will burden local logistics sections (who then need
support) (para. 5.t5), (iii) N & E equipment supply contracts are the most
frequently delayed and are better contracted as asupply and Install' (paras.
5.15 and 8.03) and (iv) bid and contract documentation, and contractor's
abilities, need development (Chapter 8).
13.14    Commissionlng of the Xorks require allocation of time, skilled
personnel and budget. The allocation of these rosources becomes more important
where construction is drawn out over som years and contracts. Attention to
these matters is. likely to avoid situations such as In Kabupaten Sidoarjo,
where the POAN was slow to commence operation and maintenance of the project
works. This was despite various written agreement between central, provincial
and local government prior to project implementation. This case Illustrates
that if local aspirations are to be met, local governments must be more involved
in and responsible for provision of p'ervices. In sectoral projects they need
to be consulted frequently and budgets direct through them where possible.



-    -
13.15   Considerable consultant services are necessary to prepare projects
and kep a "pipeline" of projects available. Furthermore future technical
assistance requirements are not easily estimated during project preparation but
a lot of effort should be given to this if revision of the project once approved
is to be minimized. TA requirements need to be clearly identified prior to
appraisal and increased attention given to the TA components of the project
both during project preparation and implementation (paras. 5.05, 5.17 and 8.19).
Prolect Results - Technical
13.16   Further demand for water exists even though full production capacity
(based on providing an average of 60 litre per person/day) has been reached in
most BNA towns. The need for further expansion of the systems will soon arise
(para. 6.03). 
13.17    Chlorinstio of supplies is still erratic and boiling of water is still
common in project towns. Water campaigns can help overcome objections to
chlorinated water but special attention needs to be focussed on provision of
suitable equipment and on the operation and maintenance of that equipment.
13.18   Reduction in unaccounted-for-water levels is more difficult than
foreseen in early times but nevertheless Is vital for improved cost recovery.
Accurate metering of all sources is essential, as Is high quality supervision
and materials, while systems need to be developed to improve administrative
control (para.6.08). The lessons of experience with UFW have already been
learnt as special training programs are in place, a number of specific UFW
proJects are being formulated and WE monitoring and performance assessment now
incorporate UFW considerations (para. 6.09).
13.19   The IKK continuous flow concept by use of a flow restrictor device
has been found unsuitable because the devices are invariable tampered with.
Once some are broken, the system operation is disturbed and many users are
deprived of a supply. Furthermore, in thoory the IKK approach is a lower cost
method of supply than BNA systems but in this project they have been found to
be more expensive in terms of capital and operating costs. In general, greater
consideration is needed of sociological factors In the design of water supply
systems. Future IKK systems will be designed on an a more individual basis
using a more traditional approach, which would probably incorporate water
meters (paras. 6.10 to 6.12).
13.20    Further investwmnt in unaradina of IKKp by inclusion of water meters
and some remedial programmes should be considered as this is likely to greatly
Improve existing IKK operation (para. 6.12 (b) and ()).
Rrolect Results - Financial and Institutional
13.21    Cost recovery thouah tariff adluast  (by increasing base rates,
progressivity end correct classification of consumers) can be improved greatly,
as the case of POAN Sido.rjo demonstrates. But tariffs must be regularly
reviewed and increasd if cost recovery ts to be truly achieved. For both
PDAM's and SPAN's the final decision lays with the local government involved,
so attention should be given to ensuring responsible officials are aware of
the background calculations and consequences of setting unrealistic tariff
levels (pares. 6.16 to 6.19). The full goat of depreciation however must be
accounted for if funds are to be genor#ted for further expansion (pare. 6.20).
Further awareness of the noed to. recover costs can be generated through



- 84 _
decentralizing delivery (para. 6.23) ofi local government public service under
the IUIDP approach.
13.22    Kabuoaten-wide POAMs as introduced under this project is a viable
concept as they become more efficient in terms of staffing, but they need more
encouragement to operate IKK systems in their present form (para. 6.27).
Moreover the Institutional development assistance to PDAM's through CK projects
is beneficial but difficulties exist because : (i) PDAM staff loyaties are
centred in a different Ministry (Home Affairs) than those providing the
assistance (CK/PPSAB); coordination difficulties thus easily arise, (ii) high
turn-over of PDAM staff and (1i1) the trainers for such assistance
sometimes
presently are not highly experienced. Organizational shortcomings in many
PDAMs are well recognized and an increasingly active role of the MHA is expected
to improve their performance (para. 6.30).
13.23    Progress on trainina and training delivery systems under the project
have been encouraging. The wide range of training software and hardware must
now be widely disseminated and utilized (para. 6.33, 6.34).
13.24    Poverty alleviation strategies can be included In projects through
careful design of proJect elements involving public taps, favourably priced
house connections and incentives/assistance to WEs (para. 6.45).
ProJect Sustainab1 itv
13.25    Sustained operations will depend upon sales and revenue improving,
which in turn depend upon demand being maintained or increasing. This can be
assured by the WEs providing a good (reliable) service as well as competitively
priced water. To do this 0 & M and management must improve further and continued
assistance provided to sector organizations such as PMDU and PTU (paras. 7.03
to 7.08).
Performance of Suvollers
13.26    Experience of mechanical and electrical sugglv contracts indicate
they take the longest to complete so should be tendered as early as possible,
they should make more use of working specifications than at present and be
not only for supply, but also installation (paras. 8.03, 8.05).
Performance of Borrower
13.27    The success of deconcentration of implementation responsibility is
a factor behind the relative success of this project. over the life of the
project many responsibilities for implementing and monitoring (eg. payments,
contracting and disbursement monitoring) have been handed-over from DAB in
Jakarta to PPSAB/PMU in East Java. This has not been to the detriment of the
project work in East Java. It is concluded that strict control from the
central ministry is not always necessary In ensuring project success in the
provinces (paras. 9.01, 9.02).



- 85 -
ProJect Documentation -and Data
13.28 The Staff Ap2raisal Report is a vital document for control of the
project and is likely to be the most widely referenced document luring the
project life (other than aide-memoires). It should therefore be as accurate and
explicit as possible. In particular, the unambiguous Identification of proposed
contracts, costs and Technical Assistance should be pursued (paras. 12.03,
12.04).
13.29 All pro.ect documents relating to the project should be available in a
library/reference centre, particulary audit reports, contracts and final
reports/recommendations of consultants. The responsibility for up-keep of
this centre should be clearly delegated at the project's outset. This could
form the basis for a "control system" during project implementation
(para. 12.07).
t~~~~~~~~



- 86 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2275-IND)
PART III
PART III: STATISTICAL INfORVATION
1  Relatd Bonk LoOns and Credits La
Loan/Crodit
Loan/Credit     Title         Amount         Purpose                       Approved   Statue
(m million)
Ln.1049-IND  (First) Water      14.6   Improve and extend water supply
Supply                     systems in five cities               1974    Comploted
Ln.1709-IND  Second Wster       36.5   Improve end extend water supply
Supply                     systems In the seven cities          1979    Completed
Ln.2275-INO  (First) East       a0.6    Iprove and extend water supply
Java Water                 systes in 60 cities/towns            1903     Completed
Supply Lk
Ln.2632-INO  Second East        43.3   Improve and extend water supply
Java Water                 systems In some 75 towns             19 S    Ongoing
Supply
Ln.J219-IND  Second Jebotabsk  190.0   Improve and extend water supply
Urban Dovelopment          system In greater Jxkarta            1990    Ongoing
Project (JUOP tS)
j   Only projects In the water subsetor. ProJect In other urban subsectore not included.
Subject of this PCR.
2.  Prolect Timetable
Planned              Revised                     Actual
Item                               Date                   Date                       Date
Appraisal                            --                                            --/06/82
Loan Negotiations                    --                                            03/08/83
Board Approval                   05/17183                                          05/03/83
Loan Signature                       --                                            05/31/83
Loan Effectiveness                   --                                            09/05/83
Completlon                       12/31l87                                          12/31/90
Loan Closing                     06/30/89              08/31/89; 03/31/90          12131190
Final Disbursement                   --                                           05/13191
3.  Loan bLsbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY84    FY95     FY56    FY87    FYM8       FY69    FY90   FP91
Appralsl setimate         0.6      3.7    10.7    1S.4    26.0    30.6    80.6    30.6
Actual                     0.9      5.3    14.6    22.7    26.7    80.6    80.2    80.6
Actual as X of estimate    15.      143      187      123      110       99       9S      100



Project Implementation Schedule
I   _ w 5-   W     E T 1~~~~~~4    I 2  3        I  1       1  1 3  4   1 2  3  4  .      1 2  3  4  4            41
-~11 @                        I D__               ___                      _   .                          - 
-      E    _  eg-g                  . -v-._       
- g t000                -                                                                                   N
9CMedWStE                                                                         _ 0         
IM ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~           
T~~Amg. Es S~~~~~~u.fl                                                                    * ** * **P. R  p
1 1~~~~~~~~~~U3
sums
.iag                                      LJ _-    I I                =- 1--1-       
Code: a - Bid                                           F - Fabricate
E - 1vali,ate, award and sign contract            D - Deliver                   - U8



5.A
- 88 
Proiect Cost and Financing
(Appraisal Estimate v/s Actual)
Current Rp               Current US$
(billion)                 (million)
Apr      Act   In;-r    Apr       Act   Incr
(Dec)                   (Dec)
Water Works                             (^i;)                    (%)
Civil             15.89    13.00           22.70    14.12
Equipment         13.15    14.95           18.79    11.71
Land              --         0.40          --         0.65
Total           29.04    33.35   15    41.49    26.48  -36
Technical &
Advisory Serv.)              5.86       )             4.85
6.57                     9.39
Other Technical & )             12.93       )             9.16
Advisory Serv.
Total            6.57    18.79  186       9.39    14.01   49
PMU/PIU               --         1.31           --        0.97
Bank Fee               0.05      0.05            0.08     0.08
TOTAL                 35.66    53.50   50    50.95    41.54  -18
Financed By
Bank Loan             21.42    41.17           30.60    30.53
GOI Grant             14.25    12.57           20.35    11.01
TOTAL                 35.67    53.74           50.95    41.54
=   = =        =        = =   = =       =        _ =   = =        = =   = =        =        = =   = =      =        = =   = =        = =   = =        =        _ =   = =        =        = = 
l~~~~~~~~~~
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



89 -
5.B                                        !
Allocation of Proceeds from Loan
(US$ 000's)
CATEGORY                             AMOUNT OF                AMOUNT
LOAN ALLOCATED          DISBURSED
1. (a)  Civil Works, 45% IBRD            8,700                    4,730
(b) Civil works Part "A"
Contracts signed on or
after 01-04-86 but not
later than 31/3/87 or
after 31/12/89, 90%
IBRD                                                      1,509
TOTAL                       8,700                    6,239
2.  Equipment                            11,300                  10,201
3.  Consultant Services                  5,100                   14,013
4. Fee                                      76                       76
5. Unallocated                           5,427                        0
TOTAL                      30,600                  30,529
. .... ......... ...... .................  .. ... ..A... .........c.e.....ledb
N O T E S: Amount cancelled about US$ 70,000



- 90 -
.0
Status of Loan Covenants
3.04(b)          Provide periodic          Complied    Quarterly technical reports received
reports                                 regularly.
3.06             Establish PMU & PIU        Complied
3.08             Issue Instructions to    Complied
PDAMs
re: (i) Froject
requirements (e.g.,
training, institution
building); (ii)
criteria for tariff,
financial requirements;
and (iii) maintain
accounting system, etc.
3.09             Establish and staff        Partly       Situbondo and Tulungagung became
PDAMs in Situbondo,       complied    PDAMs in March 91.  Tuban is now
Tuban and Tulungagung    with long   scheduled for March 1992.
by 12/84.                  delays                                                l
3.10 (a)         Complete tariff study    Complied    Study completed in October 1985.  The
by 6/84; reflect                        report generally endorses existing
results in national                     national tariff structure.  WEs
guidelines by 6/85.                     instructed by GOI to implement
national structure. Tariff levels
periodically adjusted. PMDU and PMU
help WEs in tariff revision.
3.10 (c)         Complete accounts          In           Collections from GOI agencies is
collection study by       progress      about one year.  However, there are
12/83; implement by                     difficulties with collection of
12/84.                                  accounts from armed forces.  Fresh
efforts are under way to collect
accound due.
3.11 (a)         Develop and strengthen   Complied    At least 9 consultancy contracts
PDAMs, Cipta Karya and                  related to training valued at more
DAB through training,                   then US$1.7 million completed under
etc.                                    Loan 2275.  Program now for
additional field training in con-
junction with Second East Java
Project enterprises. There is a need
for more staff resources within water
enterprises and Cipta Karya for
longer-term technical training
programs.
WE - Water Enterprise (could be either PDAM or BPAM)



- 91 -
Status of Loan Covenants
Section of               Subject           Compliance                 Remarks
Loan Agreement                             Status
4.02 (a)        Maintain separate          Complied    Quarterly technical reports received
accounts re: project                   regularly.
PDAMs.
(b)        Maintain separate         Complied
accounts for SOE.
(c)        Independent Audit of      Complied
Project accounts in
4.02 (a) & (b) within 7
months of FY end.
(d)        (i)  establish accrual   Complied    (i)  Main problem however, is still
accounting system.                     the incomplete data on fixed
(ii) Independent audit   Complited          assets, even though the 8 WEs
within 7 months of  with long          already have audited opening
FY for PDAMs,        delays            balance sheets.  PMDU/PMU are
Malang, Madium                         investigating problems (see 4.04
Hojokerto and                          (c)).
Sidoarjo start-                   (ii) Most audits had qualifications
ing  for FY84.                         on comments from auditors.  PKDU
Sampang,                               and PMU assist WEs to eliminate
Situbondo, Tuban                       those qualifications.
and Tulungagung
_____________    starting for FY86.
4.03            PDAMs to take out          Complied
insurance.
4.04 (a)        Gross operating revenue  Complied    Revenues from the five PDAHs cuyered
not less than operating  in recent   0 & M depreciation.  However, because
expenses and              years        some of the assets have not yet been
depreciation for PDAMs                 legally transferred to WEs, it is
difficult to determine whether lhe
recorded depreciation expense
reflects the actual use of assecsa.
In the case of the three BPAKs, the
revenues covered 0 & M expenses, but
not the depreciation.
4.04 (b)        Periodic review of PDAM  Complied    Tariffs are revised periodically.
tariffs                                All PDAM/BPAM's recieve instruction
and assistance from PMDU/PMU on
tariff calculations.



- 92 -
.e                 ,~~~~~~~1
StatuJ of loan CoVenants
Sectlon of              Subject           Compliance                Remarks
Loan Agrement  __                _        Status
4.04 (c)        Tranufer assets to        In          Jolnt Departmental Team established
PDAn on completlon of   progress    at central government level with
construction,                         responslbillty for expedlting the
trausfer of assets throughout
Indonesia, including project PDAMs.
Three of the five sequential steps
__________       ___________________   __________  already    taken.
4.04 (d)        Apply deprecLation to    Complled    Prlnclple extended by Central
improvement and          legally      Government through pHA lnstruction.
expansion                             The problem is that the depreclation
allowance used by a few WEs may be
less than the "faLr wear and tear" of
the assets ln actual operatlon (see
4.04 (a) and (c)]. Should thls be
the case, then those PDAMs whlch pass
on the share of their proflts to
their local governments, could in
fact be transferrLng some of the
depreciation allowance to local
goverrments and thereby contravening
the covenant.
4.05            Government to pay water  In           See 3.10(c) Needsi concerted effort
bills withln 60 days     progress    and follow-up
startlng FY85
4.06            Connection charges        Complied    [Payment period for non-project
based on cost.  Payment               connectlons about a year or even
over 3 to 5 years from                lower]
connection date



93 -
8.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                     Final
Through Appraisal                                                             8
Appraisal through Board Approval                                               4
Board Approval through Loan Effectiveness
Supervision
Total
B. Miisions /a
Stage of                     No. of   Weeks in Specialization   Performance   Type of
Project Cycle   Month/year persons   Field   Represented lb  Rating Status  Problems
Appraisal           6/82         4         2        E,F.T,O
Post Appraisal      4/83         2         2          E.I
Supervision
I             12/83         3        1          E,F,I
II              4/84         2        1           E,F
III              8/84         2         1          E,F
IV              4/85         2        1           E,F
V             11/85         2         1          E,F
VI              7/86         1         1           F
VII             11/86         2         1          E,F
VIII              4/87         3         1         E,E,F
IX             11/87         2        1           E.F
X              2/88         3        1          E,F,T
6/88         1        1            F
XI             11/88         2         1           F
XII              3/83         2         1          E,F
XIII             10/89         3         1         E,F,I
XIV              2/90         2         1          E.F
XV              7/90         3         1         E.F.I
/a  Supervision Missions included more than one project.  There were also other
field missions which provided a brief review of the project. One staff member
from RSI generally participated in most missions.
/b  E = Economist: F = Financial Analyst; I = Institutional Specialist; and
T = Training.



- 94 -
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY
Project Description 11
The following description taken mainly from the Loan Agreement
describes the parts which the project is comprised of:
Part A:   The waterworks part, which covers the establishment and improvement
of 13 BNA and 37 IKK (refer to paras. 2.04 and 2.05) piped wster
supply systems in eight selected areas in East Java (Kotamadya
Madiun and the Kabupaten of Malang, Mojokerto, Sampang, Sidoarjo,
Situbondo, Tuban and Tulungagung), such systems to include source
development, pumps and motors transmission and distribution pipe,
service reservoirs and treatment where appropriate, service
connections and public standpipes, and miscellaneous equipment and
office and workshop space; and replenishment of water works
equipment and material stores for use in East Java Province.
There are eight existing systems in the 13 BNA cities; five will be
abandoned because of age and inefficiencies, and three will be
integrated with the proposed subprojects. There are no existing
systems in the 37 IKK towns.
Water sources would be either spring or tubewells since these have
been determined to be lowest cost and capable of producing water of
sufficient quantity and quality. Gravity pressure systems will be
used where feasible to avoid the need for pumping equipment and
recurrent energy costs. Pipes will be of polybutylene,
polyvinylchloride or asbestos cement, reservoirs of r6inforced
concrete. Service connections for BNA subprojects would be metered,
for IKK subprojects, fitted with flow restrictors (flow restricted
service connections enable the distribution system to be of lower
capacity and hence of lower costs. They also eliminate meters and
costly volume-based billing. Their disadvantage is that the
consumer cannot instantaneously draw a large volume of water,
thereby necessitating in-house storage). Water from all systems
would be chlorinated and meet WHO Drinking Water Standards; most
systems would meet these standards without treatment (for those few
systems where treatment is required, only aeration is necessary).
Sanitation is not included in the Project but is being addressed
under other government programs, including those of INPRES and
1/   Taken from Loan Documents.



- 95 -
ANNEX A
,P                         Page 2 of 3
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP),2/ and government will
coordinate those programs with water supply to the extent feasible.
Part Bs   1.   Developing and strengthening the Project PDAMs by providing
organization, management, accounting and operations assistance
and training.
2.   Strengthening Cipta Ka!ya, including DSE, and the water supply
training program inter alia by providing technical assistance
and equipment and by training staff.
Part C:   1.    Strengthening the capabilities of the project management and
implementation units (PMU/PIU), inter alia by providing
technical assistance (project management and engineering).
2.   Strengthening the provincial unit responsible for assisting and
monitoring the management and operation of the PDAMs of East
Jav_ Province.
3.   Carrying out a study, based on the Project PDAMs, of
(a) tariffs which would remain affordable to consumers and
produce satisfactory levels of financial performance including
capital cost recovery, (b) phasing of implementation of such
tariffs, and (c) alternative methods of capital cost recovery
includirng recommendations on institutional arrangements and
mechanisms for collection and reinvestment of funds at
national, provincial and kabupaten levels.
4.   Carrying out a study on the administrative, technical and other
problems affecting collection of water charges, using as case
studies areas assisted.under Bank financed projects.
5.   Reviewing and improving planning and design criteria for water
supply projects.
6.   Preparing future water supply projects, including (a) a project
to assist establish or improve other Kabupaten-wide WE's in
East Java and (b) a aimilar project in North and South
Sulawesi.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.
21   INPRES is presidential funding source which is provided directly to
provincial and kabupaten projects of their choice. KIP is a program to
improve the quality of crowded urban areas; typically it covers walks,
roads, drains, water supply and sanitation. KIP is financed in part by
the Bank's urban development loans.



- 96 
ANX A
Page 3 of 3
LIST OF SUBPROJECTS UNDER PART A
BNA                                       IKK
KAB. MADIUN                               KAB. MALANG
1. Kodya Madiun                           1. Bululawang
2. Turen
RAB. MALANG                                 3. Bantur
2. Lawang                                 4. Donomulyo
3. Batu                                   5. Dampit
4. Singosari                              6. Gondanglegi
5. Kepanjen                               7. Ampelgading
8. Pagak
KAB. MOJOKERTO                              9. Sumbermanjing
6. Mojosari
IAB. SITUBONDO
KAB. SAMPANG                               10. Besuki
7. Sampang                               11. Panji
12. Jatibanteng
KAB. SIDOARJO                              13. Arjasa
8. Kodya Sidoarjo                        14. Kapongan
9. Krian
KAB. SAMPANG
RAB. SITUBONDO                             15. Camplong
10. Panarukan                             16. Kedundung
17. Robatal
KAB. TUBAN                                 18. Ketapang
11. Tuban                                 19. Sokobanah
KAB. TULUNGAGUNC                          KAB. MOJOKERTO
12. Tulungagung                           20. Puri
13. Ngunut                                21. Ngoro
22. Bengasl
23. Trowulan
24. Kemlagi
25. Dawarblandong
KAB. TUBAN
26. Plumpang
27. Soko
28. Jatirogo
29. Tambakboyo
RAB. SIDOARJO
30. Taman
31. Tulangan
32. Tanggulangin
33. Wonoayu
KAB. TULUNGAGUNG
34. Sendang
35. Campurdarat /a
36. Sumbergempol
37. Karangrajo
La Campurdarat replaced the to'nt of Rejotangan with IBM agreement.



- 97 -
t                       ~~~~~~~Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY
Malor Prolect Revisions
Subproject and Revision                               Rooson                           Approx. cost
Part A (Water Works Construction)
A. All IKKo except   Turon   ontur.       Highor than expected operating costs of    + Rp 160 -
D_mpit. Psaok Pl umpsna. Soko.        gonaets because:  (i) fuel price
Jntiroso. Tambakboyo. Arises          incrooses as 001 subsidies lowered.
Kedundunp/Robstal, Kotasana.           (i1) pilfering of fuel.
Sokobanah                             (111) *xpansive perts for g noote and
lower than expected efficioncy of small
(1) Connect to the Java electri-      pumps.
cal power grid (PLN)                  (iv) lack of skilled mointnenneo per-
sonnel In the field.
B. All BNA Towns
(1) reduce number of public taps      (1) observed little use by the public        - Rp 200 -
from 1,183 to about 260               of thoso constructed.
(il) difficulties In administration and
WE reluctance to promote.
(Mii) acquisition of land difficultios
in built-up areas.
(2) Delete "yard connectionO type    (t) many houses not roady to receive a        Rp 0 m
of service (ineluding flow roo-       sorvice Inside the structure, while
trictor) and replace with a house    provision of a yard top would encourage
connection plus a yard top as         use of piped water.
standard.                              (II) flow rostrictors considered
Inappropriate In DNA towns, and
(ill) simplify connection classifica-
tion for billing purposes.
C. POAMD Maduna
SNA Madung:
(1) Iron and manganose removal        Low l-vels indicated In final design         - Rp 160. 
plun, t deleted,                      water sample test results.
(2) Source works Ineluding 2          If water roquired treatment for        }
wolls and a 760 m elovated             Iron and mangaono, this could be 
roesrvoir doloted at Oro-oro Ombo    accoemodated better at ono site. 
sito in fator of locating all                                                3     0 (Neutral)
works at the Ngoro site. 
(8) P;pes leading from Ngoro site    To reduce head loss with increased   }
*nlorg*d.                             flows                                  }
(4) Length of small diamter die-    Improve access to supplies by increas-         + Rp 400 a
tribution pipe Incrcased approxi-    Ing connections number, which were
mately 100% from 68 to 104 km in      below target.  This ensured distribu-
1988 and 1999.                        tion system development kept pace with
production cupacity.
D. PDAM Malang
IKK Bululawang:
(1) changed from borehole to          Insufficient groundwater afber test  3
spring (Sbr. Kend. Pay.)              well constructted. 
}.    *Rp 26 a
(2) Additional spring (Sbr.           At PDAM's request, to provide more   }
Ngebul) and transmission pipe         then standard 190 connection, as 
added.                                demand very strong. 



- 98 -
Page 2 of 2
Subprojoet and Revision                                Reason                           Approx. cost
IKK Dampit:
(1) 1.2 km transmission main          Excessive demand (unrestricted supply)        + Rp 18 m
added to serve low level area          In low level areas deprived high level
independently of high level area.    areas of supply under the original
(pumped) scheme.
IKK Pagnk:
(a) Original choice of spring         Minimize length of transmission main }
(Sbr. Suling) and tronsmlosion                                               }
main deleted in favor of a closer 
pumped sprIng (Sbr. Nangka) and                                               }
addition of a slow sand filter to                                             }
remove turbidity experienced In                                                       Rp aom 
wet season. 
(2) Source work constructed at                                                }
original spring Including 8 km                                                }
transmission main. 
(3) Add approx. 100 extra house       High demand from unserved households.         + Rp 6 m
connections.
E. PDAM Molokerto
tM Mojosari:
(1) Abandon production woll Nr. 2    PDAM objections relating to closenoes          + Rp 40 M
before equipping; move pumping         of well No. 2 to coemtery.
equipment and procure transmis-
sion main and control cable and
panol to make use of toet well In
19"7/88.
(2) 6 km of distribution pipe          Improve access and thoreby reach             + Rp 56 m
addod (17X of total) In 1989/69.       targeted connection numbers.
(8) Drill now production well and    (I) Test well found to have lower ylold    + Rp 60 m
*quip, In 1990.                        than measured at construction and
(ii) failure of well development work
to Improve the test well yield.
F. POAM Samoana
BNA Sompang:
(1) Length of distribution system    Improve access thereby genorating              + Rp 150 m
piping approximately Increased by    demand for more connections, the number
IOOX (16 to 80 km) In 1988/89.         of which had not r eched torget by
1988.
KIK Ketapang:
(1) Addition of a 6 1/sec package    To troat turbid spring water In the wet    + Rp 70 m
troatment plant In 199-.               season.
0. BPAM Situbondo
BNA Panarukan:
(1) Length of dltributlon pipe        Improve access, thereby Increasing           + Rp 110 m
Increased from 21 km to 88 km          connection to achieve targets.
approx. In 1988 and 09.



- Q  -                     ANEX C
Bactevrolosmtal Tests (1989-90)
E"e Java Province
-  - -
-                      |           U ;tsvdy    K T S R I O L O G 1
tlotauadya     .    _K SR0L 0
6                                      1'Uap    ._ -P te Due Wells
KabupatOs                                                 -  
Toa _____   __ _J   cou    total   Good   Good-
j.t1JGK.LLAN           14      12  95.?        7       1    14,2
. UxLMACI               3       3   100        2       0     0
BLITAR                  C       c C O          0       0      0
*  LlR  (i;O)           61    5   83,3         5       0      0
IsOJONZ,10RO            16      8 i 50         6       2    33,3
tiOtl-DOUGcsjo          7       4   57,14    -0        0     0
G R G S I !;       l            8   100        0       0      0
J Z M 3 E R           l10      59   53,63    10        1    10
v G C Z4    ; r          3      I * "309       2       0      0
K hD I R I              3       3   100   !            0      0
KKZDIRI (KO)            7       1   14,28 j            O      0
|                       1,xl'.QtlG.,N   j   t6  5   31,25 |  O|  . 0
5      t   2C         0       0      0
I                           0It  N  O  O    0     0       0      0
I :, OI'IN (KC)*           19  t1 I  57,89        0       0      0
| hGUTAN                   15      3   ZO         0       0      0
MALANG *               97      57   58,76      0       0      O
NJbL^NG (KO)             6      5  ,83,3       0       0      0
:40JOKERTO*                          i 8   tOO,  0     0      0
7/OJOIZRTO (.KO)         3      3   100         0      0      0
; c:i"NJUK              45     42   93,33      0       0      0
W 1 ^ w r    l   13       8   61,53 |0           0     0
' CI1.Jt                7       7   100        0       0      0
l  luiStL,.dJ   ,       , 2     a    0    J   2        0
| !aUBU . t; 5  0 OO   P,     1    50
F;;.(KG)      10      6    60        0       0      0
P'5tOVORG0         | t14        6    42,85    5        1    20
P'05BLMI0GGC           14       4 |  28,57    0        0     0
PI..U01G.i;O  (1;0)    13            23,3     0       0     0
28      5    17,8      0       0      0
SIDO.IORJC*            47      29    61,7      0       0      0
'LTUWBfDO*              7         |  71,42    0        0     0
vi:A;SNEP         '   29      isa  62,06    4         a    so
t;ULASAYj (KO)        1211    832    68,7      8       1    12,5
~~REIIG0~~LZK     0                      0s 40   0     0
T U U A N *   104      25 !24,03       O       O     O      .
-    .u UBANe        -o         ao               0 
T'ULUNMMOWIG*            4         lot         0       0  
*        L.*1         190-1  7t92    6z,7    66        9    13,63
*  ank assisted Projects (Loae 2275-ND)
4.



-  .00 -                                         ANN
PHYSICAL RESULTS
eCI,.tuated    Actual)
les      c    -W               so ze  t   zo  o     0
Act.     M       AO%.i   too       w        Co.       et
1   3.g"cdilty  lPS                       75      126      105.    126       1        125      178
2. W  eon producoln (800 .             2,000   8,560   2,354    8,780   8,406   8,669   8,478
S. water slet  t(00 m)                 1,820   2,960   2,076   *,090   2,815   8,210   2.481
4 UFW x                                   84       17       27       17       82       17       80
5. Connectlons                         2,781   11,160   7,546. 11,060   S.9O8  12,170  10,650
6  Population served (000)                16      100       48      108.      61      106       52
7. U                    seprloyee         07       98      109       98      to0       96      110
U. Employes/1,000 connect.
M- snVulacipge   Ips)                    106      208      809      208      814      200      814
2  Water productoln (000 N)            2,J00   0,670   7, 34   7, 00   9,748   6,S30   9,59C
8: Water solos (000 O72                1,640    670   5,918   6,830    7,795   7,290   0,164
4. UPW X                                  20       is       li0      is       20       15       15
S. Connections                         5,260  22,690 22,8004  25,840  26,397  23,980  23,SS8
. Population served (000)                 so      215      139      240      222      274      245
7. WE employees                          120      216      199      241      214      275      215
O  oployeee/1,OO connect.
1. I    p-cIf lty (Ip                   58       SI       73       es       04       as      108
2 Water productIon (      S)             6oo90   1,700   1,265   2,180   2,644   2,670   4,716
8. Water sales (000 sk)                  480   1,450       714   1,650       *39   2,270   1,089
4 UFW X                                   8        15       38       15       66       15       76
56 Connections                           808   5,000   1,809   7,130    1,890   3,6o,  8,588
6P opulation served (000)                  6       5$       14       6s       14       S1       29
7. K employoee                            26       57       51       72       65       so       70
a Imployees/1,000 connect.
Knb. Smnpn
. tI1. copocIt  ('p)                      82       9N      122       so6     185       9       147
2. Water product on (0   )               957   16000   1,674   1,620   2 252   2,040   2,548
8. Water sales (000  )                   760   1.800   1,160   1,550   1,834   1,780   1,522
4. UfW X                                  20       16       38       15       40       15       40
6. Connections                         2,760    6,340  4,4611   6,620   5,126    7,890   5,200
6. Population served (000)                29       55       46       8a       56        9       50
7  UE employes"                           44       5o       74       66       I6       74       I5
. Employee /1,000 connect.
Knb. Slod rlo
.L :'L"  1y CIP6) as                        119       63      129       63      119      6o
2 W     ro58so       90 ^                 6a  a8,30        415   4,850       807   4,700       874
S.       sales (000 U)                 2,441   8,260   2,63    8,690   2 eo2   8,900   8.082
4. UPW                                    15       1S       24       15       24       15       13
t. Connet.lonc                         8,367  18,590   6,478   15,170   7,006   16,780   16,122
6 Population served (000)                 20      1SO       35      143       87      130       89
7. WU sploysew                            97      1t       to09     152      106      163      110
S. bployee/1,ooo connect.
Kob. fIGubondo
"Pooe  I p 0% Blty                        INpo115  118      164      118               118
2. Water prduc~I np(00 a)                       2, 00   1,270   2,?70   1,295         851   1,768
8. Wat4r sales (000 in)                         1,960      76    2,840    1,088       20   1;,44
.4.                                                 isWU  15  40      14       20       15       24
5  Conneetfon                                   7,560    8,817   9,030  4,6548    1,130   7,235
6. PopulatIon served (000)                         66       28       (2       81      100       43
7. W employees:                                    76       55       01       62      116       70
P. Eaployee./1,000 connet.
K!i    spaooIlw  Vite                              60       75       60        0                St
2 Water peodu  Ion   00 *a                      1,710      610   2,020       3O8      254   1,850
8. Mter *OG (000  )                             1,400      281   1,710       57       216      90
4 UPW                                               15     62       1S       U4       15       83
5. Conneetlons                                  0,190   2,893    7,080   8,24         lo5   5,436
6.Population served (000)                          62       19       74       25       I7       42
7. E employeew                                     62       so       71       is       n        70
I. Eploya,s/1,000 connect.
Kob. Tulunc Asuna
L. In. F.                                         120 InI           120      240 2ps
2  Wate  productIon   00                        T J 4209   5O0   8,750    1,026       409   1,761
8. water sale  (000  )                            9,010    151   8,190       531      U43   1,266
4. UPW X                                           1C       70       15       48       15       28
5. ConnectIons                                 12,410   8,236  18,550    5,t63    1,4U4   7,960
6  Population served (000)                        114       29      126       40      186       34
7. WE *ployee                                     124       5O      186       61      143       67
6. Eployoes/1,000 connect.



-101-
ANNEX E
~1
POAM KABUPATEN SIDCARJO
Income Statemonts In Ro Million
1987             1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    X R       Apr.    Act      Apr     Act
Number of Connectio3s                11,740   5,813  18,6590    ,473  16,170         -  16,760        -
Consumption - 200 m                   2,760   2,746   8,280   2.888   8,690          -   8,990        -
Consumption, m /connoc/month             20       89      20       87      20        -      20        -
X unaccounted for w                            8,r is  24  0      8 24     i0        -        s       -
Water purchases - gm O3                   0 m,294          0   a,392        0        -       0
Production - 000 m                    3,240      296   8,830      415   4,360        -   4,700        -
Purchouod water - Rp/m3                   -      130       -       8O       -        -        -_
Average water tariff, Rp/m3             132      gel     162      377     ISO        -
Connoction fees - annual income           -       85       -      140       -        -        -       -
- carriod forward        -       43       -       98       -        -       -        -
- Rp 000 per now connection         29     n/a       46     212       64               63 
Water revenues  362                     862   1,046      495   1,089      686   1,074      689   2,294
Connection fees charged to PAL          100      190      85      190      86       67      85      190
Current year                            -       42       -       42       -        -       -        -
Brought forward                         -      148       -      148       -        -       -        -
Total Operating Revenues             462   1.237      580   1.279      670   1.941      774   2.404
Purchased Water                           0      429       0      442       0        -        0       -
Personnel                               147      124     18a      186     219      197     269      197
Chemical                                  9       26      12       34       16      56       18     s6
Power                                    63       19      80       19      97       37     112       87
Materials                                29       44     38        46      89      102      47      271
Transportation                           12       26      15       46       16       -       18       -
Direct costs                            200      684     828      722     886        -     44         -
Water retribution                         0        0       0        0       0       12       0       11
Gene;al expensoe                         18       47      21       62      26      585       30     804
Total Operating Expenses             278      711     844      774     411      999     484   1.376
Income before depreciation              184      625     236      506     269      942     290   1,107
Depreciation - booked                   184      219     235      216     267      194     290      197
Operating income                          0      806       1      290       2      748       0      910
Other costs/(rovenuos)                    0        8       0       17       0      219       0        -
Interest paid/(received)                  0        0       0        0       0       67       0       67
Not income                                0      299       1      278       2      909       0      967
Income tax                                0      106       0      104       0      808       0      n/a
Net Income (loss) booked                  0      198       1      169       2      601       0      n/x
Notional adjustments:
Amortization of works in progress       29      498       0      596       0        -       0        -
Interext on real capital employed    610        260     641      278    a65         -     758        -
Income before tax after adjustments -689    -460    -640    -597    -654            -    -74         -
Averago rate base                     6,083   1,899   7,249   1,792   8,244          -   9,084        -
X working ratio                           0       68      59       61      61        -      68        -
X rate of return                          0       i6       0       16       0        -       0        -
X growth total rovenues                  48        6      26        8     16        -       16       -
X growth operating *xpanaem              88        6      24        9      19        -       i8       -
Operating revenues/U'                   168      450     178      448     181        -     194        -
X tariff increase                        28        0      15       -1       4        -        9       -
Tariff in 1989 prices                   151      488     162      898     158        -     161        -
X real tariff incroaso                   20       -8       8       -9      -2        -       2        -
1989 .     includes Rp ... paid for Krirn.



- 102 -
Balance SheetJin Rp million
1987            1988             1989            1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.             Act.    Apr.    Act.
Assets
FPT-Massets in operation
Project at cost                    6,089       0   5,889        0   6,889   3,076   6,889      n/a
Other, at cost                     1,684   2,898   1,729   8,038   1,894        47   2,988       -
Revaluation surplus                1,200       0   1,713        0   2,208      669   2,846       -
Total                           7.973   2.893   8.881   81083   9.649   4.891  11.218         -
Accumulated depreciation             652     966      932   1,171   1,256   1,266   1,634
Not fixed assots                   7,821   1,937   7,899   1,862   8,294   8,028   9,584         -
Work in progress
Project                              800   5,121        0   6,127       0        -       0       -
Other                                100     143      6oo     148   1,000        -     200       -
Total                             400   6.266      600   6.276   1.000   8.026      200       -
Cash and Banks                         393       28     608      87     848      453   1,120       -
Accounts receivable                     74      339      93     268      107     498     124       -
Bad debts                                0      191       0     170       10       -       0        -
Inventories                             23      82       27      0o    38         77      39       -
Other current assets                     0      618       0     149        0     168       0       -
Total Current Assets            8.211   8.440   9.227   8.870  10.282   4.222  11.067
Eauity and Liabilities
Grant* - rroj et                     6,889   5,121   6,389   6,127   6,389       702   5,889       -
- Other                           0     820        0     841       0   1,129        0       -
Total                      65389  56441   5.889   6.468  65.89   1.841   6.389
Revaluation surplus                  1,200        0   1,713       0   2,286        -   2,846        -
Operating surplus                      -74   1,704      -73   1,977      -71       -     -72       -
Subtotal                        6.515   7.146   7.029   8.444   7.583         -   8.163       -
Capital         1,612                 -871   1,512  -1,120   1,610       909   1,612       -
Total EauTty                    8.027   6.774   8.541   7.325   9.093   2.760   9.676
Long term debt (not)                   100        0     600       0   1,100        -   1,238       -
Accounts payablo                        14       41      16      44       19      64      22       -
Curront maturities                       0        0       0       0        0       -      62       -
Total Current Liabilities          14      41       16      44      19       64      84       -
Short term dbt                           0        0       0       0        -       0       -
PLN pyabloo                             70        0      70       0       70       -      70       -
Incoe tax payable                        0     702        0      665      0      821       0       -
Customr guarantee deposit                0      320       0      32        0      41       0       -
Conn. foeu not recorded as Income        0     409        0     359        0     451       0       -
Advance payments, connection toes        0      306       0     289        0     105       0       -
Other liabilities                        0      179       0    2060        0   1,418       0       -
Total Liabilities                 184   1.666      686  1.546   1.189   2.222   1.892
Toto.l Equity A Liabilittoo     8.211   8.440   9.227   8.870  10.282         _1-067
No. days accounts receivable            69      100      59      77      5S        -      68       -
X debt/(nst assets + WIP)                1        0       7       0       12       -      13       -
Working capital, excl. cash             88   1,169      104     603      121       -     141       -
Current ratio                           85       80      46      17      52        -      15       -
X debt/(debt + equity)                   1        0       7       0       11       -      11       -
Assets enter operation               2,477       76     800     140     100        -   1,000       -



_ n3-
PDAM KABURm&EN SAMPANG
Income Statements in RD million
1987             1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr. AF    t      Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Ac.
Number of Conn.ctiogs                 6,330   8,034   8,840   4,481   6,620          -   7,390        -
Consumption - 900 m                   1,200   1,008   1,860   1,166   1,660          -   1,780        -
Consumption, m /connsc/month             19       28      19       21      20               20        -
X unaccounted for 3ator                  15       a5      15       88      16        -       15       -
Production - 000 my                   1,410   1,638   1,600   1,874   1,820          -   2,040        -
Average water tariff, RP/.a             150      161     164      165     176        -      190       -
Connection fees - annual incom            -       11       -       98        -       -        -       -
- 0/w carriod fwd        -        4       -       89       -        -        -       -
- Rp/now connection    65       178      73       67      47        -      48        -
Water revenues                          180      151     224      190     271      227      829     843
Connection fe*e  charged to PLL          30       12      82       14      37       22      37       28
Current year                            -        7       -        9       -        -       -        -
Brought forward                         -        6       -        6        -       -        --
Total Operatinp Revenues             210      168     261      204     308      249     866      371
Pereonnol                                73       48      86       62      106       -      126       -
Chemical                                  7        0       8        0       10       -       12       -
Powor                                    41       26      S0       60       61       -       73       -
Materials                                18       12      21       10       25       -       so       -
Transportation                            3        3       3        3        4       -        6       -
Direct costs                            143       90     168      126     205        -      248       -
Water retribution                         0        0       0        0        0       -        0       -
Conornl expenses                         10       12       11      14       18       -       16       -
Total Operatino Expenses             153      103     179      139     218      166     262      197
Incom  before depreciation               57       6o      81       65       90      98      108     174
Depreciation - booked                    67       26      81       66       67      67      105      70
Operating income                          0       35       0        9        8      26        0      70
Operating subsidy (PEIDA/PPSAB)           -        2        -      17                -        -       -
Interost/other income                     -       10       -        8        -      19        -      14
Net Income                                0       47       0       84        a     46         0     120
Income tax                                0        8       0        7        0      28        0       -
Not income (loss) booked                  0       89        -      26        3      22        0     120
Notional adjustments:
Amortization of works In progrose        0      197       0      168        0       -        0       -
Interest on real capital employod    196         40     201      108     217        -     256        -
Income before tax after adjustments -196    -190    -201    -241    -218            -    -266        -
Avorage rate base                     1,634      260   2,314      606   2,486        0   2,888        -
X working ratlo                          73       68      69       68       71       -       71       -
X rtoe of return                          0       18       0        2        0       -        0       -
X growth total revenues                  84       -8      24       25       18       -       19       -
X growth operating ojpenses              20       10       17      36       21       -       20       -
Operating revenues/M                    175      168     192      176      199       -      212       -
Operating expenses/U' consumed          127      102     182      121      181       -      161       -
x tariff Increase                        14        9      19        8        6       -        9       -
Tariff In 1989 prices                   172      178     176      174      175       -      176       -
X real tariff Increase                    7       -9       2        0       -1       -        2       -



- 104 -
Balance Shoots in RD Ml iIon
1987            1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Xct      Apr      Act     Apr.    Act.
Assets
FTxda-os*sts In operation
Project at cost                     1,880       6   1,860      728   1,860   1,220   1,860   1,266
Other, at cost                        814     438     878      472     646        -     97s        -
Roveluation surplus                   227       0      M8s       0     646        -     726        -
Total                           2.401      441   2.619   1.L95   2.952   1.220   3.569   1.266
Accumulated deprociation              le8    157       280     212     889   (279)      521   (849)
Not ftixed assets                   2,216     284   2,839      983  2,684      941   8,0o8      917
Work in progress
Project                                 0   2,027        0   1,723        0       -       0        -
Other                                 100       0     800        0     400        -     100        -
Total                              100   2.027     800   1.723      400        -     loo
Cash and Banks                           89      77      111     107      141     148     216      242
Accounts receivable                      34      43       42     116       49     172      69      199
Inventories                              13      28       17      36      21       29      26       30
Other current assets                      0       1        0       1       0        2       0        4
Total Current Assets              138      149     170      260     211      846     299     475
Eaulty and Liabilities
Crant  - Proj-ct                      1,860   2,038   1,860   2,446   1,860       775   1,860      775
- Oper Subsidy                    2        0      17        0       0        -       0        -
- Other                           0        0       0        0       0        -       0        -
Total                       1s882   2.033   1.877   2.446   1.860       775   1.860      775
Revaluation surplus                     227       0      383       0      646       -      726       -
Op. surplus excl. subsldy               -12     157      -12     174       -9       -     -1o        -
Subtotal                        2,076   2,190   2,247   2,620   2,396          -   2,676        -
Capital                                 289     204      278     188     288      820     288      888
Total Equity                    2.365  2.896   2.620   2.808   2.604   1.095   2.864   1.161
Long term debt (not)                     80       0      280       0     480        -     538        -
Accounts payable                          8      1o        9      11       10      18      18       49
Current maturities                        0       0        0       0       0       24      27       $I
Total Current Liabilities            8      10       9       11      10       42      40       80
Short term debt                           0       0        0       0        0       -       0        -
PLN poyables                              0       0        0       0       0        -       0        -
Incomo tax outstanding                    0      18       0      184       0        -       0        -
Customer guarantee doposit                0       8        0       6       0        8       0        9
Conn. fots not recordod as lncome         0      25        0     109       0      142       0      141
Other liabilities                         0     -16        0      20       0      150       0      150
Totel Liabilities                  88       66     289      159     490      192     578      280
Total Equitv & Liabilities      2.463   2.460   2.809   2.9es   3.174   1.287   a.487   1.891
No. days pccounts receivable             59      96       69     208       58       -       59       -
X debt/(not assets + WIP)                 3       0       11       0       16       -       18       -
Working capital, excl. cash              41      62       40     142      6o        -      71        -
Current ratio                            17      15       19      28      21        -       7        -
X debt/(debt + equity)                    a       0       10       0       15       -       16       -
Assets enter operation                1,162      48       50     764      150       -     400        -



- 105 -
PDAM KABUPATEN MOJOKERTO
Income Statements in Rp million
1987            1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act. Apr.    Act           Act.ct         Apr.    Act.
Number of Connectio3n                 4,320   1,154   6,660   1,809   7,180         -   8,880        -
Consumption - 300 m                   1,090     780   1,460      784   1,860        -   2,270        -
Consumption, m /connec/month             21      so       21      60      21        -      21
X unaccounted for rater                  18      39       15      88      15        -      15        -
Production - 000 m         s          1,830   1,288   1,700   1,265   2,180         -   2,670        -
Average water tariff, Rp/m              161     132      159     136     1S6        -     179        -
Connection fees - annual income           -      23        -      70       -        -       -        -
- 0/w carried fwd        -      17        -      48        -       -        -       -
- Rp/new connection    23      336       37     461      31        -      28        -
Water sales to Sidoarjo
Water revenues, Total                   175     103      231     107     311      149     408      232
Connection fees put to PkL               30       5      49       22      47       68      42       78
Total Operating Revenues            205      108     280      129     368      205     448     210
Personnel                                59       -       84      46     114       21     149       42
Chemical                                  4       -        5       1       7        2       9        3
Powor                                    27       -       37       1      50       16      86       80
Materials                                17       0       23       9      30       17      39       67
Transportation                            3       -        4       -       5        -       7        -
Direct costs                            110      73      153      67     206        -     270        -
Water retribution                         0       0       0        0       0        6       0        8
General expenses                         11       6       14      28     129       6o      24       62
Total Operating Expenses             121      78     167       85     226      112     294     196
Income before depreciation               84      30    1la        44     138       64     154      118
Depreciation - booked                    84      30      113      34     1S3       38     164       76
Operating income                          0       0        0      10       0       28       0       ?
Other income/(costs)                      -       -        -      -2       -        -       -        -
Net Income                                0       0        0       8       0       26       0       96
Income tax                                0       0       0        4       0        6       0        6
Net Income (loss) booked                  0       0        0       4       0       80       0       39
Notional adjustments:
Amortization of works in progress       58     172       0      193       0        -       0        -
Interest on real capital employed    248       617     080      527     829        -     390        -
Income before tax after adjustments -307    -888    -306    -711    -329           -    -390        -
Average rate base                     2,263     479   3,099      602   3,605        -   4,109        -
X working ratio                          69      73       6o     e6      e6         -      68        -
X rate of return                          0       0        0       2       0        -       0        -
X growth total revenues                  44      13       37      19      28        -      26        -
X growth operating expenses              48       4       38       8      85        -      31        -
Operating revenues/M                    189     las     198      184     194        -     197        -
Operating expenses/m3 consumed          111     100      116     108     122        -     130        -
X tariff Increase                         1      18       -1       4       6        -       6        -
Tariff in 1989 prices                   184     151      170     144    16         -     167        -
X real tariff increase                   -6       4       -7      -5      -1        -      01        -
1987 data based on the four months of PDAM operation.



- 106 
Balance Sheets In Rp Million
1987   _        1988             1989            1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.
Assets
FTrCass*ts in operation
Project at cost                    1,329       58   1,929      S8   1,929   1,378   1,929      n/a
Other, at cost                     1,430   5,884   1,474   5,797   1,730        98   2,399       -
Revaluation surplus                  599  -4,683      790  -4,583  -1,028        -   1,287       -
Total                           _.358   1.179   4.193   1.292   4.887   1.471   6.ls5
Accumulated depreciation             a8e    7800      794     733     982   (889)   1,208        -
Net fixed assets                   2,722     479   8,399      669   3,704      602   4,409       -
Work in progress
Projk ct                             800   1,783        0   1,982       0        -       0       -
Other                                200       0      soo       0     800        -     200       -
Total                             800   1,783      500   1,982     600        -     200       _
Cash and Banks                         128      62      187      52     226       59     322        -
Accounts receivable                     33       37      46      88       57      71      72       -
Inventories                             12      68       17      Z1      22       66      29       -
Other current assets                     0        1       0       0       0        -       0       -
Total Current Assets              173     166      229     149     304      185     423       _
Equity and Liabilities
Grants - Project                     1,929   1,821   1,929   2,040   1,929        58   1,929       -
- Other                           0       -       0        -       0      23        0       -
Total                       1.929   1.821   1.929   2.040   1.929       81   1.929        -
Revaluation surplus                    699  -4,653      790  -4,583   1,028        -   1,287       -
Operating surplus                      -73    -262      -73    -244     -72        -     -73       -
Subtotal                        2,466  -2.994   2,848  -2.767   2.884        _   3.143        -
Capital                              1,084   5,386   1,073   5,379   1,073    568   1,073          -
Total Equity                    3.619   2.391   8.719   2.81  3S.457       649   4.218        -
Long term debt (net)                   198       0      400       0     840        -     782
Accounts payable                         7        1       9       2      12       21      18       -
Current maturities                       0       0        0       0       0        -      S8       -
Total Current Liabilities           7       1        9       2      12       31      54       -
Short term debt                          0       0        0       0       0        -       0-
PLN payables                             -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Income tax outstanding                   0       0        0       4       0        6       0       -
Customer guarantee deposit               0       0        0       1       0        2       0       -
Conn. fees not recorded as Income        0      17       0-     a6        0       94       0       -
Other liabilities                        0       0        0       5       0        5       0       -
Total Liabilities                 176      18     409       77     652      107     8le       _
Total Equity & Liabilities      8.696   2.409   4.128   2.890   4.6o9       787   S.032       _
No. days accounts receivable            59      128      59     187      S8        -      59       -
X debt/(net assets + WIP)                5       0       10       0      15        -      17       -
Working capital, excl. cash             38      104      58      96      67        -      17       -
Current ratio                           26     S38       26      93      26        -       8       -
X debt/(debt + equity)                   s       0       10       0      14        -      1s       -
Assets enter operation                 919       0      600     113     200        -     600       -



- 107
PDAM KASUPATEN MALANG
Income Statements in Rp Million
1987            1988             1989             1990
Apr.    At7 Act.   Ar. 19r A  7                   Apr.    Act.
Number of Conn.ctiogs                17,520  17,144  22,690  22,804  26,840         -  28,930        -
Consumption - D00 m                   4,610   5,326   6,670   5,913   6,S80         -   7,290        -
Consumption, m /connoc/month             21      26       21      22       21       -       21       -
X unaccounted for voter                  15      17       15      20       15       -       16       -
Production - 000 m                    5,310   6,384   6,670   7,884   7,600         -   8,580        -
Averag, wator tariff, Rp/mr              99     102      111     129      120       -      182       -
Connection fees - annual income           -     277        -     266        -     462        -       -
- 0/w carried fwd        -     189        -     329        -       -        -       -
- Rp/now connection    26       80       32      88       el       -      46        -
Water revenues  447                     644     828      762     768      878     965   1,400
Connection fees charged to PAL          106      67      le     128      161     260     16O      342
Total Operating Revonues             562     810     796      885     929   1.l88  ,1.126   1.740
Water Purchasoo
P*rsonnel                               223       -      811       -      371     221      465     252
Chemical                                  -       -        -       -        -       4      48       16
Power                                     -       -        -       -        -      66      146      70
Matorials                                 -       -        -       -        -      16      85       14
Transportation                            -       -        -       -        -       -      20        -
Direct costs                            374     176      515     257      e61       -      752       -
Water retribution                         0       0        0       0        0      92        0      96
General expenses                         34     137       44     146       48      98      59      185
Total Operating Expenses             408     311      559     403    e68       198     81l      588
Incomo beforo deprcciation              144     299      232     482     268      640     814   1,159
Depreciatlon - booked                   143     117      238     155      266     ???     815      492
Operating income                          1     182       -1     326        0     165      -1    6e7
Interest/other Income                     0      22        0       0        0      97      -1      782
Not Income                                1     203       -1     326        0     262       -1     782
Income tax                                0      48        0      90        0      58       0      239
Not Income (loss) booked                  1     156       -1     236        0     208       -1     648
Notional adjustments:
Amortization of works In progress       74     408        0     471        0       -       0        -
Interest on real capital employed    643       293      717     849     721        -     915        -
Income before tax after adjustments -716    -497    -718    -493    -721           -    -916        -
Average rate base                     4,136   3,106   7,904   3,670   8,620         -   9,969        -
X working ratio                          74      51       70      46       71       -       72       -
X rate of return                          0       6        0       9        0       -       72       0
X growth total revenues                  64      67       44      45       17       -       21       -
X growth operating epenses               48      es       87      80       19       -      22        -
Operating revenues/M3                   122     115      140     150      146       -     164        -
Operattng expensos/mr  consumod          90      58       99      6s      104              III       -
X tariff increaoso                        6      29       12      26        9       -       10       -
Tariff In 1989 prlco                   118     117      119     186      120       -     124        -
X roal tariff Increase                   -1      18        4      16        2       -        8       -



- 108 -
Balance Shoet. in Ro Million
1987            1908             1989             1990
Ap.Act.    Apr.          Act.   Ap. At            Apr.    ActE..
Assets
FT-Masesets In operition
Project at coat                    6,776   2,482   7,686   2,674   7,536  10,009   7,538  11,089
Other, at cost                       873     773      484   1,201     472       28   2,633        5
Revaluation surplus                  879     497    s88       497   1,467        -   2,070        -
Total                           7.620   3.j75    8.856   4.372   9.476  10.032  12,239  11.099
Accumulated deprociation             293     237    561       892     855      949   1,280 (1,441)
Net fixed assets                   7,235   8,616   8,304   3,980   8,620   9,082  11,009   9,868
Work In progroms
Project                              760   4,189        0   4,838        0       -       0        -
Other                                240       0.  1,400        0   2,600        -   1,000        -
Total                           1.000   4.189   1.400   4.838   2.600   9.OS3  1-000   9.653
Cash and Banks                         863       59     646     109      783     208     960      186
Accounts recolvablo                     88      272     127     408      149    a89      100      457
Inventories                             49       17      54      50      63       24      80      8a
Other current assets                     0      141       0     81o        0     478       0      707
Total Current Assets              481     489      726     874     997   1.047   1.220   1.369
Eculty and Liabilities
Gran* - Project                      7,636   6,671   7,686   7,512   7,536   6,547   7,536   6,606
- Other                           -       0        -       0       -      712       -   1,268
Total                       7,S37   8.671   7.386   7.612   7.536   7.259   7.586   7.859
Revoluation surplus                    S79    4979      885     497   1,467        -   2,070        -
Op. surplus excl. subsidy              222     640      221     986      221       -     220        -
Subtotal                        8.137   7.808   8.642   8.975   9.224         -   9.826       -
Capital                                817    -190      828    -280      318   1,960.    821   1,960
Total Equity                    8.464   7.618   8.960   8.695   9.642   9.219  10.147   9.049
Long term debt (noet)                  240      38   1,440       18   2,640       18   2,896      160
Accounts payable                        22       81      so      31       85      15      42       15
Current maturiteto                       0       15       0      15       0        -     146        -
Total Current Liabilittio          22      46       so      46      36      8s      187     165
Short term debt                          -       15       -      1s        -       -       -        -
PLN payableo                             0        0       0       0        0       -       0        -
Income tax outstanding                   0       0        0      90       0       44       0     158
Customer guarantee deposit               -       58       -      70        -      88       -      110
Conn. fees not recorded so incomo        0     429        0     758        0     781       0     748
Other liabilities                        0       0        0       0       o       1s       0      27
Total Liahillitie                 262     576   1.470      997   2.676      878   8.082   1.087
Total Eculty A Liabilities      8.72    8.194  10,480   9.691  12.217  10.1S0  18.229  11.021
No. days accounts receivable            58      18       s      167       59       -      G6        -
X debt/(net assets e WIP)                S        0      iS       0       24       -      26        -
Working capital, oxcl. cash            106      899     151     784      179       -     218        -
Current ratio                           22       11      24      19       28       -       7        -
X debt/(debt e equity)                   8        0      14       0       22       -      22        -
Assets enter operation               4,999      821     800     620        0       -   2,100        -



-109 -
PDAM KOTAMADYA MADIUN
Balance Shoets In Rp Million
1987             1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr       Act      Apr.    Act.-
Water Connection'                     9,900   6,654  11,160   7,646  11,680   9,208  12,170  10,727
Consumption - 000 m3                  2,830   1,784   2,960   2,076   3,090   2,375   3,210   2,640
Consumption/connec/month                 22       23      22       23       22      21       22      20
% unaccounted for water                  20       23       17      27       17      28       17      80
Production 000 m                      3,290   2,316   3,660   2,864   3,730   3,420   3,069   8,761
Average water tariff/rn                  98      141      98      138      106     165      119     206
Total connection foos (Rp m)             72      115      93      120       93     206       88      8O
Rp '000 por now connoction               27      102      74      121      176     125      180     126
Water revenues                          261      262     289      288      326     892      382     503
Connection fees charged to PUL           72       66      93      100       93     106       88     121
Total Oporating Revenues             323      307     382      388     419      497     470      629
Personnel                               120       77      128     114      137     120      161     186
Chemical                                 15        1      17        2       20       5       22       2
Power                                    66       58      63       73       71     129       79     127
Materials                                20       26      22       28       26      21       28       -
Transportation                            9        2       10       2       11       -       12       -
Direct costs                            218      159     241      217      264       -      292      40
Water retribution                         0       22       0       22        0      23        0      81
General expenses                          9       3s       9       37       10      26       11      91
Total Operating Expensos             227      217     250      276     274      824     8OB      891
Income before deprociation               9e       90     132      107      146     174      167     288
Depreciotion - booked                    97       69     131       89      146     168      le     189
Operating income                          0       31       0       18        0      13        0      94
Other income/loss                         0        8       0        7        0       -        0       -
Operational interest                      0        0       0        0        0       -        0       -
Not Income                                0       37        0      26        0       -        0       -
Income tax                                0        1       0        0       0        -        0       -
Not Income (lose) booked                  0       86        0      26        0      18        0      94
Notional adjustments:
Amortization of works In progress       10      219       0      140       0        -        0       -
Interest on real capital employed    8o1         94     81l      218     832        -     371        -
Income before tax after adjustments -311    -276    -8ll    -827    -882            -    -371        -
Average rate base                     2,695      803   8,496   1,438   8,747        90   4,160      120
X working ratio 70                       71       66      72       6s       98      e6       89
X rate of return                          0        4       0        1        0       -        0       -
X growth total revenues                  61       11       18      26       10       -       12       -
X growth operating elpenses              t1       16       10      27        9       -       11       -
Operating revonues/M                    128      172     129      185     186        -      146       -
X tariff increase                         6        3        2      -8        8       -       18       -
Tariff In 1999 pricos                   109      162     104      144      106       -      111       -
X real tariff increase                   -2       -6      -4      -11        1       -        6       -



- 110 -
Balance Shoots in RD million
1987            1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.   Apr.    ct-    Apr.    Act,
Assets
FT-ia-essots in operation
Project at coat                     3044     364   8,144   1,644   8,144   2,619   3,144   2,901
Other, at cost                       298     683      816     823     541       19     980       37
Revaluation surplus                  230      136     4683    136      712       -     981        -
Total                           3.672   1.1883   3923   2.602   4.897   2.638   3.106   2.938
Accumulated depreciation             231     318      378     407     660   (636)      765   (876)
Net fixed asosts                   3,341     866   3,546   2,09S   3,847   2,102   4,360   2,283
Work In progress
Project                              100   2,247        0   1,436       0        -       0        -
Other                                  0      62      200      51     300        -     100        -
Total                             100   2_3Q09     200   1 486     300   2.102      100   2.263
Cash and Banks                         176       23     256      86     834       47     450      131
Accounts receivable                     62      102      61     109       67     180      76      199
(Bad debts)                              -      (4)       a     (8)       -        -       -       -
Inventories                             21       61      24      36      27       32      3-       33
Other current asoets                     0       26       0      34        0      43       0       59
Total Curront Assets              248     197      340     206     428      282    656      421
Total Assots                    3 689   3.871   4.086   3.786   4.676   2 384   6,006   2.686
EauTty and Liabilities
Grant* - Project                     3,144   2,612  13,144   2,978   3,144   1,676   3,144   1,702
- Other                           0      31       0       31       0      122       0     216
Total                       3.144   2.643    3144   3.009   3.144   1.697   3.144   1.918
Revaluation surplus                    230      136     463     185      712       -     981        -
Operating surplus                       67       57      58      82       67       -      58        -
Subtotal                        3.431   2.836   8e66   3.227   3.913          -   4.183       -
Capital                                169       64     169      65      170     200     169      200
Total Equity                    8.601   2.899   S8884   8.292   4.084   1.897   4.361   2.118
Long term debt (not)                     0       49     18O      a8     400       16     628       6
Accounts payable                        10       84      12      86       18      42      1S       48
Current maturities                       0       38       0      40        0       -      34        -
Total Current Liabilities          10     117       12     126      13       64      49      64
Short term debt                          0       42       0      48        0       -       0        -
PLN payableo                            79        0      79       0       79      10      79       21
Income tax outstanding                   0        1       0       0       0        -       0       -
Customer guarantee deposit               0       19       0      28        0      29       0       86
Conn. foes not recordod as income        0      244       0     264        0     297       0      401
Other liabilities                        0        0       0       0        0      98       0       66
Total Liabilities                  89     472      251     494     492      428     664     518
Total Eauity A Liabilitles      8.689   8.871   4.089   8.788   4.676   2.,84   60        2685
No. days accounts recolveble            59      121      58     104       s8       -      58        -
X debt/(not assets + WIP)                0        2       4       1       10       -      12        -
Working capital, *xcl. cash             68       90      73      84       81       -      90        -
Current ratio                           26        2      28       2       a3       -      11        -
% debt/(debt + equity)                   0        2       4       1        9       -      11        _
Assets enter operation               1,492      126     100   1,819     200        -     400        -



- 111 -
BPAM KABUPATEN SITUBONDO
Income Statements in Rp Million
1987            1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act. AAct.    Apr.                 c      Apr.    Act.
Number of Connectiops                 6,240   3,817   7,680   4,644   9,080  6,9889  11,600   8,248
Consumption - 900 m                   1,610     788   1,960   1,088   2,840   1,882   2,980   1,400
Consumption, 'n /connsc/month            22      19       21      19      21       19      21       19
X unaccounted for water                  16      88       1S      23      15       28      1s       20
Production 000 m                      1,890   1,237   2,300   1,347   2,760   1,738   8,610   1,750
Average water tariff Rp/m3              188     180      160     231     161      219     173      211
Connection fees - annual income           -      83        -     169       -      le       -       27
- carried forward        -      67        -     104        -       0       -        0
- Rp '000 per new connection       19      109      31      120      27       90      16      90
Water revenues                          214     138     298      239     378      292     617      296
Connection fees put to PkL               36      49      41       66      41       95      41      143
Curront year                            -      28       -       66       -       11       -      27
Brought forward                         -      23        -       0       -       84       -      115
Total Opnrating Revenues            249      187     884      294     419      887     668     438
Personnel                                87      39      114      59     148        -     199       90
Chemical                                 11       1       14       1      18        -      26       20
Power                                    S8      32       75      F4      98        -     181       78
Materials                                18      23     242        8      8u        -      41       28
Transportation                            3       -        4       -       6        -       6        6
Direct costs                            178      96      230     120     296      167     402      216
Water retribution                         0       8        0       8       0        0       0        0
General expenses                         16      15       18      26      28       88      32       S0
Total Operating Expenses             192     118     248      162     al8      196     484     286
Income before depreciation               67      74      85      142     100      198     124     172
Depreciation - booked                    67      81       85     1a3     100      126     124      138
Operating Income                          0      -7       0        9       0       67       0      84
Operating subsidy (PEMDA/PPSAB)           0      12       0       14       0        0       0      49
Net Income                                0       6        0      22       0       67       -       84
Income tax                                0       0       0        5       0       18       0      23
Net income (loss) booked                  0       6       0       18       0       50       0       6o
Notional adjustments:
Amortization of works In progress       24     228       0      144       0        0       0       0
Interest on real capital employed    224        76     262      181     280      343     855     402
Income before tax after adjustments -248    -297    -252    -802    -280    -278    -866    -319
Average rate base                     1,786     418   2,891      887   3,089   2,261   8,742   8,848
X working ratio                          77      8o       74      52      76       S0      78      e8
rate of return                           0      -2        0       1       0        3       0        1
X growth total revenues                  69      12       84      57      26       32      83       13
X growth operating elpenses              46      18      29       86      28       28      36       88
Operating revenues/M8                   1S5     244     171      285     179      291     187     818
Operating expensos/i  consumed          119     147     127      147     1s8      146     146      190
X tariff Increase                         8      -7       13      28       8       -6       7       -4
Tariff In 1989 prices                   162     207      161     244     181      219     162      199
X real tariff increase                    1     -14       8       18       0      -10       0      -9



- 112 -
Balance Shoots in Rp Million
1987            1988             1983             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.
Asset.
Fix;adssots In operation
Project at cost                    2,194      208   2,444   1,186   2,444   2,776   2,444   3,246
Other, at cost                        294     623     364      821     671   1,038   1,497   1,226
Revaluation surplux                   118       0     290        0     489        0     716        0
Total                           2,808      831  38088   2.007   8e605   8.811   4.-87   4.472
Accumulated depreciation              151     364     247      632     366      657     515      796
Not fixed assets                    2,466     467   2,841   1,476   3,239   8,165   4,142   3,676
Work in progress
Project                               260   2,341        0   1,480       0        0       0        0
Other                                 160       0     600        0     800        0     100        0
Total                             400   2.341      500   1.480      800        0     100       0
Cash and Banks                          239      43      308      44     392      -29     428      -42
Accounts receivable                      40      97       63     149      87      198      89      221
Inventories                              17      33      23       36      29       84      40       36
Othor current assets                      0       0        0       1       0        0       0        1
Total Current Assets              298      178     384      228     488     201      567     214
EquitY and Liabilities
,rnnts - ProT-ct                     2,444   2,649   2,444   2,688   2,444   2,776   2,444   3,246
- Other                           0       29       0       42       0      42        0      92
Total                       2,819   2.577   2.819   2.708   2.819   2.817   2.819   8.337
Revalustion surplus                     118       0      290       0     489        0     716        0
Op. surplus excl. subsidy                 7    -211        7    -202       7    -185        7    -100
Subtotal                        2.944   2387?  3.116   25606  38316   29883  3.642  38287
Capital                                  46     612      47      482      47      529      48      620
Total Equity                    2.991  2?879   8.1683   2j988   8,882   3.211   B.688   85867
Long term debt (net)                    150       0     560        0     960        0   1,138        0
Accounts payable                         10       6       12       8      15        a      21        8
Current maturities                        0       0        0       0       0        0      67        0
Total Current Liabilities           10       6      12        6      15        a      78       6
Short term debt                           0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
PLN payable*                              0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
Incom  tax outstanding                    0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Customer guarantee deposit                0       6       0       10       0       1o       0       10
Conn. fees not recorded as Income         0      90       0      194       0      110       0       -6
Other liabilities                         0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Total Liabilities                 18O      102    562       214     966      148   1.211      84
Total Eaulty & Liabilities      8.161   2.98}   8.725   8.188   4.827   8,864   4.799   8.691
No. days accounts receivable             69     180       S8     18S      S8      185      S8      185
X debt/(net assets + WIP)                 5       0       16       0      26        0      27        0
Working copital, oxcl. cash              47     124       64     179      81      225     106      261
Current ratio                            80      31       32      41      88       38       7       88
X de it/(debt + equity)                   6       0       15       0      22        0      24        0
Ass4ts enter operation                1,339      97     800   1,178      800   1,804      000      661



- 113 -
BPAM KABUPATEN TUBAN
Income Statements in Rp Million
1987             1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr        Act     Apr.    Act.
Number of Connectlogs                  4,390   2,898   6,190   3,283   7,060   4,434   8,850   4,780
Consumpt0on - 8 m                    1,050     308   1,460       667   1,710      812   2,160    897
Consumption, m /connec/month              20      11       20       14      20       16       20      16
9 unaccounted for                         15ter  is  44    15       30      15       80       15      80
Production - 000 m                     1,240     548   1,710       794   2,020   1,178   2,640   1,238
Average water tariff, Rp/m               111     131      1S0      146     146      163      154     209
Connection foos - annual income            -     111        -      107       -      146        -      47
- carried forward         -     111        -     106        -       72       -        0
- Rp '000 per new connection        38       64       89     120       69     127      3s       135
Water revenues                           117      40      190       81     249      182      834     181
Connection fees charged to PAL            6o      23       70       98      69       74       69      93
Current year                             -       0        -       0        -        -        -       -
Brought forward                          -      23        -       P7       -        -        -      46
Total Operating Revenues              177      63      260     179      308      206     893      274
Personnel                                 eo       19      91       30     111       60      148      46
Chemical                                   6       2        9        4      11        3       15       4
Power                                     17       11      26       13      31       84       42      41
Materials                                 16      27       24       31      29       22       89      22
Transportation                             3        2       4        6       6       24        7      28
Direct costs                             102      82      1s3       85     188      133      251     140
Water retribution                          0       0        0        a       0        0        0       0
General expenses                           8       17      12       21      14       40       18      48
Total Operating Expenses              110      79      164     109      202      178     269      188
Income before depreciation                67     -16       96       70     107       8S      124      86
Depreciation - booked                     67      89       96      116     107      120      124     121
Operating income                           0    -106        0      -46       0      -87        0     -36
Operating subsidy (PEMDA/PPSAB)            0      42        0       s3       0        a        0       7
Net income                                 0     -63        0       -9       0      -80        0     -29
Income tax                                 0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0
Net income (loss) booked                   0     -63        0       -9       0      -80        0     -29
Notional adjustments:
Amortization of works In progress        19     117        0      218       0        0        0       0
Interest on real capital employed    279        106      297     110      808      344      864     387
Income before tax after adjustments -298    -284    -297    -835    -808    -424    -a84    -s89
Average rate base                      2,379     628   3,868       961   3,652   2,169   4,187   3,468
% working ratio                           62     124       83       el      85       84       6s      as
% rate of return                           0     -17        0       -6       0       -4        0      -1
% growth total revenues                   78     861       47      182       10      15       27      8s
X growth operating egpenses               e3     140       50       88      23       so       83        9
Operating revenues/M  consumed             0     138        0       6s       0        8        0       7
% tariff increase                          6       80      17       11      12       12        a      29
Tariff in 1989 prices                    128     161      139      1S8     146      163      144     197
X real tariff increase                    -1      20        9        2       6        6       -1      21



- 114 -
Balance Shoot. In Rp Million
1987            1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act       Apr.    Act.
Assets
FTrxa- ss.ts in operation
Project at cost                     a,096   1,027   3,291   1,027   3,291   8,678   8,291   3,818
Other, at cost                          0     189      12      191     127      243     760     286
Revaluation surplus                   16o       0     480        0     822        0     881        0
Total                           8.266   1.18    3.682   1.218   4.040   8.821   4.928   4.078
Accumulated dopreciation              118     126     217      240     8ss      860     488      482
Not fixed assets                    3,142   1,040   8,468      978   8,702   3,461   4,487   3,659
Work In progrose
Project                               196  11,202       0   2,222        0        0       0        0
Other                                 104       0     300        0     500        0     200        0
Total                             300   1.202      300   2,222      600        2     200       o
Cash and Banks                           74      28      168      22     260       67     298       18
Accounts recovable                      28     102       42     170      49      196     e6       261
Inventories                              18       8       20       9      24        8      83        8
Other current *aseto                      0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
Total Current Assets              le       833    216      201     323      281     891     286
Total Assets                    8.667   2.74   8.981   8!401   4.526   3.722   6.028   3.882
Equity and Liabilities
Grants - Project                      3,291   2,229   8,291   8,249  8,2091   8,578   3,291   3,813
- Oper. Subsidy                   0       88       0     124        0     180        0     137
- Other                           0       a8       0       88       0      83        0      83
Total                       8.291   2.349   8.291   3.406   3.291   3.741   3.291   3.982
Revaluation surplus                     18o       0      880       0     822        0     881        0
Op. surplus excl. subsidy                 0    -171        0    -218       0    -802        0    -837
Subtotal                        3.461   2.179   8.871   3.190   3.918   8.439   4.173   3.846
Capital                                   0      98       0       98       0       98       0       98
Total Equity                    8.461   2.276   8.871   8.287   8.918   8.638   4.178  8.7242
Long term debt (not)                    100       0      800       0     6oo        0     800        0
Accounts payable                          7       1       10       2       12       2      l        2
Current maturities                        0       0        0       0       0        0      40        0
Total Current Liabilities            7       1      10        2      12        2      58       2
Short term debt                           0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
PLN payableo                              0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
Income tax outstanding                    0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Customer guarantee deposit                0       8       0       11       0       11       0       11
Conn. fees not recorded as Income         0      92       0      101       0      173       0      127
Other liabilities                         0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Total Liabilities                 107      100     810      114     612      le8    866      140
Total Equity * Liabilities      3.j57   2.874   8.981   8.401   4.526   8.722   5.028   8.882
No. days accounts receivable             s8     589      58      848      58      848      58      384
X debt/(not assets + WIP)                 8       0        8       0      14        0      18        0
Working capital, excl. cash              85     109       52     177      62      203      80      288
Curront ratio                            18      95       22     118      27      168       7      176
X debt/(debt + equity)                    8       0        8       0      18        0      18        0
Assets onter operation                1,628     824    2,00       52    1,00   2,808      8oo      267



- 115 -
SPAM KABUPATEN TULUNGAGUNG
Income Statements In Rp million
1987            1988             1989             1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    AcEt
Number of Connectiogs                10,330   3,484  12,410   5,868  13,660   8,461  14,840  10,881
Consumption - 900 m                   2,360     249   2,910      60e   3,190   1,344   3,480   1,870
Consumption, m /connec/month             19       8      20        9      20       18      20       18
X unaccounted for                        15tor  iS  40    1s      4e      15       44      15       26
Production - 000 m                    2,770     417   8,420   1,128   3,760   2,889   4,090   2,227
Average water tariff, Rp/m3             146      22     148       98     182      162     179      265
Connection fees - annual income           -      52        -     152       -      279       -      277
- carried forward        -      58        -     115       -      228       -      210
- Rp '000 per new connection       17       40      80       64     100     108       93     114
Wator revenues                          841       6     431       6o     617      204     622      423
Connection fees charged to P&L           90       8     125       76     126      148     120       87
Current year                            -       6       -       37       -       62       -      87
Brought forward                         -       3        -      87       -       94       -        0
Total Operating Reveiues             431      14     66e      134     842      360     742     490
Personnel                               163       9      178      88     209       37     243      106
Chemical                                 12       0       1s       8      18        1      21       29
Power                                    92       2     122       24     148       48     187      s8
Materials                                82       8      40        8      47       16      66       12
Transportation                            6       0        7       0       8        9       9        4
Direct costs                            296      14     862       es     426      11     496      236
Water retribution                         0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
Goneral expensoe                         le       9       19      27      21       54      25       59
Totol OPerating Expenses             811      23     881       95     448      165    620      294
Income beforo depreciation              120      -0     1S5       89     196      185     222      198
Dopreciation - booked                   120      88      176     169     196      106     221      120
Operating Income                          0     -42        0    -120       1       80       1       76
Operating subsidy (PEMDA/PPSAB)           0      82        0      84       0       28       0        0
Net Income                                0     -10        0     -86        1     103       1       78
Income tax                                0       0       0        0       0       8o       0       21
Net lncomo (loss) booked                  0     -10        0     -86        1      78       1       66
Notional adjustments:
Amortization of works In pro rose       44     827       0      280       0       S8       0        0
Interest on roal capital employed    482       128     528      280     689      488     606     561
Income before tax after adjustmiants -626    -460    -628    -s9e    -588    -433    -eo8    -475
Avorage rato base                     4,069     688   5,849   2,048   6,880   8,939   7,009   6,826
X working ratio                          72     185      69       71      6s       47      70       60
X rate o  rturn                           0      -8        0      -6       0        2       0        1
X growth total rovenues                 108     122       29     882       15     161      16       40
X growth operating elpenses              98      40       28     824       17      78      17       78
Operating revenues/M                    188      56      191     221     201      260     218      294
Operating Expenses/U  consumed          182      go      181     157     140      128     149      176
X tariff Increse                          7      82        2     887       9       56      10       87
Tariff In 1989 prices                   166      26      158     108     162      152     187      289
X real tariff lncreose                    0      21       -6     801       2       47       8       57
1989/90 banod on data to end February.



- 116 -
Balance Sheets in Rp Million
1987             1988             1989              1990
Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.
Assets
Fixed assets in operation
Project at cost                     6,363   1,293   6,800   3,083   6,800   5,227   6,800   6,808
Other, at cost                           0      77       87       46     192      138      933     313
Revaluation surplus                    220       0      597        0   1,024        0   1,474        0
Total                            S 573   1.370   8.464   3,109   7.018   6,383   8.207   8.121
Accumulated depreciation               178      33      385      192     588      297      848     417
Net fixed assets                    5,396   1,337   6,099   2,918   8,430   6,088   7,369   5,704
Work in progress
Project                                447   3,382        0   2,382        0      647        0       0
Other                                  153       0      400       54     800        0      100       0
Total                              600   3,382    4,00   2.418        800      647     100        _
Cash and Banks                            98       13     249       33     427    -111       828    -210
Accounts receivable                       69      121      89      282      103     736      119   1,030
Inventories                               26      14       34       10      39        2       46       8
Other current ascats                       0     442        0       33        -      39        -      36
Total Current Assets               193      190      372     358      689      684     793      882
Total Assets                    6e188   4,889   6.871  65,91   7.699   6,278   8,262   8,58e
Equity and Liabilities
Grants - Project                       5,800   4,656   6,800   6,428   5,800   6,773   6,800   6,808
- Oper. Subsidy                    7       60        7      94        7     117        7      117
- Other                            0       es        0      88        0      es        0       es
Total                        6.808   4,783   6.806   5,688  65806   5.959   6,808   b.993
Revaluation surplus                      220        0     697        0   1,024        0   1,474        0
Op. surplus excl. subsidy                  1     -83        1    -183         2    -103        3     -27
Subtotal                         8.o27   4.720   8.404   6,406   8.832   6.866   7.283   6,985
Capital                                   -2      20        1       66      02       25       03      19
Total Equity                     8.025   4,740   6.406   5,460   8,830   6.880   7,280   5,978
Long term debt (net)                     150       0      460        0     750        0      906       0
Accounts payable                          13        ;      18        0       19       1       22       0
Current maturities                         0        0       0        0        0       0       46       0
Total Current Liabilities           13        1       18       0       19        1      87        0
Short term debt                            0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
PLN payables                               0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Income tax outstanding                     0       0        0        0       0       30        0      21
Customer guarantee deposit                 0        8       0       13        0      13        0        8
Conn. fees not recorded as income          0      141       0      218        0     352        0     652
Other liabilities                          0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
Total Liabilities                  183      149      486     231    7889       396     972      590
Total Equity & Liabilities       8,L88   4.889   6,871   6,891   7.699   8,276   8.262   8,s58
No. days accounts receivable              68   3,234      58,      787       69     787       59     787
% debt/(net assets + WIP)                  3        0       7        0       11       0       12        0
Working capital, excl. cash               82      178     107      326      123     774      143   1,071
Current ratio                             15     136       23      n/a      30      948       12   2,482
% debt/(debt + equity)                     2        0       7        0       10       0       11       0
Assets enter operation                 2,652   1,298      500   1,739       100   2,264      700     768



- 117 -
AjNNEX F
Transfer of Assets
Procedure for transfer of assets frcm Central Governrent to
Local Cover-ment :s as follows
; ?SAS  l'ad  :-ier  t:e   -73Z:^T71  s -. e  i D each  wE,
includin; rranagement of r9-e assets, as-built drawings,
copy contracts, operati^n and Taintenance manuals etc.
rI. Oata on  assets  will  be  taken  into  consideration  in
preparation of the annual financ:al report etc.
lII.8PXP will audit the annual f nancial report, verify the
value of assets therein and send the result to Central
BPKP.
IV. Based on a verified BPKP audit report, DGCK on behalf of
the Minister of Public Works will request the Minister of
Finance to arrange transfer of assets from central
Government to Local Government Level I, 'I.
V.  Ministry of Finance will transfer the legal ownership of
assets to Local Government.
The status of transfer of asset in each Ln 2275 WEs is as
follows
Towns                                  Status
I     II      Ill       IV   V
1.  Kab.  Sidoarjo        Ok    Ok      Ok 1989   -    -
2.  Kab.  Mojokerto       Ok    Ok      Ok 1988   -    -
3.  Kab.  Situbondo       Ok    Ok      Ok 89/90  -    -
4.  Kab.  Malang          Ok    Ok      Ok 1989   -    -
5.  Kab_  S-mp-an         Ok    Ok      ok 1988   -    -
6.  Kab.  Tuban -         Ok    Ok      Ok 87/88  -    -
7.  Kab.  Tulwsgagung    Ok    Ok       Ok 88/89  -    -
8.  Kodya Mafua           Ok    Ok      Ok 1988   -    -
The next stop Ls for DOCK to request MOF for formal transfer.
Now the loan  has closed, the mLssLon requested aclerated
action to *nablo full compliance wLth the covenant 4.04(c)
reWqairin  transfer.  DOCK has promLsed to request transfer
from MfN by March 31, 1991.



