Document of
The World Bank                                  FiLE COY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3517-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 11, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1982)
Currency unit  =  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         =  Rp 700
Rp 1,000        =  US$1.43
Rp 1 million   =  US$1,429.00
FISCAL YEAR
Central Government:  April 1 - March 31
Water Enterprises:  January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (f)
I kilometer (km)      =  0.62 miles (mi)
I liter (1)           = :0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (cu m) =  35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
lps                   =  liters per second
lpcd                  =  liters per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND INDONESIAN TERMINOLOGY
BAPPENAS    - National Development Planning Board
BNA         - Basic Needs Approach (GOI water supply program for
cities with populations of 20,000 and above)
CK          - Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban
Development, Cipta Karya
DSE         - Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
GOI         - Government of Indonesia, the Central Government
IKK         - Ibu Kota Kecamaten, the principal city or town of a kecamaten
Kabupaten   - A second-level administrative unit; a subdivision of a province
Kecamaten   - A subdivision of a kabupaten
Kotamadya   - A second-level administrative unit; a self-governing city
PCK         - Provincial Cipta Karya
Province    - The first-level administrative unit of local government
PDAM        - Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum - A semi-autonomous water enterprise
owned by a kabupaten or kotamadya
Repelita    - National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary /1
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $30.6 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description:  The proposed project is part of the Government of Indonesia-s
(GOI) program to provide basic needs water supply systems to
urban communities in the Province of East Java and to help
meet Indonesia's Drinking Water Decade target of providing
piped water supply to 75% of the urban population by 1990.
Its principal objectives are to (a) provide low cost safe
water supply to about 720,000 persons by 1988, half,of which
are in the poverty group; (b) maintain tariffs at levels
which are affordable to all, including the poor; (c) develop
financially autonomous water enterprises (PDAMs) to operate
completed systems; and (d) train management, administrative
and operations staff of the water sector.
/1 The Board documents for this project are based on an exchange rate of
Rp 700 to the US dollar. However, after project appraisal and loan
negotiations the Government announced on March 30, 1983 the devaluation
of the Rupiah from 700 to 970 per US dollar. While it is difficult at
this early stage to completely assess the effect of this decision we
have concluded that it will not materially change the basic scope and
objectives of the project. The base cost of the project as expressed in
dollars equivalent, would decline somewhat and consequently the rate of
Bank participation in the project would increase slightly. The project
cost, as expressed in Rupiah will increase both because of the 38%
upward adjustment of the Rupiah equivalent of the foreign costs and an
increase in local inflation which can be expected to follow the
devaluation decision. Consequently, tariffs about 7% higher in 1983
prices than those indicated in these Board documents will be needed to
comply with the revenue covenants from 1985 on. This would not however
affect the affordability of the project to the beneficiaries since the
resulting higher water bills would still be well within the capacity of
even the poorest consumers to pay.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The project includes the provision of (a) piped water supply
systems including water sources, transmission, distribution,
storage and customer connections; (b) the development of
management and financial systems for eight beneficiary water
enterprises; (c) training for water supply staff; and (d)
consulting services for project management, training,
technical, institutional and financial studies and the
preparation of a future project.
The primary risk is that the new locally-based water enter-
prises may not effectively operate, maintain and expand the
facilities. These institutions now lack adequate staff and
managerial experience but the project includes institutional
support and training which should be adequate to establish
competent PDAMs and therefore minimize this risk.
Local   Foreign  Total
Project Costs:                                           --- ($ million) ----
Water supply systems                13.37   17.35   30.72
Technical assistance                1.44    2.18    3.62
Engineering and supervision         1.20    0.80    2.00
Base cost                     16.01   20.33   36.34
Physical contingencies              2.43    3.10    5.53
Price contingencies                 4.97    4.03    9.00
Total project cost /a         23.41   27.46   50.87
Front-end fee                        -       0.08    0.08
Total                         23.41   27.54   50.95
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                3.06   27.54   30.60
Government                         20.35      -      20.35
Total financing required    23.41   27.54   50.95
/a Including duties and taxes estimated at $0.5 million equivalent.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:             Bank FY  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
----- ($ million) 
Annual             0.6   3.1   7.0   7.7   7.6   4.6
Cumulative         0.6   3.7  10.7  18.4  26.0  30.6
Rate of Return:    Averages 4% for the eight enterprises.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4282-IND dated April 5, 1983.



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA FOR THE EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $30.6 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the East Java
Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a
country economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year.  The
latest of these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human
Development in the Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distribu-
ted to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected
social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread
across an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about
two million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at
about 2.3% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country
has a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy
resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a
developed system of agricultural commodity production and export. A high
proportion of these primary resources are located on the sparsely populated
islands of Sumatra and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live
on Java which has areas with some of the highest rural population densities
in the world. About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java
and the Outer Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is
over 4% p.a. The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places
Indonesia for the first time amongst middle income countries./l
/1 On the basis of the World Bank-s system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, In foreign exchange earnings from oil.  Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, through investment in infrastruc-
ture, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer
incentives. This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests in 1980
and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high growth
rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral growth has
been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and distorted
incentives.
5.        Since 1981 the macroeconomic resource position has changed dra-
matically.  Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led to
a turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years, with a
deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Following the reduc-
tion in the OPEC market price from $34 to $29 in early 1983, resource
prospects worsened further. Faced with mounting pressure on the currency,
on March 30, 1983, the GOI devalued the rupiah by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970
to the US dollar. This was an important step in the short run adjustment
process, but barring a major recovery in oil prices, other adjustments will
be necessary, in particuilar in the rephasing of import-intensive public
expenditures. These measures will lead to a reduction in the growth rate.
At a more fundamental level the change in external prospects have emphasized
the need for substantial structural change in the eighties. The development
of a strong and diversified nonoil production and export base is essential
to the restoration of reasonable growth.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
6.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic
health indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an



-3-
increase in life expectancy from 47 to 53./1 These improvements should not,
however, mask the continued existence of widespread poverty.  Almost 50% of
the population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The
core of the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless
laborers form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and
where, for most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real
agricultural wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests it
is likely that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural
incomes on parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have
declined in the face of the international recession. Following the devalua-
tion this situation will likely reverse. Export incomes should rise, backed
by the international recovery, but real incomes in Java could be adversely
affected.
7.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total
in 1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental
employment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained
by rising oil incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a
major source of labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying
the pattern of productive growth. The key issue is one of widespread
underemployment in the traditional sectors. To tackle this a sustained rise
in labor demand is crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and
the encouragement of labor-intensive processes in both the traditional and
the industrial sectors.
8.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment
in primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic develop-
ment and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education
will be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the
whole system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has
been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the sub-district level, but
continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major expan-
sion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of mor-
tality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18%
of the rural and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /2
compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.
/2 Government estimates for 1981.



-4-
Policy for Structural Change
9.        Indonesia-s past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a
program of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries,
LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and
mining. This would broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited
employment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the
construction phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports
is the encouragement of agriculture and the small- and mediumrscale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 28%
devaluation of March 30, 1983, substantially improved incentives for
production of tradeable goods. Furthermore, the GOI has initiated a general
review of the trade regime, with a view to removing the distortions caused
by the wide variations in rates of effective protection. It has also
embarked on a program designed to promote the expansion of nonoil exports,
including export financing arrangements, export insurance, improved ports
procedures, export processing zones and a system of export certificates
(duty rebates). However, the private sector suffers from significant
domestic constraints to its expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden,
especially in the area of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly
developed financial system. Further policy reforms to alleviate these
constraints are needed to create an environment conducive to private
investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem.  Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment
measures. In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by about 60%,
and this followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a decisive
step that substantially reduced the differential between domestic prices and
the average opportunity cost; however, price relativities between products
diverge widely from those prevailing on the international market. In
addition a major program of investment is planned, with public and private
participation, in coal exploration and development, exploitation of hydro
and geothermal resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power
generation in the coming decade.



12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and
the rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery
of seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of
further expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered
from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old,
but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority
program for promoting development in underpopulated regions, providing
opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving
economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic savings will have to be found. This will require a major increase
in resource mobilization through the public sector over the medium term,
through a combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and
increased nonoil taxes. In 1981 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic
economy-were only 6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out,
compared with well over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 and
1983/84 budgets represented a significant effort to improve the situation,
with major reductions in the oil subsidy and increases in nonoil taxes, but
this will have to be sustained in following years. In addition to public
resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important to encourage the
growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of financialized savings,
through an improved financial regime and the development of a domestic
capital market.
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in
the short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important compo-
nent of this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows. Total
disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost $20 billion at the
end of 1982 and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $12 billion. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. During
the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation
in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. In 1982 private



-6-
source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt. The fact
that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s,
and the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of
how far the country has progressed.  However, the debt servicing capacity
depends on commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and
this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to developments in interna-
tional markets.  The implication is that debt utilization should remain very
prudent, and that there will be a continued justification for official debt
of long maturities in the 1980s. With the sharp decline in oil export
receipts the debt service ratio will rise in the short term, but present
projections indicate that the overall debt position will remain manageable.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       As of March 31, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 76 Bank loans amounting to $5,295.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was 10.7%, and the share of debt service, 7.1%. By the end of 1981, these
ratios increased to 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex II contains a
summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of February 28,
1983, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Given the
critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employ-
ment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transpor-
tation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-scale indus-
try), power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of
these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given
to these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact



will require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
investment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work
is being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of
Bank involvement will be on policy and institutional development and tech-
nical assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration
between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level. The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work is focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will
build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor and resource intensive
industries. This analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which
would facilitate subsectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued
lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree
crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social
services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water
supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development
of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the disburse-
ment ratio /1 from a low of 13% in FY80, compared to a Bank-wide average of
21.31%, in Thailand of 21.2% and in Nigeria of 17.31% in that year, to 18%
in FY82. The poor FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid
increase in commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA
commitments to Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase
of 83%. However, it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out
of GOI-s budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance
of tender documents and' opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A
number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta
in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint
initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. In
addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board considera-
tion at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts,
improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in FY82, and
$301.2 million for the first six months of FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country s improved creditworthiness following the commod-
ity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group-s subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the eighth lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Agricultural
Training, the Second Nonformal Education, the Second Polytechnic, and a
fifth DFC operation.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Background
21.       Health.  As measured by standard indices, health conditions in
Indonesia lag behind those in other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Life expectancy in Indonesia is shorter and the infant mortal-
ity rate higher than in comparator countries. Endemic diseases, caused in
part by poor water supply and sanitation, contribute to this situation.
22.       Water Resources.  Indonesia is well endowed with rainfall and
ground and surface water resources, but problems of distance, reliability,
contamination, excessive demand and conflicting uses preclude simple and
rapid development on a wide scale. Because of population density, intensive
agriculture and above average industrialization and urbanization, the water
supply situation in Java /1 is more critical than in other parts of
/1 The subject project finances systems in the Province of East Java, and
data given here for Java is representative for East Java as well as the
other two provinces of Java.



- 9 -
Indonesia. Java has 62% of the nation's population hut only 6% of the
available water; its forecasted 1990 demand for water represents 98% of the
available supply.
23.       Service Levels.  About 40% of the urban population nationally has
access to piped water supply. But many systems suffer from contamination
and low pressure, and the urban population without access to such systems
depend on water from vendors or from shallow wells, streams or rivers at
considerable health risks. Only 20% of the urban population has satisfac-
tory sanitation facilities. Of the rural population, 18% has access to
potable water from either piped systems, wells with handpumps, central
rainwater collectors or protected springs, and 24% has satisfactory
sanitation facilities.
24.      IWhile the present situation is unsatisfactory, there has been
considerable improvement in water supply over the period 1970-81 during
which the percentage of population served rose from 2.5% to 23%. However,
the absolute number of people without access to safe water remained almost
the same at 118 million in 1970 as against 117 million in 1981. The
proportion of the population served by sanitary facilities in the country
has increased from about 15% in 1970 to 23% in 1981, but the population not
served also increased (from 103 million to 117 million), with the urban
areas particularly falling behind.
Sector Organization
25.    - Three ministries of the GOI are principally responsible for the
water supply and sewerage sector.  The Ministry of Public Works is respon-
sible for development in urban areas, the Ministry of Health for rural
areas, and the Ministry of Home Affairs, indirectly, for overseeing
operations.
26.       Within the Ministry of Public Works, the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) of the Directorate General of Cipta Karya (CK) is
responsible for overall planning, design and implementation of water supply,
sewerage and sanitation projects funded by GOI. While projects are under
construction, DSE and CK provide technical and managerial assistance to the
operating agencies (para. 34) and on occasion temporarily own and operate
systems until they become autonomous. CK also provides technical advice to
the Ministry of Health on rural sector matters. Water and sanitation
systems are owned and operated by local governments, either by a department
(a Dinas), or by a semiautonomous public enterprise (a PDAM). Occasionally
these entities also engage in the construction of projects. The Ministry of
Home Affairs, by virtue of its responsibility for local government and local
government enterprises, oversees such operations.



- 10 -
Sector Development and Investment
27.       During the period covered by GOI's First Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita I) total capital investment in the sector was close to
Rp 16 billion ($24.2 million equivalent). About 80% of this amount was
contributed by GOI, and included the funds provided by external assistance
agencies; the balance was obtained from various local sources including
provincial budgets.  The initial emphasis was on water supply; production
capacity increased by 166% during the period. Investment during Repelita II
amounted to Rp 166 billion ($251.5 million equivalent), of which Rp 140 bil-
lion ($212.1 million equivalent) was invested in urban projects and
Rp 26 billion ($39.4 million equivalent) in rural projects. Productive
capacity increased by 140% during this period.
28.       In 1979, as Repelita II was drawing to a close, it was recognized
that the pace of development needed to be accelerated, and that the poor
living in the smaller cities and towns must be given urgent priority.
Therefore, the GOI embarked upon a "basic needs" approach to projects which
seeks rapidly to provide essential service at low-cost to cities and towns.
In 1981, through the impetus of the United Nations International Drinking
Water and Sanitation Decade, overall service level targets were set by GOI
for 1990 as follows: urban and rural water supply to serve 75% and 60% of
the total population, respectively; and urban and rural sanitation to serve
60% and 40% of the total population, respectively. Two major programs for
meeting the targets for urban water supply in the 1980s are the Basic Needs
Approach (BNA) program for cities and larger towns (with populations of
20,000 and above), and the Ibu Kota Kecamaten (IKK) program for kecamaten
headquarter towns with populations in the 3,000-20,000 range, which is also
part of the Government's basic needs approach. This project finances sub-
projects under both programs.
29.       Basic needs projects are distinguished from earlier programs in
that special attention is given to speedy implementation, low cost construc-
tion and tariffs which are affordable to the poor. Accordingly, facilities
are of low-cost design; half of the population served receives house or yard
connections, the other half standpipe service; projects are executed in the
provinces and kabuputens by local staff to the extent capabilities permit;
goods are purchased in bulk and distributed from regional and central
stores; projects are financed as grants and the assets are given free to the
water supply entities; and tariffs are expected to cover operation and
maintenance costs and depreciation to the extent that it is affordable
(although these may be subsidized in the early years of operations when
there are few connections).
Urban Water Supply - Policies, Issues and Constraints
30.       Investment Funds and Cost Recovery.  The investment required to
meet the 1990 urban water supply target (para. 28) is estimated to be about
$1.7 billion, or $240 million per year for the remaining years of the



- 11 -
decade. This represents a three-fold increase over the 1981 sector
investment budget and an allocation to urban water supply of more than one
percent of the total development budget. Given the GOI's constrained
resource position, the GOI and Bank have been discussing options to recover
from water users an increased portion of the capital costs which could be
earmarked to offset the capital cost of subsequent projects. Analysis by
Bank staff of subprojects in East Java Province indicate that such cost
recovery could finance a portion - perhaps up to 30% - of the capital cost
with tariffs at affordable levels.  During negotiations agreement was
reached that under the proposed project, consultants will study the merits,
effects and institutional arrangements for capital recovery, and the
findings of the study would help shape future policy in this area (Section
3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
31.       Project Implementation.  By law the provision of water supply is
the responsibility of local government, but in reality the central govern-
ment plays the leading role in design, construction and funding of projects.
At the first National Workshop for Water Supply and Sanitation (Bali, 1981)
the participating ministries agreed to promote regional autonomy in develop-
ing projects. This is desirable given the size and geographical dispersion
of Indonesia: efficient implementation of a large urban water program from
the center is impractable. It will also help ensure that projects are
responsive to local needs. Consistent with the Workshop's recommendations,
more design, planning and construction supervision work is being delegated
to the regions. The arrangements under the proposed project are consistent
with these trends and are intended to serve as a pilot for future projects
in East Java and other provinces.
32.       Operation and Maintenance.  Water systems, although usually built
by the DSE, are operated by the local government either as a unit of its
public works department (a Dinas) or as a local government enterprise (a
PDAM). As a Dinas, staff and accounts are not separated from other
government functions and water revenues flow into the local government's
general fund. As a PDAM, the enterprise is directed by a board; it employs
management and staff who work exclusively for the enterprise, and accounts
are independent of other agencies. The concept of PDAMs is sound and the
GOI intends that eventually all urban water systems will be operated by
them. PDAM's are operating in five of the eight areas covered by the
project, and during negotiations agreement was reached that PDAMs would be
established in the remaining three areas by December 31, 1984 (Section 3.09
of the draft Loan Agreement).
33.       The functioning of PDAMs is not without problems.  Newly employed
staff require extensive training and lack experience; accounting, management
and operational systems have also to be developed. Overstaffing is common
and some local governments have used the water systems as a source of general
kabupaten income, thus denying the enterprises the necessary financial
certainty. The notion of assertively providing a public service through a



- 12 -
financially viable and well managed organization, has to be instilled.
Support and guidance by a higher authority will thus be necessary for a
significant period of time.
34.       As part of its institution building function, on centrally funded
projects DSE is responsible for the provision of technical guidance, the
establishment of PDAM management and accounting systems, and the training of
staff in their use. During negotiations agreement was reached to ensure
that such arrangements will be made for the PDAMs benefitting from the
project (Sections 3.11 and 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Because the
DSE has few legal powers and insufficient staff to monitor and control a
greatly expanded PDAM system, a PDAM monitoring unit within the structure of
Provincial Government was deemed appropriate. The East Java government has
designated its Bureau for Promotion of Economic Infrastructure as the
responsible office. During project implementation the Bureau's function
with regards to PDAMs would be developed in detail and its staff trained.
The functions would include: (i) provision of technical and financial
guidance to the PDAMs; (ii) reviewing and assisting PDAMs in the preparation
of tariff and other charges; (iii) studying investment proposals and
reviewing their priority and justification; and (iv) providing channels to
exchange information on the improvement of systems and procedures.
35.       Human Resources for the Urban Water Program.  The DSE is imple-
menting a manpower development program which was started in 1979 under Dutch
assistance. The program's objective is to train management, administrative
and operating personnel for assignment to DSE and water utilities. The
program-has experienced difficulties, some due to design, some to implemen-
tation, and at present is not operating at a satisfactory level. CK, with
the participation of consultants and a Bank training specialist, is
re-evaluating and reforming it, and attempting to move more of the training
activities to the provinces. Under the proposed project, funds are alloca-
ted to support, in parallel with Dutch funds, a revitalization of both
regional and national ttaining activities. This will be coordinated with
broader improvements in the Ministry of Public Works training system to be
instituted under the proposed Bank-assisted Public Works Manpower
Development Project. The topics of training, approximate numbers of
trainees, and the preparation and delivery systems to be supported by the
proposed water supply project were received and agreed at negotiations
(Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Bank Lending in the Sector
36.       The Bank has assisted GOI with two urban water supply loans cover-
ing a total of 12 cities. The first, (Loan 1049-IND, approved in 1974),
sought to apply the principal recommendations of a 1971 sector report,
expressly that: (a) financing for projects to be by loan rather than grant;
(b) semiautonomous water enterprises (PDAMs) be established and developed;
*(c) the DSE be reorganized and its management capabilities improved; (d) the
functions of the key ministries active in the sector be defined; and
(e) staff be trained to implement projects and operate systems. This



- 13 -
project is now virtually complete but experienced a 2-1/2 year delay caused
in part by design problems, slow and cumbersome procurement procedures, and
late deliveries by several suppliers. More specifically, the installation
of about 30% of the service connections was subject to significant delays
and, consequently, the full benefits of the project will not be fully
realized until 1984, about three years later than planned. PDAMs for the
beneficiary cities have been developed and are generally performing
satisfactorily. The DSE, which underwent reorganization and staff
strengthening, improved its capabilities but is still overburdened because
its workload expanded so greatly.
37.       Important departures from covenants under the first project's loan
agreement concern: (i) the GOI's failure to submit adequate audited
financial statements for the beneficiary PDAMs (Section 4.02(b) of Loan
Agreement for Loan 1049-IND) and (ii) the failure of government agencies to
pay their water bills (Section 4.05(b) of Loan Agreement for Loan 1049-IND).
The Project Completion Report currently under preparation will review these
and other issues. The second Bank project (Loan 1709-IND, approved in 1979)
followed along the same lines as the first project. It continued the
strengthening of the DSE, the establishment and development of seven PDAMs,
and the training of staff. Delays in preparation and procurement of about
one year were experienced, but now all supply contracts have been placed and
while past delays will not be made up, progress is satisfactory. The possi-
bility of delays in auditing financial statements and non-payment of bills
by government agencies are also a concern under the proposed project, but
during negotiations GOI presented satisfactory action plans to help rectify
these problems (Section 3.10(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project is a part of the GOI's Basic Needs water supply
and sanitation program (para. 28). The subprojects were prepared by local
and foreign consultants financed under Loan 1709-IND. Several preparation
missions took place over 1980-1982 and an appraisal mission visited
Indonesian in June 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1983,
and the Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Radinal Moochtar, Director
General, CKe A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4282-IND) is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives and Principal Features
39.       The objectives of the project are to:
(a) provide safe and reliable water to more than 700,000 persons;
(b) establish PDAMs, develop or improve their organizational
capabilities and strengthen their technical and financial
performance;



- 14 -
(c) strengthen DSE and CK managerial capabilities;
(d) establish a permanent training unit for East Java Province,
strengthen DSE's capabiity to manage nationwide training, and
assist in the more rapid decentralization of training to the
provinces; and
(e) study efficient and appropriate policies for the water
supply sector.
40.       The water works component consists of equipment and facilities for
50 piped water supply systems. Each system will be complete with source
development, pumps and motors where necessary, transmission and distribution
pipe, service reservoirs and treatment where appropriate, service connec-
tions and public standpipes, and office and workshop space. Water sources
have been determined on the basis of least cost and have capacity to produce
water of sufficient quantity and quality. Gravity pressure systems will be
used where feasible to avoid the need for pumping equipment and recurrent
energy costs. Water from all systems would be chlorinated and meet WHO
Drinking Water Standards; most systems would meet these standards without
treatment. Sanitation is not included in the project but is being addressed
under other government programs, including those of INPRES and the Kampung
Improvement Program (KIP)./1
41.       Thirteen of the subprojects are in cities which fall under the
GOI-s BNA program, and 37 in towns under the IKK program (para. 28).  The
beneficiary cities and towns were selected by CK in consultation with the
Ministry of Home Affairs and provincial officials in accordance with appro-
priate criteria. Facilities are designed in accordance with standards and
procedures which have been developed by DSE with the assistance of consul-
tants. Improvements in design criteria have evolved over the past year and
this process would be continued under the project; to this end the project
includes a review of criteria and the monitoring of existing systems.
Accepted recommendations of the review would be implemented as soon as
feasible but not later than June 30, 1985 (Section 3.10 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
42.       The institutional development component of the project is designed
to (a) build the eight beneficiary PDAMs into effective, financially viable
water enterprises and train their staff (paras. 34 and 35); (b) study,
recommend and install systems for assisting and monitoring PDAMs over the
/1 INPRES is presidential funding provided directly to provincial and
kabupaten governments for projects of their choice. KIP is a program to
improve the quality of crowded urban areas; typically it covers walks,
roads, drains, water supply and sanitation. The KIP program has been
supported extensively by the Bank through four loans for urban develop-
ment.



- 15 -
long-term (para. 34); (c) study PDAM tariffs and the merits and arrangements
for cost recovery (para. 30); (d) review and improve upon planning and
design criteria (para. 41); and (e) assist DSE and CK to more effectively
carry out their responsibilities under the GOIs expanding urban development
and water supply programs. Consultants would assist DSE and CK in carrying
out this work.
Implementation Arrangements
43.       The Directorate General of Cipta Karya (CK), through DSE, will
have a overall responsibility for the project and for international procure-
ment. A Project Management Unit (PMU), to be a part of the East Java office
of the Ministry of Public Works and assisted by the East Java Office of DSE,
will manage and coordinate project activities. Day-to-day implementation
and construction supervision will be handled by a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) working under the supervision of the PMU. The PMU and PIU will
draw staff from Provincial Cipta Karya, the beneficiary PDAMs and kabupaten
public works offices. The PMU and PIU have been established and their staff
designated. The Units will be assisted by consultants for design, construc-
tion supervision and management.  The Ministry of Home Affairs, through its
Directorate of Urban Development and Regional Autonomy, will assist on
policy matters and in dealings with the provincial and local governments.
44.       The beneficiary PDAMs are autonomous water enterprises under their
respective kabupaten or kotamadya governments. To ensure full participation
by the local governments and water enterprises the Governor of East Java has
issued instructions to the beneficiary local governments and PDAMs which
contain: (a) a description of the physical, institutional building and
training aspects of the project; (b) tariff, revenue and financial perfor-
mance criteria; (c) the obligation to participate in the institutional and
training activities included in the project; and (d) the obligation to
establish and maintain accounting systems (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Further, in order to define their respective obligations with
regard to the project, the Provincial and Central Government have entered
into a satisfactory agreement which covers arrangements for implementing the
physical, institutional and training aspects of the project (Section 3.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project, including physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at $50.9 million, including a foreign exchange
cost of $27.5 million, or about 54% of the total cost. Taxes and duties are
estimated at $0.5 million equivalent. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 15%. The base costs are expressed in January 1983 prices.
Price contingencies for local costs were estimated at 13% for 1983, 10% for
1984 and 7% per annum thereafter, and for foreign costs at 8% for 1983,
7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% per annum thereafter. The Board documents
for this project are based on an exchange rate of Rp 700 to the US dollar.



- 16 -
However, after project appraisal and loan negotiations the GOI announced on
March 30, 1983, the devaluation of the Rupiah from 700 to 970 per US dollar.
While it is difficult at this early stage to completely assess the effect of
this decision we have concluded that it will not materially change the basic
scope and objectives of the project. The base cost of the project as
expressed in dollars equivalent, would decline somewhat and consequently the
rate of Bank participation in the project would increase slightly. The
project cost, as expressed in Rupiah will increase both because of the 38%
upward adjustment of the Rupiah equivalent of the foreign costs and an
increase in local inflation which can be expected to follow the devaluation
decision.
46.       The cost of consultants for project supervision, technical
assistance and training is estimated at $5.6 million equivalent. This is
comprised of $2.0 million for engineering and supervision (about 7% of the
cost of physical works) and $3.6 million for technical assistance and the
preparation of future projects. The estimates are based on 1,072 and 312
man-months of local and foreign personnel, using an average total cost
(including travel, subsistence and overhead) per man-month of $2,500 for
local and $10,000 for foreign personnel.
47.       A Bank loan to GOI of $30.6 million equivalent would finance the
foreign exchange cost of the project, the capitalized front-end fee of about
$0.08 million and $3.06 million in local costs. The Bank loan will finance
60% of the total cost, excluding reserve procurement for vehicles and motor-
cycles. GOI would provide the balance of Rp 14.2 billion ($20.4 million)
from its own resources as DIP funds (i.e., development budget funds) to CK
by way of annual budgetary appropriations. Consistent with present national
policy for BNA and IKK programs, these funds would be grants to the local
government and beneficiary PDAMs (para. 29).
Financial Considerations
48.       The GOI-s present policy is that operating revenues should cover
operation, maintenance, and to the extent it is affordable, depreciation.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that starting in 1985 operational
revenues of the beneficiary PDAMs will at least cover operation, maintenance
and depreciation expenses on revalued assets (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).  Prior to the devaluation, it was calculated that the average
tariff required in 1988 (in 1983 prices) to comply with the covenant would
be about Rp 94 per cu m ($0.13/cu m). Preliminary indications are that
tariff levels required in 1988 to meet the tariff covenant would now be
about Rp 101 per cu m ($0.10/cu m at the new exchange rate), or about 7%
higher than shown in this report. The tariff structure would be in
accordance with CK Guidelines which are to be reviewed and modified if
appropriate under the project. Under the revenue covenant the PDAMs will be
financially viable and generate more cash than needed for operations.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the depreciation allowance
would be used exclusively for improvement and expansion of water systems
(Section 4.04(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
49.       The GOI has agreed to reconsider financial policies for the sector
in preparation for Repelita IV (para. 30). During negotiations agreement
was reached that a study would be carried out under terms of reference
agreed with the Bank, based on the eight beneficiary PDAMs, of alternatives
to grant financing and tariffs that would produce satisfactory levels of
financial performance as well as capital cost recovery while remaining
affordable to consumers (Section 3.10(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
accepted recommendations of this study as they relate sectorwide to tariffs
and cost recovery policy would be implemented by December 31, 1984. The
specific recommendations for the beneficiary PDAMs would be implemented by
Jufte 30, 1985.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Civil works to be implemented under the project estimated at
$16 million, excluding contingencies, would be widely dispersed, of small
scale, labor-intensive and therefore not suitable for ICB. IKK civil works
contracts would average less than $100,000 each, BNA contracts, less than
$500,000, although about two contracts may be slightly more than $1 million.
Therefore, civil works would be bid in accordance with GOI procurement
regulations which are satisfactory to the Bank. They would be packaged to
enable small contractors to participate individually, and to attract large
contractors or joint ventures of smaller firms. Bidding would be done on
the basis of standard contract documents agreed with the Bank. Equipment
and materials with an estimated value of $14.8 million (excluding contingen-
cies) including pipes, fittings, well screens, casings, pumps, meters and
chlorination and well drilling equipment would be procured under ICB.
Vehicles including motorcycles will be subject to reserve procurement.
Equipment and materials required in small lots or on an urgent basis, valued
individually at less than $100,000 and totalling less than $2.0 million,
would be procured through GOI procedures acceptable to the Bank. Local
manufacturers would be granted a preference of 15% of the CIF price of
imported goods, or the customs duty, which ever is lower. No prior review
of civil works procurement documentation by the Bank is proposed because:
(a) all civil works contracts are individually small and will be let on the
basis of local procedures; and (b) Bank emphasis has been to review and
agree on the local procedures to be followed and the standard contract
documents to be used. Bank supervision missions will, however, conduct
random post review. All bidding packages for equipment and materials over
$200,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank-s prior review of
procurement documentation.
51.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against the following
categories of expenditures: (a) 45% of the costs of civil works contracts;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for materials and equipment; (c) 95% of
local expenditures (ex-factory) for materials and equipment procured
internationally; (d) 65% of local expenditures for materials and equipment
for items imported and locally procured; and (e) 100% of total
expenditures for consultants' and specialists' services (including training
specialists) and for overseas training. Disbursements for civil works



- 18 -
contracts will be against periodic statements of expenditures. Funds for
the remaining project components will be provided by the GOI. The loan
would be disbursed over the period 1983-89. This project is expected to
have a shorter disbursement period than the average historical disbursement
profile for Indonesia because final designs are in progress, procurement
actions have begun, and the systems are relatively simple.
Accounts and Audit
52.       The implementation units will maintain separate accounts for all
project expenditures. During negotiations agreement was reached that the
GOI will have the project accounts, including statements of expenditures, for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
furnish the Bank with copies of the audited accounts not later than seven
months after the end of each GOI fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Risk
53.       The population density of Java is higher, the poverty is greater,
and water scarcer than elsewhere in Indonesia. In this setting the proposed
project will meet the basic water supply needs of the population in priority
cities and towns of East Java Province.  The project's systems are designed
for low cost and rapid implementation, and will reach the poor at affordable
prices. The project will benefit about 720,000 people by 1988, and about
50% of the beneficiaries are estimated to be below the relative poverty
level for Indonesia. Under the proposed revenue covenant water charges will
be well below 2% of the monthly incomes for low-income families and below the
3-7% range considered affordable for the others. While as a result of the
devaluation tariffs in 1983 prices will be 7% higher, this will not however
affect the affordability of the project to the beneficiaries since the
resulting higher water bills would still be well within the capacity of even
the poorest consumers to pay. Raising the health and living standards of
the population is the main purpose of the project, but emphasis is also
placed in the achievement of sound institutional and financial policies for
the sector, the strengthening of DSE and other sector institutions and the
establishment of financially viable and effectively managed PDAMs. The
overall project and the individual subprojects represent the least-cost
method for providing basic water service.
54.       The justification for the project is that it provides at least
cost essential and safe water supply service to a heretofore unserved
population (half of whom are poor) and that it provides the means for
strengthening sector institutions and policies. The economic rates of
return (ERR) were calculated using water charges as a surrogate of economic
benefits: charges paid at present by consumers for purchases from meter
vendors were used for up to 15 lpcd, and average water charges under the
proposed tariff level and structure were used for higher consumption. ERR-s
so calculated average 4% and range from 3-6%. A 20% increase in capital



- 19 -
costs would reduce the average ERR to 3%. These rates of return, however,
are not a fair measure of the full benefits of the project as they do not
adequately capture externalities (such as health benefits) which accrue to
the community at large or the benefits which result from the new system to
the present users in the form of improved service.
55.       Project risks are that the provincial CK and kabupaten staff have
never carried out water supply projects of this scope, and their capabili-
ties have not yet been proven under this expanded program. This risk is
mitigated by the establishment of a PIMU which will draw upon more experienced
staff and consulting advisors, and the support to be given the PMU by CK and
DSE. Also, as some design features are innovative and have not been
extensively tested in Indonesia, there could be functional problems or
reluctance by consumers to accept this technology. The systems have been
used in the Philippines, and are now being installed in West Java where they
will be tested. During project execution the design features would be
evaluated and if necessary and feasible, the designs will be modified. The
low cost of using these designs and the reasonable certainty that they will
work justifies this risk. Most of the prospective consumers presently
obtain their water from rivers and shallow wells. As it is sometimes
difficult to wean people away from these traditional sources, there is some
risk that the project will be underutilized. This risk is reduced because
during project preparation, the community leaders were consulted by the
project preparation teams to determine if they wanted a new system and were
willing to pay the water charges; also the systems are nominally designed to
serve only 60% of the population. Finally there is the substantial risk
that the systems will not be effectively and efficiently operated and
maintained because the PDAMs are new and inexperienced in operations; staff
must be hired and trained, and sound public utility practices have to be
introduced and accepted. The training and institutional development of the
PDAMs, and the mechanisms to be established to provide assistance and
control of the PDAMs, mitigate this risk.
Environmental Aspects
56.       Because it provides safe, potable water, the project will have a
positive environmental impact and improve the quality of life of persons in
the beneficiary cities and towns. During construction there will be some
disruption of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and earth excavation will
increase sediment loads of storm water runoff, but these will be temporary
situations without major detrimental effects. After project completion the
volume of wastewater will increase, but this will be limited by virtue of
the low capacity of the water supply system, and the expected volumes will
be readily handled by existing storm water canals and drains. Moreover,
some wastewater will probably be used for watering gardens and controlling
dust. The quality of the wastewater would at worst be that of wash and
laundry water and free of fecal matter.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 11, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                       Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)Ia
TOTAL            1919.3                                           MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      316.5                   1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        BO.0        140.0           430.0             261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           124.7       121.9            225.4             448.7                  701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      94680.0    116143.0          146557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6        17.1             20.2              17.3                   32,4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                  216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                    376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                              2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            49.3         60.5             74.6             158.1                  255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         355.9        378.8            452.4             355.9                 1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              40.7         44.0             40.1              36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                               56.2        53.4             56,9              59.7                   56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                         3.1         2.5              3.1               3.5                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.1         2.0              2.3               2.0                    2.3
URBAN                                    3.7         3.6              4.0               3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           46.8        40.7             35.3              29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           24.5        17.2             13.3              11.0                    9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    2.8         2.7              2.2               2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..       181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         0.2             27.1              19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               93.0        102.0            113.0             108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        86.3         93.9            101.7/c            97.3                  106.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                38.2        42.4             44.8/C            56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH.ANIMAL AND PULSE             5.6          6.2              6.67/C           20.0                   13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           22.9        16.8             11.3              10.9                    6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          41.2        47.3             53.1              57.8                   59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                149.9       120.9             92.7              89.1                   63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          3.0             12.0/d            32.9                   32.0
URBAN                                               10.0             35.07h            70.7                   51.9
RURAL                                    ..          1.0              6.0o7            22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
CF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..        12.0             15.0/e            18.1                   37.7
URBAN                                     ..        50.0             60.0oe            72.7                   65.7
RURAL                                     ..         4.0              5.67;             4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              46778.7      26498.5          13674.6            3297.8                 8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          4517.0       7672.8           8871.6            4929.3                 4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 1360.3      1644.6           1609.9/d          1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                                 251.8           ..            699.07/d          301.3                  651.6
RURAL                                     ..           ..          3166.8/d          5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..          ..             22.4/e              ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    4.4         4.8
URBAN                                   4.9          5.3
RURAL                                   4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..         1.5
URBAN                                     ..         1.6
RURAL                                    ..          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                             Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEIRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      71.0         78.0             94.0              97.4                   96.2
MALE                      86.0         83.0            100.0             101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                    58.0         73.0             89.0              87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0         16.0             22.0              53.0                   37.6
MALE                      10.0         21.0             27.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0         11.0             18.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)        20.4         22.1             19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 38.8        28.9              37.2              37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                               14.0         13.1             17.0              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0         56.6             62.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.1          2.1              3.5/c             1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               7.2        22.0              41.9              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.1          0.8              8.6               3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       11.0           ,,             17.7/d            16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        2.8           *-              0.87C             3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          34791.4      41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        27.8         30.9             29.3              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   75.0         66.0             58.0              70.0                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       8.0         10.0             12.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7         35.4             35.9              40.0                    38.5
MALE                                      54.2         49.5             51.0              51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                                    20.0         21.6             20.9              23.8                   26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2          1.3              1.2               1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..             23.51d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..           ..             49.47;
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..              6.61d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..             14.47..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..            136.0             133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                     ..           ..            112.0             111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..            119.0                ..                  178.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..             98.0                ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..           ..             28.0              43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                     ..           ..             51.0              51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
- 23-                                                                 Page 3of 5pages
RbbINItTbbtb O 01155AM. INDICATlORS
NI,-a     Mehnob    b   dbsas d      rawn- lo-     sobesg    ,ea   In  jodge  the cost   -bootat             d telItic-  ilb ebot- ls  be soled obb   ha  b    o   be J,ba-
set  ntsito ooasseobo  bo Otto ofbbs loo   00 bbasscdbcao Ib: abo-  and os- -ob   ...d by dllfco-no   ooylaIsocot                   lb      - at  7ho dat-ae
baTas       bso    0                                                   -rtsotos.1ao-ltts   rdobteo   a--tcoree    ereosly t-p  iletcoot   eeace-osobslc
bI blo  solosor otobboylsoccb  lot 'tbgtlicosat   to>btsssr    g-o  char  'Hidbdl,, looses berh Aflsot  asFtdddls tIb-    b  ob-osb --osb  ob
coo toco booal 551-obbao  In cb  reatt-o-  dbta   dar-      t   nogboeyplbaabtc eIsslb-abbo  abas b-   coot t-1,                            at   ,o stoa   -sy altos
-flc b  o   t       -os  -e  booI g-oo  Ica  dot   o-  ibso  sd,,dabor.  bOtcos-ssrg    t  slrbs  fosbot_dobr  doosdl at-la-sa) hIbo0                                              ddb
0005  lb,aooaod  s.o c            l.n e.bPod                                                                 aso0lopolsd--s,oroI. oh  pfla                                       - ba(tal
ON? so   cqyLTa (bO)-CI  r   lytsstaas    t0tyssara   roNes.-ool                                             sThl oars  005, bII Illsood        R basa  tatooabs  ta       t, -ooot  beaIlb
-obatd by rosoaresoetots    ol  ls   ba   Ol0l,thasol   101,                                              so  tabol        'tts  o           Ireoasl    -balot  hr a lhylon ir-  (boor by 
lIt,od 11804 doy.                                                                                     aeba   nbso     ae.aaoe    t.   llbaiob-a1saot
d    ...so ...-d..l.    btdsse  fcoco   soleao                   teebna
data-                                                                     isolsllaIoob oat~~ bohloo  bed - Tota  b-bot  at  OSISOts  OotObotaat
lo    oslaa - ndod by tlbs oohs 
Tab-tsolboo,   I-as    ehnoda      b   Iliyl  lInt, 10111, sad IlOb                                  OLLobIboI
dissatopo-Ssli-os    orsoOsIl             j  ff,e                    -   61 - Sr   snoo     elyyls ohl occ ,cl ..otlt,     AO  a a...  0-  aoodotol   oh -   tlc  laao iIoarbrIca
--ooocro-l; Ilo,  loll, -bt  IdO tso-bs  ooaoo   o
rosalooortnolohlono                                         onsbgasobersolossos   00t ran - ssol,  -son, ot  osal -sara0a   or
l'blabo00ya   10Oblo-.oOttb~0t                             "I ocooco   00   In "o lo 1110taco   pe--i  arsa  In                  I otbot.  sod 'oIf  0:oy3          o500lco
l-orI yosobetoob>-       ss  ato sod toso tosolbo   s.ad lorollsat.lllOO0bIIOtOOr-                                       Ol--lO.   WOtAlloOt aor5odo   --o-nroaytt    -Oot              od
5m   .bo  Ibt5lrbla  aro. byostnnooesyofsoasIssl  Ooo-                   rt00o10   000
boalon   asrabo.-csohbrtooo,cooosdoabtoonorUoaasooloscoasa IcOtobo ta.ocoaIpso                  tarliosol-oats,  orta.  osyo-od
ant    no-ol-oooo'                sy          "Joloolr-ltra10    raloso,llcoyooo                                    onts- asl, IloO  foOl-tbos -00,sl  al5
atsooson    t 00  aVooontmb ,so    ooor  ae   dacIij tI 55   ttooho-1yaaooo r  s-oIly  i, Inoldoo oloald-e  Ott  I-l
obsanboototolai    o  oc00ooscy-roo  00   yst  cba  Iarl. saaostyOOlolsistdts21Isstlanoo   5losyooost1h
rrnto sohs,oo   boo 1--       riaryo,  os-obIebo   lrtycl r05soaooonol                                                r  bolos or ohon   ttt nOlo 0m         stot_5
PIns olot       0 -000 -aol.tst.I  I
mb   o    11   nd 1111 doss.                                                             yot-ososrsi-oso,s d s,notsn-Ooo   I-td-bbi-                                     IatI
Ososl.l)~ypi~y  Ooo-o<osr_lteoo)-lbcono-l  eo      oioosoI--orlsar   eod  -tot,-ey  I..o.s dooat-o  01  -sotr,1  of  -ashess  Inht
less --oIsboe I los-K   to`o to     -d0  WC ord1)-
?oaolsssai oosth no's  01100000  oroso- atrool ornaslo so-os o  "Iho  soya-         000l--o0055950
10000   o   119tb 10   00nd  -0 A     t-10                                                                 las-55        bnoadyPI!lo  0 Io                  5-
_rdrarhs ,lynoo-0               arol  0o-loo  rotltnossldyooolae-tt    lO -                                                            500 tsldaacotVootsseVn
toy Oar 1o - 1100    515  too                                               inoy  no-'s.-  'l,aolIdl
yaynlsloa   Is0   1010   oat  ~0o oso.                                               toosoos-no   ~srrs             or pbsaboosso   I yotlorso;IVso- tatot
lasobardoo   nh-s  orooaslhr  o   oyoasoonn   t.ltsr-nIlosalenelos                                     lrcoys   arI0tos   ohooats  Tot  -t r.dI
Os  aral  osntroosyesn   s  lo  aptsoto   taso   alo-e- atorlc  ta-_t   d  55f~0                                                ste OInoas 0 5a-o..st.t too  ot, o-booo J, sloa
F   laotaool    tryar0505    slt   rIt,   11   c   00                                                      ooo-oyssooloe                   aso
Oso'o   soslo   tIota.,   cotc    tooot  ol-osoloooattttceoor           lOa-oonoa  lesoos           -sdyyolsoo.- 00I          sosooc ti-ood-kae
o   Obsh tirrotrsraond.ros-ooatoaOnnIonlo-lsrnonyro.. o....                                 Ci          ,-.      --            C -i
l'aoIp~lo-olny    h-yb_syatot 0  as-ostostol__    yctoan-aos                                   itollao       00'sr                   _ktr_L-ott   of dT ly,  o In -        tto,
oosebotntsIdboasa-otaetOblOyooooOaynooahroh-otobro    teo-da-t                     tosnyo-rrrdbaoac  0- hoadosto.taooya1roVieo
-110 -.05  t---bTlolTlali0                                                "    Is  d.~                     oarbobl       11~ olysOsan  oo              -lo 11te -    sat-
5rotnbensnloIl.,oooosnooosoa boodoooosootOorsarstoaloedso                               bO,baootddosaaooo  yrr   sr-oItdbIdt,sainao
oaloa    ncsn  ol   IAs   -    -ro    ea0lso   110 , 1110. oo   Illl dta                  Toal-ho'  los pIt oaose--0  a  o,                s V.- oro   sso-not -~?   saolndloo
,iltlto        Ll.l-lobolatstob-yrsotl-Osraelsseel   at   oaore                                                                             V-t -    a   1s   nOos,sotos    n.
.laOlIo   sdInIa. ..... IIlooo  rdotO                              Ito. bolc-A&o.occ   Io  ato                             lao   lootrog,00000   to1o   n
s a o a  - ,as l s o d n o o s a t o   y y s s o o s l o a s a r  o o s o t l                     l  s b  s o   ao  s oo a  0   c  I ' i b  r l        t  b . I '  s k lO_s      a
nlystotroooy-dosa  nnro.osnh,d  h, 0So-a0 P-hod   oalgoo-. aggndesksto If                                                  sy    rss   sbgooaoobo    aoaoyo
sidonts-rsoelsotoyos    tt.oolsIoaatbltr.sofoooaoaooOdlsorlolssaeoodsoon   asoooaoolooaaIsosions 
too,botrno  t&.t   112 s)                         'IlOb,E1i1.  rt 510 s-s
brr-jsasool    oconos   IpasylIn                       arsscttblotOlr                                  ' sn-10  IeIto  soot  )rrt-oooo........   .I   sh,Aoo     oo   yot    yo
so   sor-ototsyo.    soooo      lotsst0doa~i                      o-aosbsssy    croTOaoaooLsbsoat-o.loot-ss
losett   acaloonnancbOlaa   b   ba  rn  aOo  looaorosoo   o   os--as   o   Osl   yylso    lal...rscotsy
so sl yteeo  aso  sorss  Is  cO  s-ld   ro--    t h -  400oh!,-I                          oncorb1edto _a51-Rs                    InptIborOn               h d   bbyo  onh-
bool  tas Stror    OlnI-n. 101  oc  115  010so sot  too   baty Ioko
Os nabla  rabaot osflin  ooaoosloo   ~Ol U0    c, - stots  soypy ot O.,t by
osalIr   dlol  al  0 st  o  oosys  at 141   ,   10   ntIO~sb.                       4110bl6blOlO
aotorsltolonob0olynoI9bl5o~0                                                            atd  boysdto-nosrla-sdN-s-loo-dooooo--sodeoato
lssh.sabr    oeOsoOatroV-.aolOtsoo   ba.botooso-                                                       Otns..Oosoc   os-  PyrI,l(11   t    .iaa-oio   o  oa 
ofan    ertnss.tlo,   arls,lbo   00   nd130Ots                               tsota    ossy'   rs   olIor   lo-o5Isslo    -shoohs-solso
Iesb  bo  I'llatr).oas   o0pysa  tot.            bbI......oa.oea    ls-nsrtb    l    as  oe   t    lt    soots   co-oo    o;ossr.s  s  o
bsrOftoollsisoeaI   oshor  so  coottIldi-        ,            -bbasosls.sssosl                   olttsaahI--1-                                                       t'     l~I.
`-sroo-O  - loooo    tsntsttab os   -0 ott rOs 's >o-toslssoea                                 bbIosstblooon            oas  lors-o  It-ItI opot-a-,         oo I,-  ahosso
-asssoo- hsO-        as--,,      os- sdryh            Ifssylst,    FsneaIy.Oslooorosno                                                    esaIost-I2bss1
h-50s005000-550000,-ossolbrrldIoas    baobt   oroo    otlbo                                         osssblotoOloo-s. olt   aa   .sOonolotas
lonooosaodotIaas   ycestOy70  esn  realoosnoyt                                                  lo:ot-sleaa.fo --hroni   os  I   soootb
ossbrtasoleart  tsnOcsoesoto   000                                 aoslos                       alastb    sts   a       eootlos-_ootlol5eost-ro
rotoatsaretat,               -ddIoeht ,se             boaertso Ia..         od....a~sottotsoOooloaooo-tilarosa   aolo
tletItdohaoss_d--oosl - 5000 or  oor-o -OOasb (_-                          sr



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                        Actual                         Estimate           Projected
Indicator                             1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979        1980    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a          70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.5    2.1    4.8    5.0    5.0
Agricultdre                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5    7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                        22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9        6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                        48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                   15,176          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3    1.0   -1.0    4.3
Exports of GNFS                    21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5    1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0    2.0    2.0
Gross national savings             17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
CDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    637    675    970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100              3.9          8.4          7.5         5.0         5.0
Agriculture                  54      47      32      26     22      17          2.7          4.1         4.1          2.5         3.5
Industry                     14      18      34     42      44      46         5.2          12.0         9.7         5.5          6.5
Services                     32      35     35      33      36      36         4.8           9.7         9.0         6.5          5.0
Consumption                  91      89      79      70     74      74         4.1           8.4         8.9          5.0         5.0
Gross investment              8      14      20     22      26      27         4.8          18.3        11.7          6.0         4.5
Exports of GNFS              13      13      23     31      23      18         3.6           9.2         8.7        -2.4          1.8
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19              3.2          22.1        14.0         2.5          3.5
Gross national savings        8       9      17,    25      25      22         6.1          23.1        14.4          4.8         5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                            11.7            10.1            10.5           23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0             8.4            9.3            13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                  -2.3           +1.6            +7.1           +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.            5.0           10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2             3.5             3.7            3.4
1960-70         1970-75              1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (2)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9              4.9              4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                     2.4              5.1                 4.5              2.5              2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                 2.9             16.0                15.0              7.0              6.0
ICOR                                                      2.2              2.2                 3.1              4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.30             0.2              0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2              2.8                 1.9              1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 31, 1983



- 25 -
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                               ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$ 520 (1981 estimate)                                                                                  Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                       Estimate                  Projected
Indicator                    1977      1978      1979      1980      1981       1982       1983      1984      1985       1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                              10,861    11,353   17,494   22,245   22,994         19,385   18,193   22,270   25,344    48,180
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)                7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661    18,824         15,631    13,893   16,979    19,004    31,759
(b)  Nonoil                           3,507     3,979     6,171     5,584     4,170       3,754     4,300     5,291     6,340    16,421
2.  Imports (including net NFS)         -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -22,096   -22,900  -21,472  -22,558  -23,740  -39,850
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,407          -5,468   -4,617   -4,451   -4,467   -7,001
(b)  Nonoil imports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,022   -14,803  -14,388  -15,584  -17,029  -30,155
(c)  NFS (net)                         -536      -586      -659      -975   -2,667      -2,629   -2,467   -2,523   -2,244   -2,69 4
3.  Resource balance                         175     -140      3,459     3,596       818    -3,516   -3,279         -288     1,604     8,330
4.  Factor sefvices                        -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,267          -3,772   -4,151   -5,004   -5,910  -10,245
(a)  Interest public debt              -441      -514      -772      -819      -840    -1,118    -1,319    -1,617   -1,953   -3,036
(b)  Other (net)                       -424      -501      -489      -386   -2,427      -2,654   -2,832   -3,387   -3 957   -7,209
5.  Capital grants                            66        46        52        76        67         100       100       100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109       2,250    2,467   -2,302       -7,388   -7,530       5,395   -4,405   -1,915
7.  Direct foreign investment                285       271       217       140       134         276       350       450       600     1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                     1,956     2,205     1,865     2,536     3,203       5,180     5,920    6,684      6,673      7,091
(b)  Amortization                      -825   -1,548   -1,329        -953   -1,001      -1,376   -1,770   -2,042   -2,440   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements                1,131       657       536    1,583      2,202       3,803     4,200     4,642     4,233      1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140        891   -1,261   -1,454   -1,172            874     2,050       156      -202       -10
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651          -708   -1,690   -2,736          988       2,234       729       -55      -426   -2,231
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208      2,916     4,606    7,342      6,354       4,120     3,390     3,445     3,871     8,775
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                         3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9       5.4         3.0       2.6       2.4       2.5        3.4
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /b                                  -         -    6,906   10,787    11,154         7,420     5,390      5,445    5,871    10,775
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                            3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1        9.5        5.4       4.1        3.8       3.8       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /c
Gross Disbursements                      1,956     2,205      1,865     2,536     2,356
Concessional Loans                          442       484       433       679       802
Bilateral                                381       448        399       63         29
IDA                                       49        29         30        42        68
Other                                     12          6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,514      1,721     1,432     1,858     1,552
Official export credits                  218       271         61        25       154
IBRD                                     191       168       199        331       106
Other multilateral                        16         12        46        52        86
Private - source                       1,089     1,270    1,126       1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                    7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                    4,583     4,717     4,799     5,482     5,783
Undisbursed debt                       4,475     5,839     7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262     2,062     2,101      1,772     1,974
Interest                               441       514       771       819       973
Payments as % exports /e                11.6      18.2       12.0       8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
-        (%)                                       6.3       7.6       6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                        5.4       4.6        5.0       5.0       7.8
Private  - source                        8.6      10.2       8.6       12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                 20.5      18.7      19.1      19.0       15.6
Official - source                       23.9      30.1       25.8      24.8      20.8
Private  - source                       10.4        8.6      11.1      10.0      10.7
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt Dutstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                    30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                   60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                    4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Includes foreign assets of deposits money banks in addition to official reserves.
/c  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/d  At end of period.                                                                                       East Asia and Pacific Programs
/e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                              March 31, 1983



- 26 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1983)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-five Credits fully disbursed  559.3   521.5              -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea          -        7.8         0.9
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -       16.5         5.4
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                -       16.0         0.4
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.0      -           7.4
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5      -           0.1
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0      -           3.1
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.0      -           7.1
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.0      -           4.5
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.0      -           3.0
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension               22.0     -           0.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.0      -           6.5
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0          -           0.5
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                    52.5     -           5.3
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0      -           9.1
1365     1977   Sixth Power                               116.0      -           9.5
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                      13.0      -           3.2
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0     -           7.5
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                           63.0     -          31.1
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                            35.0     -           4.6
1472     1977   Second Population                           24.5     -           7.4
1486     1978   Non-Formal Education                        15.0     -           4.9
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.0     -          24.3
1513     1978   Seventh Power                              94.0      -          30.5
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development                 -      40.0         9.1
1578      1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.0     -         108.3
1579      1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.0     -          14.8
827      1978   Rural Credit                                -      30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II           65.0     -          49.2
869     1979   Polytechnic                                  -      49.0        25.2
1645      1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.0     -          47.3
1653     1979   Third Urban Development                     54.0     -          23.8
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                   -      10.0         8.7
1691     1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.0     -          33.4
1692     1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.0     -          13.6
1696      1979   Fifth Highway                             123.2     -          76.1
1703      1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.0     -           9.4



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -       67.0        24.3
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0      -          89.5
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.0      -          78.2
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.0      -          25.0
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -       12.0        10.0
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0      -          64.7
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -       45.0        34.6
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -       45.0        30.7
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II           -       42.0        37.9
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.0      -          89.2
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV          42.0      -          35.5
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.0      -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -       30.0        25.9
1869    1980   Third Population                           35.0      -          33.6
1872    1980   Ninth Power                               253.0      -         204.8
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development            46.0      -          41.1
1904    1981   University Development                     45.0      -          44.1
1950    1981   Tenth Power                               250.0      -         182.1
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                          22.0      -          18.6
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.0      -          38.9
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.0      -         151.8
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0          -          33.7
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.0      -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                            170.0      -         170.0
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.0      -          15.0
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0      -         159.5
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                   100.0      -          99.8
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.0      -          79.8
2102    1982   Second Textbook                            25.0      -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.0      -          36.1
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0      -          69.9
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution           66.0      -          65.9
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI             68.1      -          67.1
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering               25.0      -          25.0
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                   5.5      -           5.5
2214    1983   Twelfth Power /1                          300.0      -         300.0
2232    1983   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders VII /1 154.6          -         154.6
2235    1983   Provincial Health /1                       27.0      -          27.0
2236    1983   Jakarka Sewerage & Sanitation /1           22.4      -          22.4
/1  Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-28 -                          Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              5,115.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                     -195.86   -7.39
Total now outstanding                         4,919.74  924.41
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             4,918.71  925.87
Total undisbursed                             3,179.10  216.80   3,395.90
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1983)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                            118.8      18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 79.3       5.7      85.0
Total held by IFC                                   39.5      12.3       51.8
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   21.8           0.3       22.1



- 30 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1983
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                                  6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects  (1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751, 1835,           10-13
2007, 2126, 2232, 984, and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (996, 1840/1014 and 2066)                        14
Rural Development (946)                                                       15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 15-16
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                 16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079, 2153, and 2214)            19-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industry (2199)                                                              22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                          22
Population and Health
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                    23
Health (2235)                                                                 23
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                             24
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                24
Highways (1696, 2049 and 2083)                                             25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                       26
Ports (1337)                                                                  26
Tourism (479)                                                                   27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      27-28
Water Supply and Sanitation (1709 and 2236)                                  28-29
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about two years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
delays in the completion of bidding documents and land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 89% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was expec-
ted to be completed by early 1982. The construction of North Sadang has
suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late award
of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984. Dis-
bursements at the end of February 1983 were about 80% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. All of the stage I area
(75,000 ha) has been completed. Only the drainage works and road improvement
in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be delayed due to
budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has mobilized
additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction supervision



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the Madiun
works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were 51% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well. Pumps were commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 95% completed. Land
clearing and levelling is progressing satisfactorily and is about 60% accom-
plished. Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems have
been completed. One of these schemes is now under execution with cofinancing
from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) assistance while detailed design of
another (about 29,000 ha) is being financed under Irrigation XVII (Loan
2119-IND). Detailed design of Sungai Dareh Sitiung Stage II (about 8,800
ha) has been completed and its construction is being financed under
Irrigation XVI (Loan 2118-IND). Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were about 87% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No.-1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvement of about
19,900 ha of Way Seputih; (c) improvement and expansion of about 63,100 ha
of Way Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of
two dams associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and
Gumbasa irrigation projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and
also studies of two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of
irrigation to Bekri, West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung
Province. Due to initial delays in survey and mapping of the Way Seputih/
Way Sekampung irrigation service areas, delay in deciding canal capacities
till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage during the years 1979
and 1980, implementation is behind schedule by about two years. However,
the field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the
staffing situation has improved. Consultants have made substantial progress
on the preparation of designs and tender documents for the project. Due to
the GOI decision to defer construction of the Batutegi dam for 3 to 4 years,
the scope of the project has been revised. Disbursements are currently



- 33 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
about 35% of appraisal estimate. Studies of Dumoga irrigation project were
completed and implementation of its works included in Irrigation XV (Cr.
995-IND).
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The main part of this project, the Cipamingkis irrigation sub-
project is progressing well. This will serve an area of about 7,600 ha.
Its headworks with intake structure are completed while contracts for main
and secondary canals will be completed only a little behind schedule.
Tertiary design and construction are behind schedule but the project is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1984, a delay of 18 months as
compared to appraisal estimate. Feasibility studies including detailed
designs of a new Glapan barrage and mid-Lusi river diversion irrigation
system are underway. These replace the preconstruction work previously
planned for the Jragung dam, which is now being deferred. The Hydrological
measurement program is expected to be completed with a delay of about 18
months and will be completed in early 1983. Disbursements were about 58% of
the appraisal estimate at the end of February 1983.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the
Cisedane irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and
studies of drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation
areas; tidal and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang
and Mesuji areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and
detailed designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang
Agung of S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased
to 205,800 ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads
improvement are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985,
a delay of a year over appraisal estimate. All studies are completed.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 42% of the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the



- 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984.  Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 43% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1811   Fourteenth Irrigation:  $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date:  July 3, 1980; Closing Date:  January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabili-
tation of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area; and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen
Sampean subprojects. Contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one and a half year's delay because of weak
management and slow land acquisition.  Works in the Madiun area and the
tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 52% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: completion of the Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation
system for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and establishing a nature reserve
on an area of about 100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy
services and training; and studies and investigations of four irrigation
systems. Construction of the Toraut headworks and the first 2 km of the
main canal which commenced in January 1981 is progressing satisfactorily.
Offices, staff houses, and a rest house at Menado have been completed. The
award of two ICB contracts is behind schedule and project completion may be
delayed to June 1985 (compared to mid-1984 in the appraisal estimate). With
Bank agreement, GOI has expanded the nature reserve into a "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. Construc-
tion of the park headquarters building has commenced and is expected to be
completed by June 1983. Four studies included in the project have been
substantially concluded and some additional work was recently added.
Institutional support programs will continue up to June 1984. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 55% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project includes reclamation of 9,000 ha of Karang Agung swamp
area in South Sumatra province, construction of canals, land clearance,
construction of 3,200 settlers houses with community facilities for trans-
migrants from Java and Bali and studies for future swamp development,
upgrading of existing swamp development area and ecological studies of swamp
development. A civil works contract (ICB) for construction of canals, for



- 35 -                     ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 pages
about $4.5 million, was awarded on January 22, 1982. Consultants for
construction supervision were assigned in April 1982. Efforts are being
made to improve both the progress for the work as well as coordination
between the implementing agencies.
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and local
farmer lands; improvement of management information systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for water
users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological data
network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin and
detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: December 14, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project supported by the Bank to be
concentrated in a single province and implemented through a provincial irriga-
tion service. It will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems
serving about 50,000 ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about
13,000 ha; upgrade operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irriga-
tion systems already rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Given shortages in available land, in June 1982, the settlement
component was reduced from 30,000 families to 20,000 families and funds were
reallocated for site selection and evaluation for the GOI transmigration
program as a whole. Land has now been identified for about 16,000 families
under this project. About 1,100 families have been settled and 2,400 addi-
tional families should be settled by mid-1983. Improved extension and
support are required to ensure adequate food crop yields and a plan for the
introduction of tree crops has been requested from the GOI. Disbursements
as of February 1983 were 57% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This is the first of a series now consisting of seven projects
developing treecrops for smallholders, supported by Government Nucleus Estate



- 36 -                     ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
Companies.  Planting programs for 7,600 ha of rubber at Tebenan and for
rehabilitation of 18,000 ha of estate rubber have been completed but develop-
ment for smallholders at Alue Le Merah (only 4,700 ha out of a 7,000 ha pro-
gram completed) is well behind schedule. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. Difficulties have occured in quality of
rubber plantings, and currently with some trees now at maturity, attention
needs to be given to improving tapping practice and rubber processing.
Disbursements at December 31, 1982 were 62% of appraisal estimates and 92% of
the latest revised estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start, this project has substantially speeded up its
pace of implementation. New rubber planting for smallholders is now expected
to be completed in March 1983 in Jambi (3,800 ha), one year ahead of schedule,
and in 1983/84 in Riau (11,400 ha) on schedule. Following earlier problems,
quality of plantings has improved.  Rubber replanting at Riau (3,000 ha)
should also be completed during 1983/84 but the replanting component at Jambi
(4,500 ha) has not been successful. The 3,500 ha Nucleus Rubber Estate at
Riau although currently behind schedule is expected to be completed in time.
More attention needs to be given to development of smallholders food crops.
An extension of closing date to December 31, 1985, will probably be needed to
accommodate an alternative program to the replanting at Jambi. Disbursements
at end of December 1982 were 33% of the appraisal estimate but are expected to
improve in coming months.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule.  About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility For completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under NES
I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about 53% of
appraisal estimate, and 90% of the latest revised estimates.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980:  Effective Date:  August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a l-ittle behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about
53% of appraisal estimate, and 64% of latest revised estimates.



37                       ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber,
oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West
Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing
agents. The project has made a good start except that smallholder coconut
development at Cimerak, West Java (3,000 ha) is behind schedule due to land
use agreements needing to be finalized. The component to expand the Estates
Training Institute at Yogyakarta and to add another campus at Medan is
proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders
development program by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and
coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The project
implementing agencies PNP XXVIII and PTP XII face problems regarding local
cost financing of smallholder development, management problems and severe
labor shortage problems in Seram. PTP XII has however completed a difficult
26 km main access road over a short period.  PNP XXVIII-s project implemen-
tation is seriously delayed by lack of experienced senior and middle manage-
ment, technical and administrative staff, labor cooperation and coordination
with local government. GOI has been requested to urgently review this situa-
tion with a view to strengthening management, relieve the labor constraint and
improve local government's commitment to the project. PTP XXIII has made an
excellent effort to overcome the land acquisition problems. Cooperation with
local government and the local population is good. Rubber planting commenced
in 1982 and standards attained are satisfactory. Planning and training
programs for technical and administrative staff are well in hand and no
serious problems are foreseen.
Loan No. 2232   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII:  $154.6 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983, Effective Date:  February 18, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallhold-
ers (NES) development program by establishing about 59,000 ha of tree crops
(rubber and oil palm), food crops and house gardens in East and West
Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces. It would also support the institu-
tional strengthening of the Directorate General of Estates and other agencies
associated with tree crop development, marketing programs for smallholders,
and provide funds for start-up activities of future NES projects.



ANNEX II
_ 38 -                    Page 13 of 29 pages
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Project implementation continues in a generally satisfactory manner
with 17,300 ha of rubber planting (9% of appraisal target to that date)
undertaken by the end of December 1982. At that time, disbursements had
reached $9.8 million (85%) against an estimated $11.5 million. Although the
project currently faces no major problems, continuing tardy GOI budget
releases could soon become a critical factor. In order to ensure effective
continuing operations, project management is to strengthen Project Management
Units in some areas, undertake timely recruitment and training of staff at all
levels and produce appropriate training and extension manuals. Bank Rakyat
Indonesia and Agraria have been requested to play a more active role in the
land titling and loan conversion process. Revised versions of four studies
under the project are now available and preparation of the proposed Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project is nearing completion.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under the
project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are generally
not satisfactory. Problems relate to shortcoming in project management at
Head Office, Provincial Offices (POs) and Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating small-
holders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance stan-
dards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow release of
project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application and disburse-
ments. At end-December 1982, 8,102 ha of hybrid coconuts (89% of appraisal
target to that date) and 7,770 ha of tall coconuts (155% of appraisal target)
had been planted while rehabilitation of 5,050 ha of tall coconuts (74% of
appraisal target) had been undertaken. An in-depth review is being undertaken
by the Resident Mission to ascertain progress already made by GOI in over-
coming management and technical shortcomings at Head Office, Provincial
Offices and Coconut Working Centers, and to pinpoint any necessary additional
measures. To improve control of field operations, some restructuring of
management is required as well as reduction and rationalization of the project
area. GOI agrees in principle with these recommendations. Disbursements had
reached $4.2 million (47%) against an estimated $9.0 million.



- 39                Ali~~~SNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Good progress continues to be made with the construction program
and the bulk of the Rural Extension Centers programmed under the project are
expected to be completed in 1983. Staff recruitment has improved overall
but there are still shortages in some Provinces and the problem of shortage
of motor cycles for field staff continues. Active steps are being taken to
improve extension in non-rice crops. Interest in working towards a unified
extension service continues to be promoted. The project is making satis-
factory progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the
overall institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables,
livestock, fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and
industrial crops. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is functioning
efficiently. Steady progress being made in civil works program although
there are indications that this may slow down due to budgetary constraints.
The fellowship program has fallen behind schedule but is likely to gain
momentum following the production of a Manpower Development Plan which is
nearing finalization. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
inr-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Project implementation has
started slowly because the project implementing agencies are still reviewing
administrative and working procedures. Preparation of tender documents for
the procurement of equipment for seed is in hand. Participating agencies
show willingness to cooperate and project implementation is expected to
pick-up shortly.



- 40                      ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance has continued.
Activity targets are now being substantially met with the exception of the
Small Scale Industries (SSI) and Village Health Components. The SSI is
being vigorously monitored by the new Provincial Inspector for Industries
especially with respect to technical assistance which is designed to
complement the SSI credit program. The School Health Program is progressing
well and is now being complemented by the Village Kader Health program.
Severe drought has delayed the Water Supplies construction due to shortage
of water. The rigidity of GOI procurement regulations which do not permit
forward purchase of cement also contribute to the delay in construction of
tanks. The Roads Program is close to target achievement although high costs
are still a cause for concern.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's
small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account
for about a third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory
experience with this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a
nationwide SSE development project which is supported by the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is
fully disbursed, and the remaining balance of the technical assistance
component amounting to $9.0 million is financing ongoing technical
assistance under Loan 2011-IND (SEDP II).
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 small-
holders, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and
technical assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development,
training in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management
information systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy
services, the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following
extension of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it
is rapidly catching up. The project has been very successful in achieving
objectives.



- 4L1 -                   AINEX II
Page 16 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has
expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment
(KIK)/Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being
implemented. The Bank-financed portion of the credit component of SEDP II
was fully committed as of December 31, 1982, rapid expansion of lending
under the project, however, seems to have been accompanied by a slight
increase in arrears from 21% to 22% of outstanding loans. Bank Indonesia
(BI) and handling banks are aware of this problem and have recently
introduced a new reporting system to facilitate better collection and more
up-to-date information. BI's progress in implementing the technical
assistance components is also generally good, with the exception of the
Regional Development Bank upgrading. This latter component is still beset
with problems (lack of Regional Development Bank (RDB) counterpart staff,
delays in obtaining operational data, weak consultant teams from BAPINDO).
BI is evaluating consultant performance in the upgrading of RDBs. The
Ministry of Industry has finally started implementing the Technical Services
component with the recruitment of two consultants. As the entry of
consultants was delayed, disbursement of loan proceeds is also delayed.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869  Polytechnic:  $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC), six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and
include technical assistance and associated studies. The project is making
good progress and implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The
TEDC building and four of the six polytechnics have been completed and
construction of the remaining two is near completion. Equipment contracts
for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded and over 70% of
equipment ordered has been delivered. The expert services and fellowship
programs are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component is also
making good progress.  Two of the five study contracts are still to be
awarded. Operation has commenced in all six polytechnics since September
1982 but at 60% of full capacity. Disbursements at the end of February 1933
were over 100% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing



-42 -                    ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEG); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and 25
mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984. A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved. Disbursements at
the end of February 1983 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88% of
the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90% of
the construction in Phase II is finished. All furniture has been procured
and installed; all equipment has either been procured and delivered, or
contracts awarded and deliveries would be completed before closing date.
Training courses for teachers and staff of SPGs and IKIPs have been comple-
ted. A total of 6,100 persons have been trained. Project costs at comple-
tion are expected to result in $2 million savings. Book procurement has
been delayed due to ministerial procurement review procedures. This delay
is expected to result in a need to extend the closing date by one year.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial cen-
ters, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school educa-
tion) centers, has been-completed. All furniture and equipment are already
on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal
targets and production and distribution of pretested learning materials is



-43 -                    ANNEX II
Page 18 of 29 pages
accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff
have replaced foreign consultants. As of October 1982 estimated cumulative
disbursements had reached a total of $10.1 million or 67% of appraisal
estimates. Of the remaining loan funds it is estimated that US$5.45 million
will be disbursed by June 30, 1983, the project closing date. Approximately
$254,000 from unallocated category remains uncommitted.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term
strategy to impr:)ve the quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. Good progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of
February 1983 were 68% of the loan amount. The overall progress of the
fellowships program has been good. The regular program and the short course
program would be completed in December 1983 and the Ph.D. program at the
University of Sam Houston, Texas, is expected to be completed in June 1985.
Progress in achieving educational objectives is generally satisfactory. In
December 1982 the Bank agreed to the GOI-s request to reallocate $4.2 mil-
lion for preparatory stujdies and design work for the proposed Third
Agricultural Training Project, and $2.8 million for improvement of Ketindam
In-service Teacher Training Center (ISTC), additional boarding facilities at
17 existing ISTCs and upgrading the Ciawi ISTC.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university develop-
ment program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level
manpower and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia (UI) has
been completed and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected
to complete theirs by early 1983. The implementation of technical assist-
ance provisions is about 22 months behind appraisal schedule. Pending the
appointment of MUCIA to handle the fellowship program, the Directorate
General of Higher Education has administered overseas fellowships, which as
of December 31, 1982, totalled about 90 staff in the UK, USA, Australia,
Belgium, Thailand and the Philippines. Training of master trainers in
University Management and textbook editors is in progress in the UK; domes-
tic training in University Management is scheduled to start in April 1983
after the return of master trainers. Work is in progress for establishing a
Management Information System in the DGHE and in each project university.
Plans are being finalized for the policy study on student admissions.
Disbursements as of December 1982 were 40% of the appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
44 -                  Page 19 of 31 pages
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project would (a) construct and equip 60 preservice primary
primary teacher training schools (SPG) and 10 primary sports teacher train-
ing schools (SCO); (b) construct and equip 11 secondary teacher training
colleges (IKIP); (c) improve and expand teacher training colleges for
special education (SGPLB); (d) improve and expand inservice teacher training
facilities (PPPG and BPG); and (e) establish a Center for Educational Adminis-
tration (CEA).
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date:  June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project (ITP), a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook
development activities; a Center for Curriculum Development (CCD), which
would develop improved curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an
improved national distribution system for all textbooks for primary and
secondary schools. The implementation of the project is progressing satis-
factorily. The site of ITP/CCD office building has been acquired. Selec-
tion and acquisition of sites for regional warehouses and depots is in
progress. Consulting architects and engineers have been appointed. Staff
appointments at ITP are slightly behind schedule. Efforts are underway to
implement a program of overseas training of staff contract managerial
services for providing consultants and arranging foreign and local training
programs.-
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
original loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to
the inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the



ANNEX II
- 45 -                     Page 20 of 29 pages
project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of
location of future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information
system design. Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21
months. Commerclal operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected
early in 1984. Construction of the associated transmission lines is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has been completed and a site has been selected.
Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed,
and work is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Ioan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since
then has been satisfactory and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1
continues to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in
July 1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Toan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date:  October 24, 1980;  Closing Date:  September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e.
six months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year
due to delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts about 12-18
months behind SAR schedule, have been awarded and construction work has
commenced. The commissioning of the lines is currently scheduled in
December 1984.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth POwer:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generat-
ing equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been
placed with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million.
Construction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encoun-
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels.
However, the river diversion was accomplished in January 1983. The contruc-
tion program has been modified to ensure that original dam construction
targets are met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with about
6 months delays.



- 46 -                     ANNEX II
Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts worth about $119 million have already been evaluated and approved by
the Bank. PLN has already issued another invitation to bid for the balance
of the distribution equipment estimated at $44 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. There are some delays in
signing of main nine contracts. Out of a total of eight such contracts,
five have already been signed and the remaining three are in final stages.
The consultants performance is satisfactory. Soil investigation and
geological work is ongoing at the mine site. Although the turnkey contract
for the Tarahan terminal was signed it is still not effective. The Tarahan
Terminal remains on the project critical path and the best estimate is that
the first coal can be shipped to Suralaya by April 1985 which implies an
8-month delay. During the initial start-up there were moderate problems in
respect to project management and concerns arose with respect to the
procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the Bank. These
matters received close attention from the Bank missions and the issue has
now been resolved. Indonesia's constrained budget situation is likely to
result in a substantial shortfall of funds for this project in FY83/84 and
discussions with GOI are underway to determine how project construction can
be rephased without a substantial loss of anticipated benefits.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: March 1, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South and West Sumatra and other promising
areas in Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its
agencies with a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and
feasibility/prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling
it to establish investment priorities and define policies for its short,
medium- and long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
Loan No. 2214   Twelfth Power Project:  $300 Million Loan of December 27,
1982; Effective Date: March 29, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts valued at $36 million have already been approved by the Bank. PLN
has already issued bid invitation for Kamojang 2 x 55 MW units and bids



ANNEX II
- 47-                     Page 22 of 29 pages
are due to open on May 2, 1983. PLN is planning to issue another bid invi-
tation in May 1983 for the mini-hydro equipments. PLN has also issued bid
invitations for Suralaya Unit 3 boiler and turbine generator and bids are
due to open in June 1983.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industry
Loan No. 2199   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering:  $5.5 Million
Loan of November 18, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet
effective; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project would help finance the cost of: (i) basic engineer-
ing, procurement assistance including the preparation of tender documents,
prequalification, and bid evaluation for the Central Java pulp and paper
project; (ii) technical assistance in finalizing the wood supply arrange-
ments for the Central Java project; (iii) training of the project staff; and
(iv) a pulp and paper subsector study which would provide the basis for the
restructuring of the industry.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO has made good progress in committing proceeds of the Bank
loan and in implementing its General Improvement Program launched in 1981.
Judged on the basis of annual growth in lending operations (147% in 1981
compared with 89% in 1980) it appears the effect of major changes in
organizational structure has been positive, but there is still some scope
for improvements in term lending procedures and staff capbility to appraise
and supervise larger, more complex projects. Term lending in local and
foreign currency reached Rp 559 billion ($800 million) in 1982 or 43% over
1981. Strong investment demand from the industrial sector in 1982 underlies
this sharp expansion. Full disbursement by the closing date of September
1983 is expected.



- 48 -                    ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 pages
POPULATION AND HEALTH
Population
Loan No. 1472  Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
($3.8 Million cancelled February 25, 1983); Effective
Date:  August 4, 1977; Closing Date:  April 30, 1984
Progress on this project is generally satisfactory. About 90% of
original project activities have been completed.  The mobile service units
provided under the project are making a significant contribution to the
recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.  Training and population education
are substantially completed. The research components -the contraceptive raw
materials study is about 90% complete, and the community incentive scheme is
about 50% complete and both components should be satisfactorily completed
before the revised closing date of April 30, 1984. As of February 1983,
disbursements totalled $13.3 million, or 54%.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
Tarch 31, 1985
Progress on this project improved significantly during the second
half of 1982, largely due to increased attention to project implementation,
particularly civil works components, by project management and the addi-
tional staff assigned especially to help expedite this work. Population
education has made some encouraging progress, as funds have been released to
the provinces for expenditure on teacher training activities and detailed
guidelines for implementation of population education activities have been
issued by NFPCB. Contracts for procurement of audio-visual equipment have
been awarded. The training of nurses, midwives, traditional birth atten-
dants and health center staff has proceeded on the agreed-upon schedule.
Disbursements, however, do not yet reflect the noted upswing in project
activities.
Health
Loan No. 2235  Provincial Health; $27 Million Loan of February 18, 1983;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
Substantial progress has been made in the initial implementation
of the project. The FY83/84 project budget of US$10.5 million and work plan
have been completed and approved by BAPPENAS. The sites for the first-year
construction program are available and the architectural consultants have
completed the preliminary drawings for two hospitals. Consultants (financed



49                      AiNNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
by USAID) are now assisting in curriculum development and the training of
trainers in support of the project. Arrangements for the procurement of DDT
have been initiated and malaria consultants have already been identified and
their availability ascertained.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
There still remains an uncommitted balance of about $5.0 million
under this credit. Potential studies to utilize the remaining balance have
been identified and it is likely that the closing date for the credit will
be postponed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the
cartographic photographic processing, including color photo processing
equipment and printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed.
Computer equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank
and flatbed plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation
activities have been undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and
training of new staff, particularly at junior and middle level has recently
been accelerated. The new photography operation financed under the parallel
Caniadian Project was delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend
the Closing Date until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started
in July 1981 is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120  National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia
by substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport pro-
jects, including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
The project experienced delays in its start up phase. In particular, one of



ANNEX II
- 50 -                    Page 25 of 29 pages
the conditions for loan effectiveness was fulfilled with considerable delay,
thus delaying project implementation by six months. However, PUSRI has
taken steps to expedite project implementation although an extension of
project completion by six months is likely. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by about 10%-15%.
Highways
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
still behind schedule. The project is about 40% completed compared to 75%
scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project objectives,
which translate into program-type components and numerous consultancies; (b)
organization and management problems in the provincial highway agencies; and
(c) new development guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the
spread of investments over a larger number of projects with reduced stand-           (
ards. However, work is now underway on nearly all project components, and
there is still a reasonable chance of completing the project with a total
delay of about one year. The Provincial Departments of Public Works
programs of support works were started in January 1982 with mobilization of
consultants, and after road maintenance equipment had been ordered.
$6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to misprocurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to. the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule.  The project is about 3 months behind schedule.
Consequently, disbursements are likely to fall behind estimated disbursement
schedule, at least during the first one or two years.



- 51 -                      ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2083  Rural Roads Development:  $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date:  August 11, 1982.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works
agencies, implementing an expanded program of rural roads works, and
supporting a rural road development program for a three-year period in five
Indonesian provinces. The project also contains components for training and
technical assistance. Construction of some workshops has begun. Contracts
for all works equipment have been awarded. Progress under the project is
hampered by inadequate organizational arrangements and shortages of qualified
staff. Consequently disbursements have fallen behind appraisal estimates.
The next supervision mission will review with GOI actions required to
improve the rate of progress.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is part of the first phase of the Cbvernment s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of funds for
technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allocated. It is
expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date. The project
is essentially completed.
Ports
Loan ND. 1337    Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works under the project have been successfully comple-
ted. All of the equipment has been procured and installed and is fully
operational. As a result of the investments under the project, Tanjung
Priok Pbrt-s performance has improved dramatically.  Technical assistance,
amounting to $4.7 million is being used to finance consultant services for
preparation of the proposed Maritime Sector Development Program. The loan
is expected to close by June 30, 1983.



- 52 -                     ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
TOURISM
Credit No. 479   Bali Tourism:  $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
($1.4 million cancelled October 31, 1982); Effective
Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Infrastructure work at Nusa Dua has been substantially completed.
The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpassar bypass road
were completed and opened for traffic in December 1980. The hotel training
school was completed in July 1979 and has been in operation since then. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progress-
ing well with first phase completed in December 1982. Negotiations have
been concluded with Club Med for a hotel investment with the Bali Tourism
Development Corporation (BTDC) equity participation of $0.4 million. Out of
the total credit of $16.0 million, $1.4 million has been cancelled but
disbursements will continue up to December 31, 1983 against BTDC commitment
of $0.4 million for Club Med.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surahaya. The physical program has been completed with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future project preparation are
currently in progress.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in
each city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded.
Also included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management
program (SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in
Surabaya. The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its
actual coverage exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP



53                      ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
implementation is progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in
Jakarta due to earlier start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya
drainage component which was beset with land acquisition problems (for canal
dredging schemes) is now progressing satisfactorily. The overall project is
expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected date of December
31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 65% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972    Fourth Urban Development:  $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank.s assistance to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide
provincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with
a coverage in each city representing about 15% to 33% of total KIP area to be
upgraded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core
housing units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of
about 11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs compris-
ing solid waste improvement and improved water supply, are also included in
one of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering
125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning,
land registration and valuation programs. The development of the housing
and mortgage financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project.
Technical assistance for project management, training and feasibility
studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The
sites and services program is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays
in the implementation of the KIP programs have been overcome and the pro-
gress of these programs has significantly improved with the consultants
appointments. All technical assistance programs are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 33% of appraisal
estimate.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of
transmission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house



- 54 -                     ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and deliveries are in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is also underway. The organiza-
tional and management training for the WEs has been underway since September
1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of March
1983 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2236    Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation; $22.4 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983; Effective Date: Not yet effective:
Closing Date:  March 31, 1988.
The project is the first step in developing a sewerage system in
Jakarta and complements the public health measures carried out under
previous Bank-assisted urban development projects. Its principal objectives
are to (a) improve environmental conditions and public health, (b) establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation and management
of the Jakarta sewerage system and (c) demonstrate the feasibility of
appropriate low-cost technologies. The project covers sewerage and sanita-
tion improvements including (a) a basic water-borne sewerage system;
(b) drainage improvements; (c) sanitation improvements; (d) staff training
and fellowships; and (e) consulting services for project implementation and
for technical institutional and financial studies and the preparation of
future projects. Steps have been taken to establish the appropriate
institutional arrangements for project implementation, terms of reference
for the engagement of consultants have been agreed, and steps have been
taken for procurement by ICB of pipes.



- 55 -                       ANNEX III
INDONESIA
EAST JAVA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                18 months
(b)  Project preparation agency:                 Cipta Karya of Ministry
of Public Works
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank,
and Bank consideration thereof:             July 1980
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   June 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         March 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              July 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions:
A "Project Launch" workshop is under consideration.
Section III: Special Conditions
GOI to ensure that:
(a) Water systems built under the project would be operated by PDAMs
who would be given assistance and training in accounting and
management (paras. 32 and 34);
(b) Operational revenues of the beneficiary PDAMs would cover
operation, maintenance and depreciation expenses (para. 48); and
(c) It would study alternatives to grant financing and consider
tariffs that would produce satisfactory levels of financial
,performance as well as capital cost recovery while remaining
affordable (para. 49).



:



-AYEIA  ,~~Y  7           '                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD  16769R
5AeY  A                                              11'2                                                                                                         INDQNESIA             1-                            AUR    9
EAST:JAVA WATER SUPPLY9 PROJECT
-\ 9 2 X  ; |. ''  W'  '_ 9 K ALU M  oA dN nTA\; 
7                                                                                                             ~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   :  NA~ CIT !ES INVQlyED, IN PRQJECT
o~A   cR ~LLWIKIK TowNi tVOLVEDIN J~                                                                                                                                                                                      C
DISTI    IKABUIPATENSI INVOLVED IN PROJECT
ICA:                                                                                                                                                             U       PREVIOUS PROJECT9
2--: :+'~ W:\  ... I/A                                                                       S    A                                                                                   SJRABAYA CITY LIMITS
JAAA                                                                                            ______  ROAD                                  IIISTR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iKTOARURATENI EOUND3ARIES
fAA/AN   QOSAM  M9~~~~~~~~~1RFA  o~~~~~>  -                                                               I  -+   RAILW~~~~~~~~Y$              - ~~     PR"VN,CIAL BOUNDARIES
__________ -~ _=VERS                                                                                                                                         -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
L t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i1 A -.eAl  T .ba, XXiXG   
-        *  Tar~~~~~~~ibekboynA~~Pi I
6-e-N7FA/      ~           ~            .IIRg -iV  '  )-                                                                                   Ketnso    ___ _  R*kRbR RE                   ,                               > 
J VT  I  IA VA                    P1dng - 
0      .    i              SY 4   :' RE us
0-,0 0                'r'0- 9O90IE TO CO7 OEOoooI  9900 fRI IN09vd09e0                          I    SR
'105 o  od-idof lEe W'IdSR9Ao999,o,,No,w fIIfdn6g,F,dnooC00009iAO A'stfdAddcfd                      h9L5             10      2R        30        4ft      505_    
Rnd 900s1s9s06 'oldy le~0OT tfto 9 WIr vg A sndsen ,:mRor secsan. of,  EA90oun bss
L     1110p:                               h__                          11                                                               1130                                                             ff 'i45 



