0FF
DOCUNIEN      LOAN NUMBER 2275 IND
Loan Agreement
(East Java Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2275 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (he     inafter called   the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Cipta Karya" means the Directorate General of Housing,
Building, Planning and Urban Development in the Borrower's Minis-
try of Public Works;
(b) "DSE" means the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
operating under the responsibility of the Directorate General of
Cipta Karya;
(c) "PDAM" means any Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a region-
al water enterprise, established pursuant to the provisions of
the Borrower's Law No. 5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of 1974 and Decree
No. 26 of 1975 of the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs, as any
of the same may be amended from time to time; and
(d) "Project PDAM" means a PDAM serving, or which will
serve, the following areas in East Java Province: Madiun, Malang,
Mojokerto, Sampang, Sidoarjo, Situbondo, Tuban and Tulungagung.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty mil-
lion six hundred thousand dollars ($30,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Aqreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to seventy-six thousand three hundred nine dollars
($76,309).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.


﻿- 3 -
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through Cipta Karya with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, engineering and finan-
cial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.


﻿Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be se-
lected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemni-
ty shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-5-
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish or cause to be
established: (i) a Project Management Unit, which shall be res-
ponsible to Cipta Karya for overall management and coordination
of Project; and (ii) a Project Implementation Unit, which shall
be responsible to the Project Management Unit for day-to-day
implementation of the Project.
Section 3.07. For the purpose of implementing the Project
effectively, the Borrower shall cause the Provincial Government
and the relevant departments and agencies of the Borrower to
formalize their respective obligations concerning the carrying
out of the physical, institutional and training aspects of the
Project including provision of staff and appropriate and timely
instructions on implementation.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall issue, or cause to be
issued, to the Project PDAMs instructions which shall contain
inter alia: (i) a description of the physical, institution
building and training aspects of the Project; (ii) criteria for
tariff, revenue and financial performance consistent with the


﻿- 6 -
provisions of Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement; (iii) the
obligation to participate in the institutional and training acti-
vities of the Project; and (iv) the obligation to establish and
maintain accounting systems and to prepare monitoring indicators.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall have established and staff-
ed PDAMs in the kabupatens of Situbondo, Tuban and Tulungagung by
December 31, 1984.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) complete the study
under Part C.3 of the Project by June 30, 1984, discuss the
recommendations of such study with the Bank and incorporate them
as appropriate in its policies for urban water supply development
and in its National Guidelines for Tariff Structure by December
31, 1984; and as they relate to the Project PDAMs, implement the
accepted recommendations by June 30, 1985;
(b) complete the review under Part C.4 of the Project by
June 30, 1984, discuss the recommendations with the Bank and
implement the accepted recommendations by June 30, 1985; and
(c) complete the study under Part C.5 of the Project by
December 31, 1983, discuss the recommendations with the Bank and
implement the accepted recommendations by December 31, 1984.
Section 3.11. With respect to Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, a training
program satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost


﻿- 7 -
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisioAs, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institu-
tion performing the functions of a central bank or exchange sta-
bilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
(including the Project PDAMs) responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
to be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than seven months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(d) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall, in accordance with the schedule below, cause the Project
PDAMs to establish an accrual accounting system which shall be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
and shall furnish a copy of said audit not later than seven
months after the end of such PDAM's fiscal year: (i) for the Pro-
ject PDAMs in Madiun, Malang, Mojokerto and Sidoarjo for fiscal
year 1984 and thereafter, and (ii) for the Project PDAMs in
Sampang, Situbondo, Tuban and Tulungagung for fiscal year 1986
and thereafter.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause each Project PDAM:
(a)  to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice;
(b)  to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, engineering and finan-
cial practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain their plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, engineering
and financial practices.


﻿-9-
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)  the Borrower shall with respect to fiscal year 1985 and
thereafter, take or cause to be taken, all such measures as shall
be required to produce for the Project PDAMs for each of its
fiscal years, gross revenues from all sources equivalent to not
less than the sum of its operating expenses and depreciation.
For the purpose of this paragraph:
(i) The term "gross revenues from all sources" means
the sum of revenues from all sources related to
water operation, house connections, and cash con-
sumer contributions in aid of construction, but
excluding non-operating income and any other cash
inflows.
(ii) The term "operating expenses" means the sum of all
expenses related to water operations, including
maintenance and administration, but excluding
depreciation.
(iii) The term "depreciation" means the annual provision
charged against revenues to depreciate, on a basis
acceptable to the Bank, the current value of the
water fixed assets in operation as valued from
time to time in accordance with methods of valua-
tion satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the structure and the average
level of water charges mentioned in paragraph (a) above to be
reviewed from time to time.
(c) Thne Borrower shall cause all assets provided under the
Project to be inventoried and transferred to the relevant Project
PDAM as soon as possible after construction is completed.
(d) The Borrower shall cause the depreciation allowance
above to be applied to the further improvement and expansion of
water systems.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure that) commencing with its fiscal year 1985, all amounts
owed to any of the Project PDAMs for services provided to any
department or agency of the Borrower are paid not later than
sixty days after the date of billing.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the charges for
domestic service connections in the area served by the Project
PDAMs does not exceed the average cost of such connections and
shall permit customers to pay for such connections over a period
of three to five years from the date of connection.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any Project PDAM or for the suspension of its operations;
(b) any Project PDAM shall have become unable to pay its
debts as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been
taken by any Project PDAM or by others whereby any of the proper-
ty of such PDAM shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
and
(c) any change in the instructions referred to in Section
3.08, which shall materially and adversely affect the carrying
out of the Project, shall have been made.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 (a) or 5.01 (b) shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date          31 m3, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     0clex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               8,700,000         45%
(2) Materials and            11,300,000          100% of foreign
equipment                                   expenditures;
95% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
65% of local
expenditures for
items imported
locally procured
(3) Consultants' and          5,100,000          100%
specialists' ser-
vices, and over-
seas training
(4) Fee                          76,309         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               5,423,691
TOTAL              30,600,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding   the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 15 -
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Establishment and   improvement of about fifty piped
water supply systems in eight selected areas in East
Java (Madiun, Malang, Mojokerto, Sampang, Sidoarjo,
Situbondo, Tuban and Tulungagung), such systems to
include source development, pumps and motors, transmis-
sion and distribution pipe, service reservoirs and
treatment where appropriate, service connections and
public standpipes, vehicles and miscellaneous equipment
and office and workshop space; and replenishment of
water works equipment and material stores for use in
East Java Province.
Part B:   1.   Developing and strengthening the Project PDAMs by
providing organization, management, accounting and
operations assistance and training.
2.   Strengthening Cipta Karya, including DSE, and the
water supply training program inter alia by pro-
viding technical assistance and equipment and by
training staff.
Part C:   1.   Strengthening  the  capabilities  of the    project
management and implementation units, inter alia by
providing technical assistance.
2.   Strengthening the provincial unit responsible for
assisting and monitoring the management and opera-
tion of the PDAMs of East Java Province.
3.   Carrying out a study, based on the Project PDAMs,
of (a) tariffs which would remain affordable to
consumers and produce satisfactory levels of
financial   performance  including   capital   cost
recovery, (b) phasing of implementation of such
tariffs, and (c) alternative methods of capital
cost recovery including recommendations on insti-
tutional arrangments and mechanisms for collection
aad re: nvestment of funds at national, provincial
and katupaten levels.


﻿- 17 -
4.   Reviewing and improving planning and design cri-
teria for water supply projects.
5.   Carrying out a study on the administrative, tech-
nical and other problems affecting collection of
water charges, using as case studies areas assist-
ed under Bank financed projects.
6.   Preparing future water supply projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Aortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1988
through   May 15, 2003                         1,020,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so Long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.id.f (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use oz installation shall be included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of   each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If   as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 22 -
would have to pay for the import      )n of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such nrice.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's procurement procedures in effect as of the date of
this Agreement based on standard documents satisfactory to the
Bank provided that such contracts shall be grouped so as to
achieve efficiency in procurement, consistent with appropriate
technical and procurement practices.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each may be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's
procurement procedures in effect as of the date of this Agree-
ment; provided that the value of such contracts shall not exceed
in the aggregate $2,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time


﻿- 23 -
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day ofilh A  , 198   .
2O
FOR SECRETARY


