                                     Document of
                               The World Bank
                      International Development Association



                                                              Report No: ICR1214



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF92600 & TF92601)



                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8 MILLION


                                      TO THE

              FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                     FOR AN

  ETHIOPIA ELECTRICITY ACCESS RURAL EXPANSION PROJECT, PHASE II
     GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP ON OUTPUT-BASED AID (GPOBA) GRANT



                                 May 30, 2014




Energy Practice 1
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCE3
Africa Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2013)

              Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (ETB)
                     ETB18.7325 = US$ 1
                      US$1.5039 = SDR 1

                GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                     JULY 8 – JULY 7

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BLS     Baseline Surveys
CFL     Compact Fluorescent Lamp
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DSM     Demand Side Management
EAREP   Electricity Access Rural Expansion Project
EEPCo   Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
ETB     Ethiopia Birr
ESMAP   Energy Sector management Program
FM      Financial Management
GNI     Gross National Income
GoE     Government of Ethiopia
GPOBA   Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid
GTP     Growth and Transformation Plan
HH      Household
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IVA     Independent Verification Agent
kWh     Kilowatt hour
MetEC   Metals and Engineering Corporation
MoFED   Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MW      Megawatt
M&V     Monitoring and Verification
NPV     Net present value
OBA     Output based-aid
O&M     Operations and Maintenance
PDO     Project Development Objective
UAEP    Universal Access Expansion Programme
UEAP    Universal Electricity Access Programme




                               ii
      Vice President: Makhtar Diop
    Country Director: Guang Zhe Chen
     Sector Manager Lucio Monari
Project Team Leader: Issa Diaw
   ICR Team Leader: Issa Diaw
 ICR Primary Author Maria Alexandra Planas




                   iii
iv
                FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
     Electricity Access Rural Expansion Project, Phase II – Global Partnership on
                          Output Based Aid (GPOBA) Grant


                                                       CONTENTS
DATA SHEET 
A. Basic Information 
B. Key Dates 
C. Ratings Summary 
D. Sector and Theme Codes 
E. Bank Staff 
F. Results Framework Analysis 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs 
H. Restructuring (if any)  
I. Disbursement Profile 
Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ....................................................... 1 
Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................... 5 
Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................. 13 
Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................. 17 
Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................. 18 
Lessons Learned................................................................................................................ 20 
Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors....................... 22 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 23 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 24 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 25 
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 28 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 30 
Annex 6. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................ 33 
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 39 
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 40 




                                                                v
vi
DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information

                                                              Ethiopia Electricity
                                                              Access Rural
Country:           Ethiopia              Project Name:
                                                              Expansion Project,
                                                              Phase II - GPOBA
Project ID:        P105651               L/C/TF Number(s):
ICR Date:          05/28/2014            ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                              Ethiopian Electric
Lending Instrument: Grant                Grantee:             Power Corporation
                                                              (EEPCo)
Original Total
                    USD8.00M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 0.45M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD8.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ethiopia Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo )
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                     Revised / Actual
    Process            Date         Process         Original Date
                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:                 Effectiveness:       05/31/2009        03/06/2007
Appraisal:                      Restructuring(s):                      12/21/2011
                                Mid-term
Approval:         11/11/2008                         10/21/2010        04/20/2012
                                Review:
                                Closing:             12/31/2011        06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             High
Bank Performance:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                     Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
                     Moderately
Quality at Entry:                       Government:        Unsatisfactory
                     Unsatisfactory

                                       vii
Quality of             Moderately          Implementing       Moderately
Supervision:           Satisfactory        Agency/Agencies:   Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank           Moderately          Overall Borrower
                                                              Unsatisfactory
Performance:           Unsatisfactory      Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
   Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                             Rating
     Performance                              (if any)
Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any                  Quality of
                         Yes                               None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                      Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                  100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural services and infrastructure                       100              100

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                   At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:         Makhtar Diop                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:       Guang Zhe Chen               Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:         Lucio Monari                 S.Vijay Iyer
Project Team Leader:    Issa Diaw                    Luiz A. Maurer
ICR Team Leader:        Issa Diaw
ICR Primary Author:     Maria Alexandra Planas




                                         viii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the GPOBA project is to increase access to electricity in towns and
villages with grid-access, by financing connection costs and providing two Compact
Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) for poor households (hhs).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
There was no change to the PDO.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally        Actual Value
                                          Values (from        Revised     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                            approval          Target     Completion or
                                           documents)         Values     Target Years
                Number of new households with an operative metered connection made
Indicator 1 :
                by EEPCo that received a 5-year loan to finance such connection
                                        A total of
                                        228,571 rural hhs
                Zero. No customer       will be connected
                connections so far meet and/or have their
Value
                the requirement of 5- connections
quantitative or                                             N/A         43,004
                year loans and include regularized with
Qualitative)
                2 CFLs as part of the proper metering,
                connection package      as a result of this
                                        GPOBA
                                        intervention.
Date achieved 05/29/2009                06/29/2012          N/A        06/30/2013
                19 percent of the planned connections under the project were achieved
Comments
                mainly due to the two year Government moratorium on connections and
(incl. %
                lack of meters afterwards due to the Government’s decision to single
achievement)
                source meter supplies.
                Number of energy efficient CFLs (two per household) provided to those
Indicator 2 :
                newly connected households
                                        457,142 CFLs
                                        will be
                Zero. No customer
                                        distributed to
                connections so far meet
Value                                   those customers
                the requirement of 5-
quantitative or                         to promote                     32,176
                year loans and include
Qualitative)                            energy
                2 CFLs as part of the
                                        conservation and
                connection package
                                        reduce their
                                        electricity


                                           ix
Date achieved 05/29/2009              06/29/2012
              7 percent of the planned CFLs were distributed under the project due
Comments
              mainly to insufficient communication of the GPOBA program
(incl. %
              requirements between central and local EEPCo’s offices and logistical
achievement)
              challenges creating delays in the delivery of the CFLs to local offices

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                          Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                             approval        Target       Completion or
                                           documents)        Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Monitoring and Verification Agency hired and operational
                                        TOR,                             Monitoring and
                                        procurement of                  verification
Value
                No M&V in place, No firm, operational                   agency was
(quantitative
                TOR                     and able to attest              recruited and
or Qualitative)
                                        first batch of                  performed three
                                        connections                     verifications.
Date achieved 05/29/2009                11/30/2009
Comments
                100 percent. Three verification reports were delivered with satisfactory
(incl. %
                quality and information
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                           Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    06/30/2009     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  2    12/17/2009 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
  3    06/29/2010 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
                       Moderately              Moderately
  4    03/28/2011                                                                 0.00
                     Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  5    12/03/2011 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
  6    06/30/2012 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 0.06
                       Moderately              Moderately
  7    12/28/2012                                                                 0.06
                     Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory




                                            x
H. Restructuring (if any)
                         ISR Ratings    Amount
                Board        at       Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring
               Approved Restructuring Restructuring
   Date(s)                                             & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change                 in US$
                          DO     IP
                                        millions
                                                    The project was restructured
                                                    to extend the closing date
                                                    from December 31, 2011 to
                                                    June 30, 2013 and to change
 12/21/2011       N       MS    MS          0.00
                                                    the disbursement schedule
                                                    of the OBA subsidy
                                                    provided to the EEPCo
                                                    under the grant

I. Disbursement Profile




                                       xi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1.   Context at Appraisal

1.      At appraisal in 2008, Ethiopia had a per capita Gross National Income (GNI) of
US$150. The population was about 75 million inhabitants, of which 85 percent lived in
rural areas. The country was subject to uncertain rainfall patterns leading to cyclical
droughts and famine crises. About 44 percent of the population lived below the poverty
line of US$1 per day. The pro-poor spending, as a share of the budget, had risen from 28
percent in 1999/2000 to 57 percent in 2004/05, but the country still lacked very basic
infrastructure and depended heavily on financial aid, particularly for food in times of low
rainfall.

2.      Ethiopia also presented one of the lowest electrification rates in sub-Saharan
Africa. The national electricity coverage was 17 percent but overall national access was
only 7 percent and access in rural areas was 2 percent. Biomass represented 90 percent of
the country’s total energy needs. This pattern of energy consumption had led to
increasing deforestation, shortage of wood fuel and degradation of the rural ecosystems.

Sector Background

3.     Most of the electricity users were served by the Ethiopian Electric Power
Corporation (EEPCo), a state owned national utility. EEPCo served more than 1 million
customers and had about 850 Megawatts (MW) of installed capacity. The generation
source was mainly hydropower, vulnerable to droughts. The government’s plan in 2008
was to increase access coverage from 17 percent to 50 percent in 5 years, under the
auspices of the Universal Access Expansion Program (UAEP) launched two years before.
The country was increasing its hydro capacity significantly, aiming at meeting domestic
needs and exporting to neighboring countries.

4.     Average tariffs in Ethiopia were about US$0.06/kWh. The tariff system included
several consumption brackets, with higher tariffs for consumers with a higher
consumption. The lifeline tariffs relevant to the targeted poorest strata of the population
were about US$0.03/kWh up to a consumption of 50 kWh; this tariff did not cover
operating costs. In spite of that, EEPCo was connecting poor households, as it was
required by the regulator to do so, and the household would pay the full connection
charge upfront. The tariff structure was designed so that higher consumption brackets
cross-subsidized lower consumption brackets. With the prevailing average tariff, EEPCo
was able to produce an internal net cash generation of about US$40-50 million per year,
which was being reinvested in expanding coverage.

Rationale for GPOBA Assistance

5.      The Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) grant represented an
important share of the Government of Ethiopia’s (GoE) efforts aimed at providing access
to electricity to poor segments of rural population. The grant (US$8 million) was linked
to the US$170 million IDA-financed Ethiopia Electricity Access Rural Expansion Project

                                            1
Phase II (EAREP II), which was approved by the Bank Board on July 3, 2007. The main
objective of EAREP II was to provide energy to about 1.3 million customers benefiting a
population of almost 5 million people. EAREP II included grid, mini-grid and off-grid
electrification.

6.      The purpose of the GPOBA Grant was to accelerate the pace of connections
among grid customers by making the payment of the connection charge affordable to the
poor population through five-year, interest rate free loans. The grant also covered the
distribution of two free Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) to ensure an affordable bill
for households (hhs) and to promote energy efficiency. No specific Output Based-aid
(OBA) interventions were planned to subsidize mini-grid or off-grid customers. The
project met GPOBA operational criteria, as well as the core OBA principles of:

      Payment linked to performance: A fixed subsidy of US$ 35 per connection would
       be given to EEPCo after the following conditions were met: (i) EEPCo has made
       electricity connections to new households, which have received a five-year loan
       and two free CFLs each; and (ii) EEPCo has invoiced and collected the proceeds
       for three billing cycles.
      Explicit targeting of subsidies to the poor: EEPCo provided connection fee
       financing to hhs in certain target areas, that is, any region or district that had been
       grid-electrified by EEPCo for more than a year. Experience showed that
       households able to pay the connection fee would do so right after the village was
       electrified. Those who needed financing would wait until the financing scheme
       was in place. The targeting was expected to be consistent with the GoE’s policy
       of providing equity and broad geographical coverage for its rural electrification
       access program.
      Encouraging accountability of risk sharing by providers and financiers: EEPCo
       was expected to bear all construction and commercial risks as it would only
       receive the subsidy after certain conditions were met. EEPCo was responsible for
       connecting the rural customers at required technical and safety standards, and for
       supplying power before receiving the entire OBA subsidy.
      User contribution leveraged: To provide access to towns and villages, Ethiopia
       had been investing significant resources, or close to US$1,000-1,200 per customer
       in upstream assets in distribution and sub-transmission. However, without
       customers being also connected to the grid, the benefits of this upstream
       investment did not materialize. Customers had a high willingness to pay
       compared to their income, as they highly appreciated the value of electricity.
       However, they were financially constrained and could not afford the average one-
       time US$75 user contribution for connecting each household. Providing
       connection fee financing to be repaid overtime facilitated connection to the grid
       for the poorest.
      Innovation: This was the first GPOBA project in energy that aimed to increase
       access by making the connection charge affordable to the poor. The connection
       cost would be fully borne by the target group itself; the OBA subsidy would cover
       the interest of the five-year loan only. The GPOBA rationale was that by
       mitigating the impact of the connection cost as a barrier to entry, the pace of
       connections among poor households would accelerate.

                                             2
        Encouraging sustainability. The other innovative aspect was to use part of the
         subsidy to provide energy efficient CFLs to the beneficiary customers in order to
         reduce their electricity bill and improve prospects of their being able to afford the
         electricity services once connected. Distributing CFLs would also be beneficial to
         EEPCo, as the cross-subsidized tariffs paid by the poorest did not cover the cost
         of service provision.
        Monitoring of Results. This was an integral part of the project since verified
         outcomes would trigger the subsidy payments. An Independent Verification
         Agent (IVA) was hired by the Bank to avoid any conflict of interest since the
         grant was to be implemented directly by EEPCo.

1.2.     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.     The main objective of the GPOBA project was to increase access to electricity in
towns and villages with grid-access, by financing connection costs and providing two
free Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) for poor households (hhs).1

8.      The key project indicators which would be used to assess overall performance of
the project included:
     Number of household connections executed, for which 5-year loans were granted
     Number of CFLs distributed among those customers.

1.3.     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
         Indicators, and reasons/justification

9.       The PDO and the key indicators were not revised during project implementation.

1.4.     Main Beneficiaries

10.     It was expected that the GPOBA intervention would result in new, or regularized,
connections to 228,571 poor rural households representing a population of about
1,340,000. The target population included residential users in grid-electrified rural towns
and villages who had applied for a new metered connection, in conjunction with a five
year loan from EEPCo. The minority of households who could afford the connection fee
tended to pay soon after the town was electrified hoping to have a faster connection.



1
  The Grant Agreement defines the project development objective slightly differently as follows: “The
objective of the Grant was to increase access to electricity for up to 228,571 poor households in rural towns
and villages with grid-access, within the context of the Universal Electricity Access Program (UEAP), by
assisting EEPCo in its connection fee-financing program. The increased access to electricity will improve
the quality of life, enhance educational services, and provide income-generating opportunities.” The grant
agreement PDO introduces higher level objectives of electricity access which the project results framework
does not measure, thus the team decided to use the PDO in the GPOBA Commitment Paper as the basis for
this assessment. However, during project implementation, a socio-economic assessment that measured
households’ perception of benefits of being grid connected was carried out. The findings of the baseline
assessment are reflected in section 3.5 of this document.


                                                     3
1.5.       Original Components

11.        The GPOBA Commitment Paper included three Components, as follows:

          Component 1 (Recipient executed activity): Subsidy. The GPOBA subsidy
           consisted of a payment of US$35 to EEPCo per customer connected, to help the
           utility defray its working capital costs of financing the one-time connection fee
           and providing two free CFLs per household.

          Component 2 (Bank executed activity): Output Monitoring and Verification. This
           component would finance the independent verification and certification that the
           physical outputs described above have been delivered to the client, and that the
           flow of funds between EEPCo and the customer has been executed as per the
           procedures contained in the Operations Manual, with the proper documentation in
           place. Verification of the outputs would entitle EEPCo to receive the subsidy
           from GPOBA.

          Component 3 (Bank executed activity): World Bank Supervision. This component
           would finance supervision to be performed over the Grant implementation period.
           It was envisaged that supervision would take place in conjunction with the other
           three energy access (EARAP I- Cr4200-ET, EARAP II-Cr4344-ET and Energy
           Access- Cr3712 & 4795-ET) projects financed by the Bank, which would enable
           a reduction in costs and better synergy among the multiple electrification efforts.

1.6.       Revised Components

12.     The project components were not revised during project implementation.
However, an electricity market evaluation and a socio-economic impact assessment
(which included gender aspects) of the Grant were included in the Independent
Verification Agent (IVA) tasks during project implementation. The IVA was expected to
evaluate the socio-economic and gender impacts of GPOBA connections on the quality of
life and increase in family income among those households which benefitted directly
from the program. The IVA was required to collect information on the electricity market
in selected towns and villages, e.g. basic geo-demographic figures, quality of power
supply, informal connections, evolution of penetration rates and the impact of GPOBA
grants etc.

1.7.       Other significant changes

13.     The project was restructured in December 2011 to extend the closing date of the
GPOBA Grant for 18 months to June 30, 2013 and to change the disbursement schedule
of the OBA subsidy provided to the EEPCo under the Grant.

14.    The closing date extension would help make up for the two-year delay (2009-
2010) in starting Grant implementation caused by a moratorium on connections imposed
by the GoE, as a result of the major power supply crisis faced by the country at the time.


                                                4
15.     The subsidy disbursement schedule was modified to frontload the subsidy
payments to EEPCo, providing more funds for procuring materials in the hope of
accelerating the access scale-up programs. The original disbursement schedule provided
for payment of 50 percent of the subsidy upon operative connection, connection fee
financing and acquisition of 2 CFLs and the remaining 50 percent after three successful
billing cycles (50:50). The modified subsidy disbursement schedule was an 80:20 ratio.
This was justified in view of increased inflation in the country, which increased the cost
of working capital for EEPCo to finance connections upfront.

16.      Moreover due to the backlog of connections accumulated over the moratorium
period and the large access plan for the upcoming years, there was a significant demand
for the electricity service coming from both households that could pay the full connection
charge (average $75) upfront as well as from lower- income households that could only
afford to pay the connection charges in several installments (the main target of the
GPOBA Grant). Therefore, it was important to increase the incentive to the utility to
expedite connections under the GPOBA, since the verification process required for
disbursement under GPOBA resulted in an average six month delay between actual
connections and the payment of the first part of the subsidy, and an average nine month
delay between actual connections and the payment of the second part of the subsidy, after
three successful billing cycles.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.   Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.     Project design benefited from important analytical and on-the ground experience
in the country. In the year prior to the approval of the Grant, the government expansion
program had gained significant momentum, 1,200 towns and villages had access to
electricity and EEPCo had about 1.2 million customers 2 as of April 2007. EEPCo
connected 150,000 and 178,767 new customers in 2005 and 2006 respectively. Studies
revealed that compared to the upstream cost of providing electricity services (generation,
transmission, and distribution), the cost of connecting households to the grid—the “last
mile”—represented a small fraction of the utility’s total investment (only 3 percent).
Customers in newly electrified towns and villages had a high willingness and, in many
cases, capacity to pay for the monthly services, including the poorest.3 However, for poor
households, the connection cost constituted a significant barrier to access, resulting in a
very slow connection growth rate. EEPCo trials revealed that financing the connection
fee resulted in a 20 percent increase in the pace of direct connections. However, EEPCo
was unable to maintain the financing scheme due to the limited availability of working


2
  Including 360,000 in Addis Ababa
3
  The average connection cost for customers living near the grid (usually less than 150 feet) ranged from
US$50 to US$100 per household. In those areas where annual income was less than US$500 per
household, a connection costing US$75 represented 15 percent of the average annual income per
household. Even the poorest households, with an ability to pay of US$1/month, could afford the cost of the
typical electricity bill. A modest household with a consumption of 15kWh/month would spend about
US$8–10 per year at prevailing rates.

                                                    5
capital.

18.    The GPOBA project was innovative in its approach by removing the barrier to
access and reducing the cost of electricity to poor consumers. The subsidy to EEPCo was
used to cover the cost to EEPCo of maintaining the financing scheme i.e. spreading the
connection fee over five years, and introducing demand side management with the
provision of two CFLs. The project was designed to rely on the existing institutional and
implementation arrangements, used for the ongoing IDA financed access project. The
mechanism for targeting the poor was simple and effective.

19.     Relevant risks were identified but underestimated. The overall risk of the grant
was rated low at appraisal. A more conservative assessment of sector concerns such as
limited power supply and the capacity of the utility to pursue its ambitious access
programs would have been useful to anticipate the GPOBA grant’s implementation
challenges and to set more realistically the final connection target. Of the risks identified,
the measurement/verification of outputs, which was rated low, materialized during
project implementation as the IVA had difficulty identifying customers that benefited
from the 5-year loans, obtaining documentation as evidence of payment of the three
billing cycles 4 . Also the IVA observed that in some instances there was not full
compliance with GPOBA technical and safety grant requirements. The EEPCo
cooperated with the IVA to address these challenges that delayed the verification and
disbursement process. However, the actual implementation period 5 was too short to
observe improvement in the quality of the connections and coordination between the
EEPCo’s various departments. Had the implementation period not been severely cut short
by delays, the combined efforts of the Bank team and EEPCo to address the challenges
would have led to significant improvements. Additionally, the willingness of the
regulator to ensure that the tariff structure covers at least Operations and Maintenance
(O&M) costs was a risk deemed ‘medium’ at appraisal. This risk materialized as the
Government did not allow EEPCo to increase its tariffs in a context of high inflation and
rapid depreciation of the Ethiopian Birr. However, this had little impact on the project.

20.    The factors which ultimately crippled implementation of the project, namely the
government’s policy decisions occasioned by the unanticipated electricity supply
constraint, were impossible to predict during the design stage of the project, given the
progress of the ongoing hydropower projects.

2.2.    Implementation

21.   Implementation of the grant was affected by two major policy decisions of the
government: (i) the moratorium on connections, in response to electricity supply


4
  The IVA verification system used EEPCo’s billing documentation. The fact that EEPCo was putting in
place an electronic billing system delayed the first verification of the billing cycles. However, the situation
has improved once it was in place.
5
  The “actual period of implementation” refers to a period shorter than the total project life, as
implementation was interrupted for extended periods by the moratorium on connections and by the lack of
meters.

                                                      6
constraints; and (ii) the requirement of sole source procurement of meters, to support the
development of local industry. These policy decisions had a negative impact on all rural
electrification projects in Ethiopia in terms of disbursements, achievement of the PDO,
and performance of the overall energy portfolio which constitutes around US$1billion
and is a major share of IDA’s commitments in Ethiopia. High level discussions were
therefore carried out with the GoE, with the participation of both the sector and country
management units. Since FY13, this has resulted in time bounded action plans to
restructure the energy portfolio and improve performance. However, it should be
recognized that the impact of the above-mentioned GoE policy decisions on the GPOBA
grant was very visible, because disbursements were made based on verified outputs, and
while the connections were low the number of connections eligible for GPOBA financing
was less.

22.     The GPOBA grant agreement was signed in October 2008 but the start of
implementation was delayed for about two years due to a major electricity supply crisis
that affected Ethiopia over 2008- 2010. The EEPCo had successfully scaled up grid
expansion and was constructing three dams whose output would meet the corresponding
electricity demand. The power crisis was caused by a combination of poor hydrology
affecting the impounding of Tekeze hydro plant (300 MW) and delays in the
commissioning of Gibe II (420 MW) and Beles (460 MW) which created a supply deficit,
preventing EEPCo from meeting growing electricity demand. In response to the power
shortage, the government decided to impose a moratorium on residential connections to
ease the supply crisis, thus significantly slowing the pace of electrification.

23.     As the new hydropower plants started to generate electricity, the GoE lifted the
moratorium on new connections towards the end of 2010. EEPCo then started to actively
work on reducing the large backlog of about 450-500,000 connections accumulated over
a two-year period. During the first six months of 2011, priority was given to connecting
the significant number of customers that had paid the connection charge in full. Intensive
dialogue was conducted by the Bank with EEPCo to resume the GPOBA grant
implementation. Starting in June 2011, EEPCo began making connections and, in
parallel, carried out an active public awareness campaign on the connection charge
financing scheme for poor communities through its regional offices, in cooperation with
the local administration.

24.     The project was due to close on December 31, 2011. However, the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development (MoFED) requested the Bank to extend the
project’s closing date to June 30, 2013. The Bank agreed to extend the closing date and
took the opportunity of the restructuring to modify the subsidy disbursement schedule
ratio to 80:20, in an effort to incentivize EEPCo to expedite connections to the poorest
benefitting from the GPOBA program. The project restructuring was approved by the
Bank in December 2011.

25.    In early 2012, the GoE instructed EEPCo to use local materials for its projects to
support the development of local industries. It required that EEPCo procure electric
meters from a recently established public enterprise, Metals and Engineering Corporation
(MetEC); however, MetEC failed to begin production of meters. New customer

                                            7
connections under all access programs, including GPOBA, were stopped in April 2012
when EEPCo ran out of meters. A large procurement package of meters to be financed by
EAREP I was about to be awarded but was cancelled by EEPCo, in light of the new
domestic industry policy. This aggravated the shortage of meters for all electrification
projects. The Bank strongly encouraged EEPCo to continue procuring meters from
external sources for the access programs, including the GPOBA.

26.     During the mid-term review for the project, conducted in April 2012, the mission
identified measures for accelerating the pace of electrification and disbursement under
GPOBA. These included ensuring the procurement of meters for new connections, setting
up a functioning system for the issuance of the three billing cycles, and enhanced
supervision of EEPCo local offices to improve the compliance with the GPOBA program
and technical safety requirements for connections and internal wiring.

27.     As a result of the high level discussion with GoE on the energy portfolio, in
September 2012 EEPCo’s Board decided to allow the procurement of meters from
various domestic sources. EEPCo concluded the technical test of meters in January 2013.
Over 2011-2012 period, EEPCo connected about 21,000 poor households under GPOBA.
With the supply of meters secured, implementation of GPOBA resumed in February 2013
and EEPCo made 22,000 connections during the last 4 months of the project, and
accounted for a total number of 43,000 connections by the time of the Grant’s closing
date in June 2013.

28.     In spite of the implementation difficulties resulting from government policies that
affected all access programs, it is notable that the GPOBA grant accounted for about 75
percent of total connections in the country over the implementation period June 2011-
June 2013. The table below reflects the number of connections eligible for support under
the GPOBA program compared to the total number the connections completed by EEPCo
over the same period.

                      Number of connections by EEPCo per fiscal year6

          Indicator                               FY 2011    FY 2012    FY 2013

          Number of hhs connected                   10,814     21,560      24,790

          Number of hhs connected that were          7,079     14,135      21,790
          eligible for support from GPOBA

29.     However, disbursements of the grant remained low due to: (i) technical and safety
problems in the connection practices, (ii) insufficient communication on GPOBA
program requirements with EEPCo’s local offices and communities (in particular, the
distribution of free CFLs), (iii) logistical challenges in dispatching the materials to the
field, and (iv) ensuring timely collection of bills. The long periods of inactivity


6
    July-June.

                                              8
throughout the project implementation period did not provide EEPCo with sufficient
opportunity to address system glitches.

30.     Due to technical and safety issues, compliance with the first verification condition
(satisfactory installment of metered connections) was about 58 percent. Disbursements of
OBA subsidies were not approved for connections that did not comply with safety
standards, which is one of the factors accounting for the low disbursement rate of the
GPOBA grant. The IVA reported technical connection issues that raise safety concerns,
which were confirmed by the Bank’s technical missions (see photos below)7. The safety
issues observed were not project-specific. GPOBA simply brought to light existing
problems. Although outside the scope of the GPOBA grant, it was also noted that internal
wiring8 was in poor condition. Insufficient local capacity limited the electricity benefits
of the households. The Bank provided a set of recommendations to EEPCo to improve
connection practices and internal wiring, fostered by capacity building for local EEPCo
offices and technicians. EEPCo reported that training sessions were organized for local
offices and private contractors to ensure proper connection practices. However,
significant improvements could not be observed over the short remaining implementation
period.




7
  A Bank technical mission noted that there were two sets of twisted wire connections, one between the
overhead service wires and the twin double insulated cable leading to the meter and the other between the
outgoing cable from the meter and the consumer’s load wire. Further, the twisted connections have been
wrapped with pieces of cloth. The connection of the service wires in particular is dangerous as this
connection is very close to the metallic roofs used in most households and it is quite possible that the metal
roof could become energized with the movement of the loose wires.
8
  Internal wiring is the responsibility of households (hhs) and its cost was not covered under the project.
Most utilities are reluctant to go beyond the meter for legal reasons. EEPCo does not install internal wiring
but has responsibility to verify the internal wiring before providing a connection. The project recognized
this as a risk at the design stage. As stated in the GPOBA commitment paper, the purpose of the Grant was
to assess the impact of the cost of internal wiring on the poorest in the target market in order to benefit
future GPOBA interventions.

                                                      9
Connections under GPOBA (September 2012)


31.      The distribution rate of the CFLs was low (7 percent) due to insufficient
communication of GPOBA program requirements and lack of timely delivery of the
CFLs to EEPCo’s local offices given logistic challenges and limited storage capacity in
remote areas. However, in its completion report, EEPCo claimed that it had distributed a
large number of CFL recently to connected households (see Section 5.2 of Annex 6).
There were some challenges experienced with dispatching construction materials to the
field. Some deficiencies were also reported with regard to the documentation of three
billing cycles that reflect metered consumption and payment of outstanding debts with
the utility for the connection charge. Delays in setting up the billing reporting’s electronic
system by EEPCo’s contractor and complicated logistics to collect bills from isolated,
rural areas made the verification process more difficult. However, the incidence of
issuance of the bills (not necessarily on a monthly basis) is relatively high (90 percent).
Again, the results of EEPCo’s efforts to address these challenges could not bear fruit
during the short, remaining implementation period.

2.3.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.     The grant indicators selected were appropriate to measure progress towards the
PDO. The IVA was hired by the Bank to ensure the independence of the verification
process since the recipient of GPOBA grant, EEPCo, was also the implementing agency.
EEPCo was reimbursed the OBA subsidy based on the output verification reports
prepared by the IVA. The IVA verified and certified that the following physical outputs
were achieved: i) electricity connections have been carried out by EEPCo to new
households, which have received a 5-year loan and two free CFLs each; and ii) connected
households have been invoiced by EEPCo and received payments due, for three monthly
cycles.

33.    The IVA carried out on-site random physical verifications for a sample of


                                             10
connections to certify that the connections were properly installed and functioning
according to the applicable regulation/required standards stated in the Operational
Manual. It also proceeded with the desk verification of the associated billing records
issued by EEPCo. The UEAP cooperated closely with the IVA on the verification
process. However, the unit in charge of the coordination of the GPOBA grant
implementation - the UEAP- was not the entity responsible for billing, which was under
the responsibility of the Sales Department. This led to delays in providing the
documentation to the IVA.

34.     The performance of the IVA was satisfactory. The output verification reports
analyzed technical and safety issues in detail, the findings were brought into the sector
dialogue between the Bank and the client. After the first verification, the list of technical
criteria for acceptability of connections (based on EEPCo’s technical standards) was
detailed to facilitate subsequent verifications.

35.    IDA also undertook bi-annual supervision missions and a mid-term review.
Moreover, the supervision missions for IDA financed access programs also followed up
on issues affecting the GPOBA grant.

2.4.   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

36.     Under the parent project to the GPOBA Grant, EAREP II, an Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) was prepared by the implementing agency
(which also managed GPOBA funds). Disbursements of OBA subsidies were not
approved for connections that did not comply with safety standards, which is one of the
factors accounting for the low disbursement rate of the GPOBA grant. The quality of the
materials was not an issue; they were procured under EAREP II. As stated above, the
other main safety issues with the connections were linked to using the correct insulation
for twisted connections to avoid any contact with metallic roofs and any risk to persons.

Financial Management and Disbursement

37.     The disbursement method was direct payment. EEPCo was reimbursed the OBA
subsidy based on verification by IVA of the grant’s outputs. The number of connections
lagged behind schedule due to implementation delays, and therefore, the disbursement
ratio remained low (US$450,000). Since most of the connections took place in the last
months of grant implementation, a two-month extension of the typical disbursement
grace period was granted. However, due to the restructuring of energy sector in early
December 2013, EEPCo’s payment requests totaling US$318,171 (or approximately 4
percent of the Grant) were never submitted to the Bank as the EEPCo signatories were no
longer valid.




                                             11
Procurement

38.     A Procurement Assessment was carried out for EEPCo as part of the Bank’s
processing of the EAREP I and II projects, and the utility was found to have adequate
capacity to carry out the related activities including, extending the distribution network,
providing two CFL bulbs per consumer, and providing connections to thousands of
customers. The GPOBA Grant Agreement stipulated that the established commercial
practices of EEPCo were found acceptable to the Bank for goods procured by the
Recipient. With respect to consumer connections, material would be obtained both
internationally and locally and the erection work was to be done using both force-account
and local sub-contracting.

39.     Significant procurement delays were experienced under all IDA funded access
projects, and impacted the GPOBA project since materials for connections, meters and
CFLs were procured under those projects. This was a systemic issue and the Bank
management took it up with the GoE. The Bank was successful in convincing the
government to take remedial actions by end of 2012.

2.5.   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.      Despite many setbacks and delays experienced, the GoE seems committed to
electrification of poor households in rural areas, as evidenced by the fact that connections
under the GPOBA program accounted for 75 percent of total connections in the country
over June 2011-2013. However, the lifeline tariff paid by poor households electrified
under the GPOBA scheme did not cover operating costs at appraisal and the Ethiopian
Birr has since experienced significant depreciation further widening the gap between
tariffs and costs. Therefore, a move toward more cost-reflective tariffs is essential for the
sustainability of rural electrification programs.

41.     Through this grant, EEPCo gained valuable experience in how to address the
affordability of connection fees in poor rural areas, improve technical and safety of
connections and outreach to poor rural communities. Several donors are examining ways
to mainstream results based financing in energy operations, for example Norway under
its Energy Plus Initiative, and can usefully learn from the design and implementation of
the GPOBA grant.




                                             12
3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High

42.     The project is assessed as highly relevant to the development priorities of the GoE
both at outset and completion of the project. The GoE’s Energy Sector Strategy envisages
an ambitious expansion of grid and off-grid connectivity to 75 percent of towns and
villages, doubling the number of consumers connected to the grid to 4 million, and
attaining a power-generating capacity of 8,000 MW by 2015. The government plans on
expanding grid intensification programs as well as increasing the adoption of renewable
energy and energy efficiency products and services in areas, especially where the grid is
not present today, and also to provide modern energy services to households in grid
connected areas unable to afford grid connection. The Bank supports the achievement of
these objectives through the implementation of the Ethiopia Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) of August 2012.

43.     The design of the GPOBA grant was also highly relevant to the grant’s stated
objectives as it addressed one of the key barriers to access in the country – the inability of
the poor to afford the one-time connection charge. As the implementation showed, the
grant was well received by the rural communities that enrolled in high numbers (about
80,000 households) in the connection fee financing program. However, due to the power
generation constraints, insufficient stock of meters, and limited capacity of the utility to
pursue its ambitious access plans, all access programs, including the GPOBA grant,
lagged behind their final targets. It should be noted that even in this challenging context
for expanding access in the country, the grant provided incentives to EEPCo to maintain
the pro-poor access focus in its rural electrification activities.

3.2.   Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Unsatisfactory

44.     The PDO was not met. Although the connections eligible to benefit from GPOBA
grant account for 75 percent of total connections in the country over 2011-2013, only 19
percent- or 43,004 of the targeted 228,571 households- were connected to the grid,
despite an extension of the project closing date as well as changes in the ratio of the
subsidy payments made during the project restructuring. An additional number of
households (about 33 percent) benefited from indirect connections. Only 7 percent CFLs
(of the planned 457,142) were distributed. The ICR assessment considers these
shortcomings as major so achievement of the PDO is therefore rated as Unsatisfactory.
During project implementation, the task team had a more favorable rating, expecting that
the late commitment of EEPCo to speed up connections and improve the quality of
connections would materialize.




                                             13
3.3.   Efficiency

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

45.     A number of 43,004 connections have been completed under the GPOBA grant.
EEPCo received about 30 percent of expected subsidy mainly due to the undisbursed
about for the last verifications (as explained in the disbursement section) and partial
compliance with grant disbursement conditions. An estimated number of about 14,331
indirect hook-ups have been observed by the IVA during the physical verification of
connections. All of these indirect hook-ups were found to be correctly connected after the
energy meter, so that the energy meter measures the electricity consumption of the
indirectly connected hhs as well as the directly connected hhs. However, the number of
distributed 32,176 CFLs (representing 7 percent of the original target) was significantly
lower than the estimate at project design (457,142 CFLs).

46.     The economic benefits of the grant at the time of the ICR are high, mainly due to
the significant number of indirect connections and increased demand. The monthly
consumption per hh at preparation was 15 kWh compared to an average of 25 kWh
monthly consumption reported by the IVA in the output verification reports and the
impact baseline assessment. The primary benefit at the outset is lighting; in time, other
uses (such as mobile phones, radio, TV etc.) increase in the newly connected households.
At preparation, the willingness to pay of connected household was estimated at
US$0.17/kWh. The same assumption was used for this retrospective analysis. Based on
these assumptions, the ICR Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is 49 percent
compared to 23 percent at preparation stage. The analysis does not include any energy
efficiency benefits since the number of distributed CFLs has been low overall.

47.      Compared to the estimates at grant preparation, the financial analysis at the ICR
shows a negative Net Present Value (NPV) since the cost of supply for rural
electrification is much higher than the revenues obtained by the utility. The GPOBA
grant slightly improved the results but the NPV still remains negative. The OBA subsidy
disbursement was low and the subsidy per connection of US$35 is among the lowest in
the GPOBA portfolio; the subsidy does not cover the capital cost of connection: it only
covers the interest rate of the loans provided by EEPCo to households and two CFLs per
connection. In any case, electricity tariffs for poor households are much lower than the
incremental supply costs for the utility. For the purpose of this ICR, the incremental cost
of supply per kWh to the end user is estimated around US$0.089/kWh (compared to
US$0.046/kWh at appraisal) based on the assumptions used for the Ethiopia Electricity
Network and Reinforcement Project (ENREP) project (US$0.06/kWh for incremental
generation) plus distribution losses (15 percent) and the customer service costs. A
significant depreciation of the Ethiopian Birr (8.89 Birr = 1 US$ at appraisal) over the
project implementation period contributed further to the gap between tariffs and costs.
The average exchange rate used for this ICR is 19 Birr = US$1.

48.     Although the financial impact of the GPOBA grant was low, it provided
incentives to EEPCo to keep the pro-poor focus in the access expansion programs. More
than 58,000 poor households benefited from electricity service under this program,

                                            14
representing a population of 250,000 to 300,000. The detailed economic and financial
analysis is presented in Annex 3.

3.4.   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

49.     The objective and design of the grant were highly relevant in that they directly
addressed an important access barrier to grid supplied electricity for poor households.
However, other barriers, which became evident during implementation, were not
anticipated during preparation. The government decisions on moratorium on connections
and sole source procurement of meters slowed down grant implementation and impeded
the achievement of the project development objective. The EEPCo’s limited capacity to
ensure the safety of connections and the low distribution of CFLs as well as the delays in
providing documentation to the IVA to verify billing, led to the OBA subsidy being paid
on only 30 percent of connections, ultimately resulting in low disbursements. While the
economic benefits of the grant remain high, very low tariff levels negatively influenced
the results of the financial analysis, which was further affected by a significant
depreciation of local currency. Based on these considerations, the overall outcome rating
is Unsatisfactory.

3.5.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

50.    The preliminary results from the socio-economic assessment (which included
gender analysis) undertaken by IVA suggest that the living and working condition of the
hhs have generally improved since they were electrified. The following table gives an
overview of this assessment of the hhs in further detail.




                                           15
 HH benefits that materialised after being grid-connected (only for electrified and
                                   GPOBA HH)
 Being connected to
 the grid has caused strongly                     no                  strongly
                                      agree               disagree
 benefits in terms of      agree                opinion               disagree
 ….
        … better lighting         56.4%    40.8%       0%           2.8%        0%
  … better income situation       15.6%    42.5%      28.8%        12.3%       0.9%
         … better health          38.7%    58.5%      0.9%          1.9%        0%
  … less energy expenditures      27.6%    55.2%      15.2%         1.4%       0.5%
       … better working
                                  21.8%    45.0%      20.9%        11.8%       0.5%
            conditions
    … better entertainment        23.3%    31.9%      25.7%        17.1%       1.9%
    … better access to news       27.3%    37.3%      16.7%        16.7%       1.9%
  ... better socializing of the
                                  39.6%    57.1%       2.8%         0%         0.5%
               HH
        … better security         37.5%    57.7%       2.9%        1.9%         0%
 Source: Baselines of the socio-economic assessment, December 2013

51.     Households reported that access to electricity generally fulfilled their expectations
regarding better lighting conditions, allowed mobile phones to be charged at home
without any cost and time to travel to other places, facilitated better access to information
and entertainment (radio, TV), and by replacing kerosene lamps with electric lamps,
helped households improve the general well-being of family members, particularly the
health of their children. Some income generating activities such as electric grinding mills,
metal workshops, injera bakeries, and trade opportunities etc. have begun to develop in
villages. However, frequent power outages still limit the productive uses of electricity.

52.     Gender Aspects. Rural electrification benefits all residents but benefits women in
particular. Reduction in the extensive time and effort spent gathering woodfuels,
undertaken mainly by women; allow them to devote more time to educational, productive
and recreational activities and/or for doing other household chores. The IVA assessment
showed that women found access to electricity improved conditions for household work
by allowing electric refrigeration, electric injera stoves, and lighting. Improved studying
for children (due to better lighting and reduced smoke) was also highlighted as a benefit.
Some women also started to engage in handcrafting activities during night hours and this
generated income for households. Preliminary results of the gender focus group are
presented in Annex 5.

(b)   Institutional Change/Strengthening

53.    The Project helped raise awareness on the quality of electricity connections and
the problems with the billing system in EEPCo. The technical issues presented in the
output verification reports submitted by IVA were brought up in the sector dialogue
between the Bank and EEPCo. EEPCo subsequently held meetings with its local offices
to improve communication and compliance with GPOBA program requirements.
However, the limited remaining timeframe for implementation of the grant did not allow

                                             16
for observation of any significant improvements.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

54.     The socio-economic assessment showed that additional hhs gained access to grid
electricity under the GPOBA program by means of indirect hook-ups to the grid, via
neighboring GPOBA grid-connected hhs. These were mainly rural, non-concrete hhs that
had not been connected by EEPCo for safety reasons. Payment for these indirect hook-
ups is done based on the number of bulbs used (10 Ethiopian Birr per bulb per month)9.
The Bank recommended that EEPCo regularize the indirect hook-ups and ensure safety
measures, for eg. through the use of ready boards, since most of these connections refer
to non-concrete rural households.

3.6.   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey

55.     The baseline for the socio-economic assessment emphasized that the GPOBA
grant was well received by local communities in rural areas in Ethiopia, particularly since
the low down payment enabled less-affluent households to be connected to the grid.
Despite the benefits brought about by the electricity service discussed in Section 3.5, the
report also mentions some frustrations with regard to EEPCo’s delays in implementing
the access programs, including the GPOBA, due to its limited capacity, quality of service,
and delays in the billing process.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

56.     This ICR rates risks to the sustainability of the development outcomes as High
due to lack of tariff reform that threatens the financial sustainability of the sector and the
policy decisions taken by the government during the implementation period, which
negatively influenced the momentum for access. EEPCo went ahead with the
procurement of meters from an alternative supplier which was unable to deliver the
needed quantity of meters. In addition, the precarious financial situation of EEPCo raises
significant concerns for future access plans in rural areas and their sustainability.
Moreover, EEPCo will need to mainstream the recommendations from the
implementation of the GPOBA grant into its own ambitious access programs to ensure
safe installation of connections.




9
 Electricity consumption of hhs with indirect hook-ups is automatically metered by the directly connected
hhs via their installed meter (provided the indirect hook-ups is correctly linked up after the meter).




                                                   17
5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.   Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

57.     Bank performance during preparation is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
team designed a scheme that, if fully implemented would have benefited an important
segment of the poorest population in Ethiopia. The grant design addressed one of the key
barriers to access for poor population – high connection charges. It was meant to bring
significant efficiency by reimbursing a relatively small subsidy per connection compared
to other GPOBA funded projects while making the connection charge affordable to the
poor. The design also included an energy efficiency component to further ease the
financial burden on poor customers for consumption. The project was designed to rely on
the existing institutional and implementation arrangements.

58.     However, in retrospect, the assessment of risk was underestimated. A more
conservative assessment of sector concerns such as limited power supply and the capacity
of the utility to pursue its ambitious access programs would have been useful to anticipate
the GPOBA grant’s implementation challenges and to set more realistically the final
connection target. Despite the Bank’s heavy engagement and support to the
Government’s access program it seems that the utility’s capacity constraints were not
evident to the team at the design stage. During the measurement/verification of output,
where the risk materialized, there is evidence, given the good collaboration between the
IVA and EEPCo and EEPCo’s responsiveness in addressing implementation challenges
that arose, that the risk could have been mitigated over a longer period. The government’s
policy decisions, namely, the 2 year moratorium on connections and the mandatory sole
sourcing of meters, which could not have been foreseen at project design, ultimately
crippled implementation. Moreover, the power supply deficit that precipitated the first
decision was very difficult to predict in light of the progress of the government’s ongoing
generation projects at that time. The confluence of those factors set the project on an
unsteady footing from which it was difficult to recover.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.      The team conducted bi-annual supervision missions and a mid-term review and
actively tried to address the different political, technical and institutional difficulties
hindering grant implementation. When the moratorium on rural access connections was
finally lifted, the Bank initiated a high level dialogue with the GoE in which it stressed
the urgency of including poor households in the access plans of the utility in order to
create economic and social development opportunities in rural areas. The Bank’s
supervision team was proactive in trying to resolve implementation issues, taking the
initiative to make a change to the subsidy scheme to encourage more connections during

                                            18
the restructuring of December 2011 and later advocating for change in the GoE’s
decision on the sole source procurement of meters.

60.      The Bank provided guidance to EEPCo in addressing concerns raised by the IVA
in its reports regarding the technical and safety issues as well as billing documentation.
Technical field trips also took place to assess these connection and internal wiring
concerns. Although the team encouraged EEPCo to use the technical assistance
components of ongoing IDA projects to obtain external support and address its capacity
constraints, EEPCo was reluctant to do so and had the view that its staff and local
contractors already engaged were sufficient.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

61.     Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. While the team
designed an innovative approach to increase electricity access and worked closely with
client counterparts during project preparation, it failed to anticipate all the barriers to
expanding household access. It also did not assess adequately the capacity needs this
approach required for sound implementation, in particular the shortcomings of the main
implementing agency, EEPCo. Finally, it underestimated the extent of government
commitment to the rural expansion program. These shortcomings had a determining
impact on the project outcome despite efforts during implementation to address them.
The end result was an operation of high relevance to the government’s own poverty
alleviation program but which was unable to have much significant impact in “increasing
access to electricity in rural towns and villages with grid access” by project closing,
which was its main development objective.

5.2.   Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

62.     At the outset, the GoE strongly supported projects whose primary goal was to
increase access. However, the demand-supply crisis for electricity shifted the GoE’s
focus to power generation. The moratorium on new connections adopted by the GoE
stopped all access programs, especially the GPOBA grant, which was particularly
affected since the disbursements were based on verified connections. Moreover, when the
moratorium was lifted, the GoE enforced a policy of supporting domestic industries and
advised EEPCo to procure meters from the newly established public enterprise, MetEC.
Despite GoE’s assurances, MetEC was unable to manufacture meters for EEPCo within
the promised deadline. As a result, EEPCo was unable to connect the targeted number of
customers under the GPOBA grant. Discussions between the GoE and the Bank led to the
GoE agreeing to allow EEPCo to procure meters from other local manufacturers. As a
result, EEPCo resumed grant implementation in February 2013 and proceeded with
connections at a fast pace but this was four months before the project closed. Overall, the

                                            19
government commitment to the objectives of this GPOBA Grant was weak.

(b)       Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

63.     Notwithstanding the delays resulting from the procurement of meters, the EEPCo
had a pro-poor access focus over the period 2011-2013 and gave priority to the
implementation of the GPOBA grant that accounted for 75 percent of total connections in
the country. However, although EEPCo showed commitment to the implementation of
the GPOBA grant, the output verification reports signaled deficiencies in connection and
internal wiring practices that raised safety concerns, as well as insufficient
communication with local offices on GPOBA program requirements. Following the Bank
and IVA recommendations, the UEAP tried to improve the technical deficiencies related
to the connections by providing training to EEPCo´s regional offices in charge of
supervising the connections, but deficiencies in the connections were consistently
highlighted in the three IVA verification reports. Overall, the implementation
performance of EEPCo was weak, both in terms of technical capacity as well as
efficiency.

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

64.     Overall, it is clear that the GPOBA grant suffered from weak government
commitment to the project design for expanding rural access. In addition, the main
implementing agency, EEPCo, had technical and managerial shortcomings as well as
limited capacity in its local offices, which severely impeded implementation. As a result,
the rating for overall Borrower Performance is Unsatisfactory.

6.        Lessons Learned

65.       The following lessons learned can be highlighted:

         Outsourcing connections requires the establishment/enforcement of effective
          quality control mechanisms. The GPOBA grant set a very ambitious timeframe
          aimed at connecting more than 228.000 connections in a three year period
          (approximately 75,000 households per year) while at the same time the utility was
          implementing other large energy sector projects and addressing other sector
          priorities. This led to hiring external resources to install an important number of
          new connections, impacting the quality and safety of the connections.
         A proper assessment of utility's practice and technical and safety standards of
          connections is needed to avoid a high rate of connection rectification after
          verification. Quality requirements for the connections under the Grant were based
          on EEPCo’s technical standards. But it appears in practice during implementation
          that these could not be met easily by EEPCo teams and by its contractors’ usual
          practices. This led to further slowdown of disbursements on verified connections

                                              20
   Risk of a negative impact of supporting a major connection program on the
    electricity supply-demand balance should be carefully assessed. The moratorium
    decision in Ethiopia is quite uncommon, however it is foreseeable that the utility
    could have opted to slow down connection in order to manage both generation
    and network constraints and this would also have had a negative impact on
    results.
   In a low capacity environment, even when relying on an existing institution, it is
    important to assess the institution’s ability to coordinate internally to assure
    successful implementation of the proposed activity. An extensive analysis of the
    internal implementation focused on the coordination between the project unit and
    the local distribution/sales offices was needed. Identifying this weakness early
    would have permitted the Bank and the implementing agency to take remedial
    actions in a timely manner with proper reporting.
   Since poor rural hhs targeted by GPOBA grants do not provide a significant
    revenue stream to the service provider, analyzing the government pro-poor access
    policy and crafting incentives for utilities to reach low income hhs is crucial in
    project design. When the moratorium was lifted, EEPCo restarted connecting
    customers who had paid the connection fee in full upfront. The subsidy covered
    the cost of financing the loan scheme and the two CFLs but did not provide
    sufficient incentive to overcome the administrative burden and cost of processing
    and monitoring new connections under the GPOBA. Further, the fact that these
    customers would yield lower revenues for EEPCo through the life line tariff
    provided even greater motivation to connect the customers who paid upfront and
    higher tariffs.
   All major barriers to access should be addressed by OBA financing. The GPOBA
    grant in Ethiopia did not include a subsidy for the internal wiring of the
    households since this was considered to be the households’ responsibility. In
    addition to the average US$75 connection cost paid to EEPCo, new customers
    also had to invest money in wiring their houses, which amounted to US$20-30.
    This impacted the ‘affordability’ of access for the poor as well as the quality of
    the internal wiring. Financial and institutional arrangements to cover internal
    wiring (which can be itself a barrier to access) should be considered for future
    electricity access projects under the OBA model.
   OBA innovative projects may require flexibility in order to make adjustments to
    the design during implementation to achieve the PDO in a changing sector or
    country specific environment. High inflation in Ethiopia materially impacted the
    cost of working capital to be incurred upfront by EEPCo in order to continue with
    connections. Moreover, sector challenges delayed grant implementation.
    Therefore, it is advisable to have some flexibility to accommodate non-
    controllable factors and revisit the need for modification of incentives (eg.
    Subsidy amount, subsidy disbursement schedule) accordingly. The shift from
    50/50 to 80/20 approved at restructuring did help to provide EEPCo incentives to
    accelerate the connection pace under GPOBA grant.




                                        21
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a)   Grantee/Implementing agencies

66.    Draft copies of this ICR were discussed and comments from the
Borrower/Implementing Agency were included in this Report. The Borrower’s Final
Report has been included at Annex 6.

(b)   Co-financiers/Donors

67.    All co-financing from GPOBA was channeled through the Bank project.

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders

      N/A




                                        22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                     Percentage of
          Components          Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                      Appraisal
                                 millions)         millions)
 Connection of customers in
tandem with 5 year loans and          8.00              0.45              6%
distribution of CLFs


        Total Baseline Cost            8.00            0.45               6%
         Total Project Costs           8.00            0.45               6%
  Total Financing Required             8.00            0.45               6%


(b)    Financing
                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                      Percentage
                                Type of Co-   Estimate    Estimate
       Source of Funds                                                    of
                                 financing     (USD        (USD
                                                                      Appraisal
                                              millions)   millions)
 Trust Funds                                    0.00        0.00
Global Partnership on Output-
                                                8.00          0.45             6%
based Aid




                                        23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The GPOBA targets were not achieved. Only 6 percent of the grant was disbursed. Out of
the 228,571 poor households that were targeted to receive a 5 year loan from EEPCo to
facilitate grid connections in rural areas and the distribution target of 457,142 compact
fluorescent energy efficient lamps (CFLs), only 43,004 received the loan and only 32,176
CFL´s were distributed representing 7 percent of the original target.

The performance of the IVA was satisfactory. The output verification reports analyzed
technical and safety issues in detail, which were brought into the sector dialogue of the
Bank with the client.




                                           24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      Some 43,000 connections have been completed under the GPOBA grant, out of
which about 30 percent have been validated to receive the OBA subsidy for compliance
with the two disbursement conditions. An estimated 14,331 indirect hook-ups were
observed by the IVA during the physical verification of connections. All these indirect
hook-ups were found to be correctly connected after the energy meter, so that the energy
meter measures the electricity consumption of the indirectly connected hhs as well as the
directly connected hhs. The number of distributed 32,176 CFLs (i.e. 7 percent of the
original target) is significantly lower than the estimate at project design (457,142 CFLs).

2.      The economic benefits of the grant at ICR are very high mainly due to the
significant number of indirect connections and the estimated increase in demand (See
Table 1 below for the detailed EIRR analysis). The monthly consumption per hh at
preparation was 15 kWh, compared to an average of 25 kWh monthly consumption
reported by the IVA in the output verification reports and the impact baseline assessment.
The primary benefit at the outset is lighting; with time, other uses (such as mobile
phones, radio, TV etc.) increased in the newly connected households. At preparation, the
willingness to pay of connected households was estimated at US$0.017/kWh. The same
assumption was used for this retrospective analysis. Based on these assumptions, the ICR
EIRR is 39 percent compared to 23 percent at the preparation stage.

3.      Compared to the estimates at grant preparation, the financial analysis at ICR
shows a negative NPV since the cost of supply for rural electrification is much higher
than the revenues obtained by the utility (See Table 2 below for details on the FIRR
analysis). The GPOBA grant did not have a significant impact on the results of the
financial analysis since the subsidy disbursement was low. In any case, regardless of the
subsidization of the initial connection costs, electricity tariffs for poor households were
much lower than incremental supply costs for the utility. For the purpose of this ICR, the
incremental cost of supply per kWh at end user is estimated around US$0.101/kWh
(compared to US$0.046/kWh at appraisal) based on the assumptions used for the ENREP
project (US$0.06/kWh for incremental generation) plus distribution losses (15 percent)
and the customer service costs. A significant depreciation of the Ethiopian Birr (ETB8.89
= US$1 at appraisal) is also noted, which contributed further to the gap between tariffs
and costs. The average exchange rate used for this ICR is ETB19 = US$1.

4.      Although the financial impact of the GPOBA grant was low, it provided political
incentives to EEPCo to keep the pro-poor focus in the access expansion programs. A total
estimate of 57,331 poor households benefited from electricity service under this program.




                                            25
Table 1: EIRR Assumptions and Results




                 26
Table 2: FIRR Assumptions and Results




                 27
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)   Task Team members
            Names                         Title                Unit
Lending / Grant Preparation
Luiz Maurer               TTL                                 AFTEG
                          Program Manager/Transaction
Carmen Nonay                                                  GPOBA
                          Advisor
Jonathan Pavluk           Senior Counsel                      LEGAF
Nina Chee                 Senior Environmental Specialist     AFTSD
Luis Schwarz              Financial Management Specialist     LOAFC
Chrisantha Ratnayake      Procurement Specialist              AFTEG
Helena Kofi               Procurement Analyst                 AFTEG
Janine A. Speakman        Operations Analyst                  AFTEG
Tigest Tirfe              Program Assistant                   AFTEG
Supervision/ICR
Luiz Maurer               TTL                                 AFTG1
Raluca Golumbeanu         TTL                                 GPOBA
Issa Diaw                 TTL                                 AFTG1
Yusuf Ali                   Energy Consultant                 AFTG1
Chrisantha Ratnayake        Energy Consultant                 AFTG1
Tafesse Freminatos Abrham   Consultant                        AFTME
Raihan Elahi                Senior Energy Specialist          AFTG1
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus       Lead Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Carmen Nonay                Program Manager                   GPOBA
Jonathan Pavluk             Senior Counsel                    LEGAF
                            Senior Social Development
Yasmin Tayyab                                                 AFTSD
                            Specialist
Lillian Brenda Namutebi     Financial Management Specialist   AFTME
George Ferreira Da Silva    Financial Analyst                 AFTG1
Azeb Afework                Team Assistant                    AFCE3
Yeshi Gizaw                 Program Assistant                 AFCE3
Lemlem Workalemahu          Program Assistant                 AFCE3
Janine A. Speakman          Operations Analyst                AFTG1
Alexandra Planas            Energy Consultant                 AFTG1
Fabrice Bertholet           Senior Financial Analyst          AFTG2
Chita Oje                   Program Assistant                 AFTG1
                            Senior Financial Management
Eshetu Yimer                                                  AFTME
                            Specialist




                                           28
(b)   Staff Time and Cost

                                     Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
Stage of project cycle           No. of staff weeks       US$ thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY 07                                             1.95                          3.02
FY 08                                             3.98                         19.42
FY 09                                            10.17                         55.17
FY 10                                             3.41                         20.62
FY 11                                             0.00                          0.00
FY 12                                             1.68                         37.90
                         Total                   21.19                        136.13
Supervision/ICR
FY 09                                             1.03                          5.03
FY 10                                             4.98                         27.07
FY 11                                             4.79                         34.20
FY 12                                             9.47                        125.31
FY 13                                             6.73                         28.79
FY 14                                             4.63                         22.42
                         Total                   31.63                        242.82




                                         29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Socio-economic impact survey - Preliminary results of the gender focus group

1.      During the second round of the HH Baseline Surveys (BLS) which took place in
 rd
3 quarter, 395 households were interviewed. The BLS was conducted in a total of 13
villages/towns distributed across five EEPCo Districts, five Zones, and three Regions.
(see Table below) Eight villages were located in rural areas and five villages were
classified as urban Kebele. These HHs were selected in such a way that approximately
equal numbers of them were GPOBA HHs, HHs connected to the grid by EEPCo under
programs other than GPOBA, and non-electrified HHs were selected for interviews. This
was done in order to be able to pinpoint specific HH-level impacts from electrification
under the GPOBA program, through comparison with impacts experienced (or not) by
HHs in the other two categories. Additionally, two none electrified villages were selected
as control villages: Anango Kali from Oromia Region, and Daane village from Tigray
Region.

Sampled towns/villages and number of sampled HHs for Task 2&3 (Part 2) surveys
                                                                        No. of surveyed
     Region            Zone         EEPCo District    Town/Village
                                                                              HH
                                             Gimbi     Anango Kali*                   30
     Oromia         West Wollega             Gimbi     Haroji Serdo                   30
                                             Gimbi      Lalisa Yesus                  29
                                                            Subtotal                  89
                    Debub Misrak              Quiha          Daane*                   30
                         Mekelle       Mekelle SC 2     Felege Daero                  32
                    Debub Misrak       Mekelle SC 3          Gamera                   34
     Tigray         North Region       Mekelle SC 3            Quiha                  35
                         Mekelle       Mekelle SC 2          Serawat                  31
                    North Region       Mekelle SC 3           Shebta                  12
                    North Region       Mekelle SC 2            Tekul                  42
                                                             Subtotal                216
                                            Asossa          Amba 2                    28
  Benishangul-                                           Bambasi 46                   31
                          Asossa            Asossa
    Gumuz
                                            Asossa              Ura                   31
                                                            Subtotal                  90
                                                        Grand Total                 395
*none electrified control village

2.     In the analyzed villages/towns expectations of benefits for women and children
from the GPOBA program (or electrification more generally) were very similar, mainly:
    Improved studying for children (due to better lighting and smoke free lighting)
    Facilitation of household work for women (due to lighting and partly to electric
       equipment, which was mentioned in Oromia)



                                             30
3.      Generally, women expect to save kerosene/money as a result of using electricity,
and being able to buy other things from their own income in future. Women also expect
that their workload will be reduced like e.g. in Bambasi 46 and Lalisa Yesus where better
and cheap grinding service as grain milling machine is changed from diesel to electricity
caused not only reduced cost for grinding but also reduced the work load and time
women used to spend in doing this task.

Preliminary results

4.  When asked about what actual benefits had accrued after the introduction of the
GPOBA program, women’s/ village focus groups came up with the following points:

      GPOBA program allows poor HHs to apply for a HH connection and makes it
       affordable because of the loans and the low up-front cost.
      Electrification allows better communication due to mobile usage and easier phone
       charging opportunities. It also allows the villagers an easier access to information
       via TV and other electronic media, and better entertainment opportunities.
      The electrification of the village brought about visible improvements in medical
       care and education situation. This happened, for example, in Bambasi 46
       (Benishangul-Gumuz) where the Health Centre used to diagnose patients in trail
       an error due to the absence of electricity which hindered from using medical
       equipment. Since the electrification of the village the Health Centre started to
       provide better service to the community using laboratory service, sterilizer, and
       refrigerator.
      As a result of the village electrification some economic activities have been
       merged or further been developed as happened, for example, in Quiha, Gamera,
       Shebta, and Tekul (all Tigray) where an electric grain mill now operates. The
       electrification of the village has increased as well the opportunities for
       trade/commercial activities like in Felege Daro (Tigray) where a barbershop has
       opened. New businesses were opened as well in Serawat village (Tigray) (a metal
       work shop with a welding machine, and a commercial Injera bakery), and in
       Haroji Serdo (Oromia) (Barbershop, beauty salon, mobile repair shop, grinding
       mill) as well as in Lalisa Yesus (Oromia) (barbershop, wood work activities).
      Results from the HH BLS show that the supply of electrical equipment/goods is
       generally poor in the villages. Bulbs, especially CFLs, are sold only occasionally
       in the shops. HHs generally find it difficult to locate cables/wires, sockets, fuses,
       mobile charger, divider, adapter, and other electrical equipment for purchase.
       Supply shortages hamper further positive developments, in particular in rural
       areas. In addition to the lack of electrical equipment/goods, lack of technicians in
       the village is also considered as another problem related to utilizing the benefits
       of electricity more effectively.
      Lighting of public places and some of the main streets is beginning to be happen
       but remains a largely unmet need in the surveyed villages.
      Some women are also started to engage in handcrafting activities during night
       hours and this situation generate income for the households.


                                            31
   28.4 percent of the HHs surveyed mentioned they had an idea for the future of
    how they could use electricity to produce goods or services for sale in order to
    generate additional cash income. The following answers were given (ranked by
    the frequency of answers).

       1.   beauty salon/hair dresser
       2.   tea/ coffee house
       3.   milling machine
       4.   opening new shop (e.g. kiosk, restaurant)
       5.   wood work
       6.   metal work
       7.   garage




                                        32
Annex 6. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                     ETHIOPIAN ELECTRIC POWER




                           Electricity Access Rural

                            Expansion Project II

                                 (EAREP II)


                       World Bank Loan No: P 101556




                    Project Completion Report of GPOBA




                                                                 May 2014




                                     33
1. Basic Information
Reporting Period: 31 May 2009 to 30 June 2013
Project name: Electricity Access Rural Expansion Project, Phase II
Borrower: Ethiopian Government
Executive Agency: Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation
Project no: P101556
Credit no: IDA 43440
GOBA Grant: USD 8,000,000
Original Board Grant Approval Date: 11 November 2008
Date of grant effectiveness: 31 May 2009
Original closing date: 31December 2011
Revised closing date: 30 June 2013
2. Project Background
Ethiopia is located in the north eastern part of Africa and is bordered by Sudan to the
west, Kenya to the south, Somalia and Djibouti to the east and Eritrea to the north. It is
one of the largest countries in Africa, covering an area of about 1.21 million sq. km. The
country has a rugged topography with an altitude range of minus 100 meters to plus 4,600
meters above sea level.
The country is well endowed with hydro power potential. According to the current
estimates this potential goes beyond 45,000 MW. The power sector by enlarge was
operated by the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo), which is recently
unbundled in to two different independent entities (i.e. the Ethiopian Electric Power
(EEP) & Ethiopian Electric utility (EEU)).
The Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo) was a sole power utility responsible
for the power generation, transmission, distribution and sales of electrical energy to
consumer all over the country. EEPCo established an internal organization, the Universal
Electricity Access Program (UEAP) office responsible for managing the expansion of the
electric supply in the whole of the country. Within UEAP there is ERAP II project office
which is responsible for the execution of GOBA project which is an integral part of the
Electricity Access Rural Expansion Project II.
The GPOBA grant agreement was signed on October 30, 2008 (became effective on May
31, 2009). The GPOBA Grant implementation was delayed for about two years due to a
major supply crisis that hit Ethiopia from September 2008 until end of 2010. The Grant
was extended to December 31, 2011, in order to allow the disbursement of the US$8.0
million grant with the goal of facilitating grid connections for 228,571 poor households in
rural areas and the distribution of 457,142 compact fluorescent energy efficient lamps
(CFLs). The proposed disbursement schedule of the subsidy was expected to provide
incentives to the utility to proceed with an accelerated pace of electrification under the
GPOBA. The GPOBA Grant was targeting the poor households from rural areas,

                                            34
     primarily those who cannot afford to pay the full connection charge to benefit from
     electricity service.
     3. Objective
     The main objective of the GPOBA project is to increase access to electricity in rural
     towns and villages with grid-access, by assisting EEPCo in its connection fee financing
     program, extending loan tenors of five years to poor household customers. In addition,
     the GPOBA grant finance two energy efficient Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) for
     poor households. Those CFLs delivered as part of the connection package to both ensure
     an affordable bill for households and promote energy efficiency. The increased access to
     electricity will improve the quality of life, enhance educational services, and provide
     income-generating opportunities.
     4. Overview of the Project Components & sites
     The GPOBA Components consists of:-
           i. Subsidy funding:- This fixed subsidy is linked with EEPCo’s performance
              which is divided up between first parts for acceptable household connection
              and providing two CFLs per household free of charge and second part for three
              successful household billing cycles following installation of new household
              connection.
             ii. Output monitoring & evaluation: - An independent verification agency (AVI)
                 hired by the World Bank in order to verify and certify the performance of the
                 project implementing agency (EEPCo) using key projects deliverables as
                 evidence of achievement outputs.
             iii. World Bank supervision: Supervision to be performed by the Bank technical
                  mission over the Grant implementation period
     The project area covered five Regional states which are Oromia, Amhara, Tigray, SNNP
     & Benshangul gumez.

     5. Project Schedule

     The GPOBA grant agreement signed in October 2008, but the start of implementation
     was delayed for about two years due to a major electricity supply crisis that affected
     Ethiopia over 2008 - 2010. The project was restructured in December 2011 to extend the
     closing date to June 30, 2013 and to change the disbursement schedule of the OBA
     subsidy provided to the EEPCo. The revised project schedule is shown on the table
     below:

                        2011                              20012                2013

                    I            II         III            IV         V         VI         Total
                                                                                         Connection
                July-Sept      Oct-Dec   Jan-April    May-Aug      Sept-Jan   Feb-June

Planned
                                6,000     30,456          50,000   40,000     51,500      228,571
Connection



                                                     35
6. Project Execution
6.1   Physical work
Based on the grant agreement signed between the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation
(EEPCo) & the World Bank, it was planned reaching out about 1,142,855 people
corresponding to an average of five family members per household by connecting a total
of 228,571 new and/or regularized rural household connections with direct meters and
distributing 457,142 energy efficient CFLs, representing two units for the each one of the
above households to promote energy conservation and reduce their electricity bill.
In order to achieve this objective, the Universal Electricity Access Program UEAP
established ERAP II Project office, which execute and follow up the day-to-day project
implementation, monitoring and reporting. The targeted areas to be electrified for the
project period for the above household connections encompasses any existing Region or
district already grid-electrified by EEPCo for more than a year or any region or district to
be grid-electrified by EEPCo, one year after the beginning of provision of service. The
project area covered broad poorer geographical areas in five Regional states which are
located in Oromia, Amara, Tigray, and SNNP & Benshangul Gumiz.
The project execution started on June 2011. At the first year of the project execution
period (FY2011) a total number of 7,079 newly households get meter connected, at the
second year (FY2012) a total number of 14,135 and at the third year (FY2013) a total
number of 21,792 newly households get meter connected. Totally 43,004 newly
households get meter connected during the project execution period, which is low
compared to the plan. Lists of newly connected households organized by Regions, zone,
woreda, EEPCo district, and a town/village provided to IVA in hard and soft copy in
time.
Procurement of 4mm2 (7,000 km) & 6mm2 (3,000 km) concentric Cables and 11Watt
(2,700,000) & 15 Watt (1,800,000) Compacted Fluorescent Lamps performed by ERAP
II Project office in accordance to the world Bank Procurement Guidelines and distributed
to EEPCo Regional marketing & sales offices, which were the ones doing the connection
by their district offices..
The World Bank was hired an independent verification agency which carried out on-site
random physical verifications for a sample of connections to certify that the connections
are properly installed and functioning according to the applicable regulation/required
standards stated in the GPOBA Operational Manual agreed by EEPCo & world Bank.
EEPCo Central and Regional offices worked closely with IVA and provide information,
such as geographic information about the location accessibility of EEPCo District Offices
& Electrified villages as required. In addition to that, they also provide any necessary
support for proper accomplishment of the verification process during the project
implementation period.




                                            36
5.2. Project Expenditure & Disbursement

 No                                 Description                                Amount in USD
  1        Total Grant amount                                                         8,000,000.00
  2        Total amount disbursed till closing date                                     450,000.00
           Balance                                                                    7,550,000.00

As it can be seen from the above table, disbursements of the grant till the closing date
June 30, 2013 remained low due to the following reasons:
      i.    Even though UEAP organized training sessions for staffs and technicians in
            district offices & staffs of local contractors (i.e. Internal wiring after Kw/hm is
            responsibility of households) to improve the connection and internal wiring
            practices, significant improvements could not be observed over the short
            remaining implementation period.
    ii.     Even though EEPCo District offices making connections and, in parallel, carried
            out an active public awareness campaign on the connection charge financing
            scheme for poor communities through our regional offices, in cooperation with
            the local administrations, the distribution rate of free CFLs was low. But a large
            number of 2 free CFLs lately distributed to connected households which is not
            included in the verification report. (i.e. After the IVA has submitted.
   iii.     Total payments with an amount of US$318,171 not released by the Bank
            because of EEPCo signatories were no longer valid due to the unbundling of the
            corporation in to two different entities.
7. Challenges encountered during project execution
Various challenges were faced during the project implementation period. Some of them
are listed as follows:-
          Delay in loan effectiveness.
          Supply constraints; especially shortages of meters limited the progress of the
           households meter connection.
          Logistical challenges in dispatching the materials to the field, especially
           distribution of CFL.
          GPOBA Program activities were putting additional pressure on regular EEPCo
           district activities that had already been under stress due to limited resources
           problems.
          During the first six months of 2011, priority was given to connecting the
           significant number of customers that had paid the connection charge in full.
8. Conclusion
Even though disbursement of the grant for the GPOBA project is low, the executed work
is by far better than the disbursement and it practically changes the life of many poor
families (households) living in rural areas of the country. In addition to that EEPCo has


                                               37
learned so many lessons from the implementation of the project which will be used as in
input for execution of projects with similar natures.
9. Recommendations
We recommend that the Bank to consider supporting of local contractors which are
highly participating in the installation work of internal wiring in the case of GPOBA
project and in the area of construction of distribution networks in the case electricity
access program in general. Besides, we think that the Bank shall revise its current
procurement procedures related to National Competitive Bidding in order to fully address
some restrictions related to participation of local manufacturers (i.e. energy meters,
transformers, electric cables, etc) taking in to consideration the current actual
manufacturing capacity of the country.




                                          38
Annex 7. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                      39
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

    ISRs
    Aide Memoires
    Mid-Term Review
    IVA reports
    EARAP 1 ICR
    GPOBA Commitment Paper
    Restructuring Paper
Household Baseline Surveys




                                        40
                  32°E                                                        36°E
                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                              40°E                                  42°E                                    44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                              ERIT REA
                                                                 S U D AN
                                                                                                                                                 Keren                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REP.                         ELECTRICITY ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RURAL EXPANSION




                                                                                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                    d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YEMEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT, PHASE II
                                                                        To                                                                               Adigrat
                           ETHIOPIA                                                               Humera




                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                      Gedaref                                     ek
                                                                                                                     eze            Axum




                                                                                                              T
                14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14°N




                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GPOBA




                                                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                                                    T I G R AY




                                                                                                                                                                   en




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                          Mekele




                                                                                                                                                                       ak
                                                                                                                                  Ras Dashen                                                                                                                                    CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                  Terara (4620 m)
                                                                                      Atb                                                                                                                                                                                       REGION CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                          il
                                                                                            ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                             Gonder




                                                                                                                                                                              De
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RIVERS
                                                                                                             AMHARA                                                A FA R
                                                                                             Lake                                                                                                                                                                               MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                 se
                                                                             Dinder          Tana
                12°N                                                                                                       Debra                                                                                                              12°N                              RAILROADS
                                                                                                                           Tabor             Weldiya




                                                                                                                                                                                    rt
                                                                                             Bahir Dar
                                                                                                                                                                                                           DJIB
                                                                                                                                                                                                           DJIBOUTI                                                             REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                  Asayita                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   ue




                                                                                                              Bl
                                                                                                                        Nile
                                                                                                                                                    Dese
                                                                   Abay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           46°E                           48°E

                                                          BENSHANGUL




                                                                                                                                                                     Awa
                                                                                                              Debre
                                                                                      er



                                                                                                              Markos
                                                                                   ng




                                                           Asosa




                                                                                                                                                                         sh
                                                                                                                               Ethiopian
                                                                                 Ha




                10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10°N
                                                                                                                                Plateau                                             DIRE DAWA
                                                                                                                                                                                            Dire Dawa
                                                                                 Didesa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                               Harer                                 Hargeysa

                                                                     Gimbi                Nekemte          ADDIS ABABA                     ADDIS                                     HARARI          Jijiga
                                                                                                                                           ABABA                     Awash                                                                                                        S OM AL I A
                                                                                                                                                     Nazret                            R
                                               Baro                                                                                                                                                                                                Aware




                                                                                                                                                                                        am
                                                                                                                    Welkite                                                                                          Degeh Bur
                                                                          Gore                                                                           O R O M I YA




                                                                                                                                                                                           is
                                                     Gambela
                8°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Domo                              8°N
                                       GAMBELA
                                                                                                                                                   y
                                                                                                                                         Asela
                                                                                                                                                 e

                                              Ak
                 SO U T H                                                                                                                                abe Shebele
                                                                                                                                             l l



                                                 o                                                Jima                  Hosaina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Oga d e n
                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                 bo




                                                                                                                                          a




                                                                                          Bonga
                 SU DAN                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOMALI
                                                                                                                                         V




                                                                                                                                     Shashemene
                                                                                                                                                                   Goba                                                                                              Warder
                                                                                                           Sodo      Awasa                         Dodola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kebri Dehar
                                                                                                                                   f t




                                                                 SOUTHERN NATIONS,                                   Wendo

                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Imi
                                                                                                                               R i




                                                                   NATIONALITES                                                                                                       ab
                                                                                                                                                                                         e Ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                                            sr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Wa
                6°N
                                                                    AND PEOPLES                                                                                                               o                         be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Shebe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6°N
                                                                                                                           t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                le
                                                                                                                       e a




                       0   50    100   150    200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                               Genale
                                                                                                                   G r




                                                                                                                                                 Negele
                       0        50      100          150 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ferfer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                               Yavello                      Dawa                                                                                                    Mogadishu


                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Odo                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                4°N
                                                                    Lake                                                          Mega                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4°N
FEBRUARY 2014




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 40756
                                                                 Turkana                                                                                                                                                  GSDPM               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IN DIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Map Design Unit     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                 Moyale
                           UGANDA                                                             KENYA                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O CE AN
                  32°E                        34°E                            36°E                                  38°E                                      40°E        Wajir                     42°E                                    44°E                           46°E                           48°E
                                                                                                                                  Marsabit                                                                  Mogadishu
