Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5917 
Operation Name 
Emergency Recovery Development Policy Credit 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P121220 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS 
Implementing Agency 
OVERNMENT OF HONDURAS 
Ministry of Finance 
Av. Cervantes, Barrio el Jazmin 
Edificio SEFIN 
Tegucigalpa 
Honduras 
Tel: (504) 237-4537 
Fax: (504) 237-5033 
rsantos@sefin.gob.hn 
Date PID Prepared 
July 30, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 15, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 28, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Honduran government is facing serious fiscal challenges that are the direct result of historical 
fiscal structural problems, compounded by the global economic shock and the recent political 
standoff.
 
Prior to 2009, Honduras had maintained an overall fiscal deficit not exceeding 2 percent of 
GDP per year, financed by a combination of external and domestic sources. Although the deficits were 
relatively small, the budget had become very rigid, especially due to large increases in the public wage 
bill. By 2009, external budget financing dried up as a result of a lack of progress on key structural 
reforms. This, combined with dwindling tax revenues as a result of the economic contraction, the 
temporary suspension of aid and credits following the political fallout, and the lack of spending 
discipline resulted in the build-up of substantial arrears by the end of 2009, estimated around 5 percent 
of GDP.  Moreover, the political decision to withdraw ALBA in January 2010 curtailed an important 
source of projected financing originating from Venezuela.  
 
In order to avoid a full-blown fiscal crisis, the Lobo administration took a series of decisive 
corrective measures to help stabilize the fiscal situation in the short term and lay the foundation 
for structural reforms in the medium term.
 Fiscal sustainability is expected to improve in 2010 as tax 
revenues recover and public spending is contained as a result of the fiscal reform package adopted by 
the Government in April, including tax reforms and spending cuts. The fiscal situation will also benefit 
from the recovery of the Honduran economy in 2010-11, which will help boost tax revenues back to 
previous levels. In the medium to long run, the structural measures will pay off in terms of higher tax 
revenues and lower spending on public sector wages, especially teacher salaries.  
 
The coordinated financial and technical support of Honduras’ development partners will be 
important to ensure the success of these reforms.
 The proposed operation is being prepared in close 
coordination with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the European Union (EU), the Central 
American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Technical 
Page  2
assistance from the Bank and the IDB has helped in the formulation of the reforms and will support the 
implementation of the measures. In addition to the proposed DPC, budget support will be provided by 
the IDB, the EU, and the BCIE. Finally, the IMF is expected to begin negotiations for a new Stand-By 
Agreement (SBA) in early August. 
 
The Government’s fiscal reforms are complemented by the introduction of targeted social 
programs to mitigate the impact of the economic crisis and the fiscal austerity measures on the 
poor. 
The Government is preparing a new Conditional Cash Transfer Program (
Bono 10,000
)
with the 
aim of encouraging families to increase investments in education and child health and nutrition. The 
Program is expected to cover about 600,000 families living in extreme poverty and provide more 
adequate benefits (US$44 per month per family) conditional on their making efforts to improve 
children’s school attendance and the family’s use of preventive health services. The Bank is supporting 
the 
Bono 10,000
 through the recently approved Social Protection Project.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The operation’s Development Objective is to assist the Government in bringing public finances 
back on a sustainable path
.
The DPC operation supports progress towards the draft Interim Strategy 
Note’s objective of macroeconomic stability and growth. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The operation would support the Government’s efforts to stabilize the economy and reestablish 
the groundwork for growth.
 In particular, it seeks to support the
 Government’s program to tackle its 
difficult fiscal situation, which resulted from the combined political and economic crisis of 2009.  Four 
complementary areas are supported: (i) tax reform; (ii) civil service reform; (iii) reform of public service 
tariffs; and (iv) resolution of public sector arrears. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
While the electricity tariff reforms may have a beneficial impact, the overall reform program 
supported by the proposed operation is not expected to produce significant impacts on the 
environment, forests or other natural resources.
 Electricity tariffs in Honduras are below the cost 
recovery level and do not reflect the economic costs of supply. The low electricity prices seem to have 
induced higher electricity consumption per household compared to other countries in the region. A 
reduction in subsidies would translate into reduced electricity consumption and reduced green-house gas 
emissions, considering more than 60 per cent of total generation in Honduras is based on hydrocarbons.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
80 
 
Total 
80 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Christian Gonzalez 
Title: Economist 
Tel: 202-473-6135 
Email: 
cgonzalez@worldbank.org
Page  3
Contact: Jasmin Chakeri 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: 202-458-4882 
Email: 
jchakeri@worldbank.org
