Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6027 
Operation Name 
Honduras: Fiscal Emergency Recovery Development Policy 
Credit 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Country 
HONDURAS 
Sector 
Central Government Administration (100%) 
Operation ID 
P121220 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Credit 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
September 22
nd
 ,
2010
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 13
th
,
2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 9
th
,
2010 
Corporate Review 
Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The fiscal challenges that the Lobo administration is facing are the result of a combination 
of factors: the global crisis, the country’s political crisis, and pre-existing structural 
problems
.
As in many other countries, the fiscal situation deteriorated significantly in 2009. 
This was the result of the negative impact that the global crisis had on exports, remittances, 
availability of credit, and FDI flows which in turn affected growth and tax collection. In the case 
of Honduras, the impact of the global crisis was compounded by the political crisis which, in 
addition to its negative impact on the investment climate, resulted in the temporary suspension of 
aid from most of the international community. On the spending side, the application of a special 
labor regime for teachers (the so-called 
Estatutos
 approved in 1998) had resulted in recent years 
in large increases in the wage bill (which by 2009 it absorbed about 80 cents of each tax dollar 
collected) significantly limiting the space of the Government to adjust. Lower tax collection and 
availability of financing, a very rigid budget and, more generally, a lack of spending discipline 
during 2009 resulted in the build-up of substantial arrears estimated at around 5 percent of GDP 
by end 2009. Moreover, the political decision to withdraw from ALBA in January 2010 curtailed 
an important source of projected financing originating from Venezuela.  
In order to avoid a full-blown fiscal crisis, the Lobo administration has taken a series of 
decisive corrective measures that will help stabilize the fiscal situation
.
The Government’s 
fiscal consolidation efforts are being discussed with the donor community, including the Bank, 
the IMF and the IDB, in order to secure financial and technical support. The Government’s 
strategy includes tax reforms (expected to yield 1.0-1.5 percent of GDP annually), and spending 
cuts (2 percent of GDP), and considers measures to control public sector wages, especially 
teacher salaries (about 1 percent of GDP). Together with the expected recovery of the Honduran 
economy in 2010-11, these measures should be sufficient to bring the fiscal situation under 
Page  2
control. While many structural challenges remain to be tackled, the actions taken by the 
Government in recent months are an important first step. 
However, until the full impact of the reforms is observed, Honduras will need substantial 
donor support. 
Given that some of the introduced reforms will not have a full impact this year, 
the country still faces a significant financing gap for 2010, and the Government is relying on 
support from the donor community. This operation is being prepared in coordination with a 
number of other donors such as
 
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the European 
Union (EU), and the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) who are 
p
reparing similar operations, and with the IMF. The Fund’s Board will consider a new Stand-by 
Arrangement (SBA) on October 1, 2010. 
The Government is aware that the needed fiscal adjustment will not be painless.  
However, 
it is confident that the recently launched Conditional Cash Transfer Program (
Bono 10,000
)
will 
be able to offset many of the negative impacts of the adjustment on the poor. By end-2010, the 
Program is expected to cover about 150,000 families living in extreme poverty. The Bank is 
supporting the 
Bono 10,000
 through the recently approved Social Protection Project.  
2. Operation 
objective(s) 
The operation’s Development Objective is 
to assist the Government in bringing public 
finances back to a sustainable path.
.
Specifically, the operation supports four areas that are 
central to the reform program. (i) tax reform, including closing tax loopholes, widening some tax 
bases, and improving tax administration; (ii) civil service reform, focused on human resource 
management in the education sector and a rationalization of the public wage bill; (iii) reform of 
power sector tariffs to support the financial sustainability of the state-owned electricity company; 
and (iv) strengthening public financial management and transparency by resolving outstanding 
public sector arrears and investigating the shortcomings of the financial management information 
system. The DPC operation also supports the macroeconomic stability and growth objective of 
the Interim Strategy Note. 
3. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements. 
The Ministry of Finance (SEFIN) is responsible for the implementation of the DPC 
operation as well as for coordinating the actions among the concerned agencies, including 
the Central Bank of Honduras, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Planning. 
Together with SEFIN and the National Institute of Statistics (INE), these institutions collect the 
necessary data for the identified monitoring indicators.  The SEFIN and the Bank have agreed to 
monitor the progress in the program supported by the DPC and its evaluation will serve to inform 
preparation of a new Country Partnership Strategy.  
4. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation. 
The DPC is subject to four main risks: political, institutional, economic and environmental
.
On the political side, the main risk derives from the Government's ability to complete the 
implementation of the fiscal reform package. 
With a polarized society following the political 
crisis of 2009, approval and implementation of the planned fiscal package could be more 
difficult than anticipated and therefore jeopardize the needed fiscal adjustment. In order to 
Page  3
reduce this risk, the Government has been building consensus in society for the need to 
implement the reforms to bring the country's finances back to a sustainable path. 
On the institutional side, the main risks derive from the weakness in the capacity of the 
Government's institutions to implement the reforms. 
In order to reduce this risk, the Bank is 
working with other donors to support the Government's fiscal consolidation efforts, including 
through technical assistance. 
On the economic front, the main risk derives from the slow recovery of the global crisis
.
To 
the extent that the global slowdown lasts longer than expected, there is a risk that the fiscal 
situation will remain difficult and poverty and unemployment levels fail to decline significantly. 
The possibility of a prolonged economic slowdown has been incorporated into the 
macroeconomic projection and the Bank and the Fund are maintaining an on-going dialogue with 
the authorities on macroeconomic policy issues.  
On the environmental side, the main risks derive from the country’s high exposure to 
multiple natural disasters
.
Honduras has been hit by multiple hurricanes in recent years which 
resulted in significant damage.  The 
country’s past experience has highlighted the value of 
investing early warning systems, institutional strengthening and mitigation efforts.  Building on 
the progress made to date in this area, the Bank is providing both lending resources and 
analytical support to strengthen the country’s natural disaster mitigation systems. 
5. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects.  
Poverty and Social Impacts 
The reforms of electricity tariffs are likely to affect primarily the richer population. 
A
distributional analysis conducted by the IMF in 2008 showed that electricity subsidies consumed 
three-quarters of total grants and are poorly targeted, and that almost half goes to consumers in 
the highest income quintile. An estimate using the household survey data shows that only the 
richest 30 percent of the population consumes more than 150 kWh per month (see Figure 1) and 
will therefore be affected by the elimination of the electricity subsidy. The impact of the 12 
percent value-added tax on electricity will be even more concentrated, since only the richest 1 
percent of the population consumes more than 750 kWh per month. Similarly, the increase in 
electricity tariffs will affect these higher income groups more than the lower income groups, who 
will remain protected by the subsidy. The resulting expenditure on electricity consumption is 
depicted in Figure 2.  
The bulk of the impact of the three reforms combined, VAT reform, teacher’s salary freeze 
and electricity tariff reform, will fall on the top 50 percent of the income distribution
.
Therefore, the reforms are progressive. Moreover, as one can see from Figure 3, the 
Government’s conditional cash transfer program is likely to more than compensate the bottom 40 
percent of the income distribution for the increase in cost of living caused by the reforms. Thus, 
the net effect of the combined reforms 
and
the CCT program is likely to be a reduction in 
extreme poverty and inequality. Nevertheless, moderate poverty rates may increase, despite the 
drop in inequality, because households of the 5th and 6th deciles of the income distribution, 
which are closest to the moderate poverty line, are unlikely to be fully compensated by the CCT. 
Page  4
Figure 1: Energy consumption by income 
decile (kWh per month) 
Figure 2: Cost of electricity consumption: 
current and proposed 
Figure 3: Effect of reforms by income decile 
Source: 
Staff calculations based on household survey 
 
The implementation of the findings by the Supreme Audit Court could lead to class 
disruptions in public schools.
 The magnitude of the impact will depend on the number of 
teacher’s positions affected and the likely response by the Teacher Unions. To mitigate this risk, 
the Government has reached an agreement with representatives from the Teachers Unions to 
create and integrate a Special Committee who will study the recommendations by the Supreme 
Audit Court and, within a two month framework, present a final report with an agreed action 
plan to address these recommendations. 
Environment Aspects 
While the electricity tariff reforms may have a beneficial impact, the overall reform 
program supported by the proposed operation is not likely to produce significant impacts 
on the environment, forests or other natural resources
.
The tax reforms supported by this 
operation are not likely to have any significant positive or negative effects on the environment, 
Page  5
as the tax reforms are not pertinent to environmental regulations. Similarly, the prior actions 
related to civil service reforms pertain to the education sector and are not likely to have 
significant positive or negative effects on the environment. Electricity tariffs in Honduras are 
below the cost recovery level and do not reflect the economic costs of supply. The low electricity 
prices seem to have induced higher electricity consumption per household compared to other 
countries in the region. A reduction in subsidies would translate into reduced electricity 
consumption and reduced green-house gas emissions, considering more than 60 per cent of total 
generation in Honduras is based on hydrocarbons. In addition, the exemption of the value-added 
tax on electricity consumption contributes to the substitution of LPG gas, which is taxed, for 
electricity for cooking and water heating. Energy in the form of electricity is more costly for 
society, but its price is lower, which has been the main factor in the great popularity of electric 
stoves and electric water heaters in Honduras. 
 
6. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 
  0 
International Development Association 
74.7 
 Total 
74.7 
 
7. Contact 
points 
Contact: Christian Gonzalez 
Title: Economist 
Tel: 202-473-6135 
Email: 
cgonzalez@worldbank.org
Contact: Humberto Lopez 
Title: Lead Economist and Sector Leader, PREM 
Tel: 202-473-4909 
Email: hlopez
@worldbank.org
