Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16493
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SEVENTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1756-HA)
APRIL 15, 1997
Infrastructure Division
Countly Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
Exchange Rate for US$1.00
(September each year)
1987 - 5.00
1888 - 5.00
1889 - 5.00
1990 - 5.00
1991 - 5.00
1992 - 14.00
1993 - 14.00
1994 - 14.00
1995 - 14.00
1996 - 14.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APN                Autorite Portiere Nationale
CAMP                Community Action Maintenance Programn
CCCE                Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
DDT                 Direction des Transports
ERR                 Economic Rate of Retum
FAC                 Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FY                  Fiscal Year
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOH                 Govenment of Haiti
HDM                 Highway Design and Maintenance Model
HIMO                Haute Intensite de Main d'Oeuvre
IDA                 International Development Association
IDB                 Interamerican Development Bank
KFW                 Kreditanstalt fiMr Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MEF                 Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
MTPTC               Ministere des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SCCV                Service de Controle de la Circulation de Vehicules
SCR                 Service de Construction Routiere
SEMANAH             Service Maritime et de Navigation d'Haiti
SEP                 Service d'Etude et Planification
SEPRRN              Service d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National
TMP                 Transport Master Plan
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USAID               United States Agency for Intemational Development
VOC                 Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Director:          Paul Isenran
Division Chief:  Peter Ludwig
Task Manager:  Pierre Sooh



HAITI                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SEVENTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1756-HA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .......                     .............................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................................ii
PART L PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................................1
A.              INTRODUCTION .....................................................................1
Background ......................................1...............................
Bank Experience .....................................................................2
Project Objectives .....................................................................3
Evaluation of Objectives .....................................................................3
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES.                                                  ....................................................................             5
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................8
Road Sub-sector .....................................................................8
Maritime Services ....................................................................                                                                    11
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ....................................................................                                                                 12
Political and Macroeconomic Sustainability .................................................................... 12
Financial Sustainability ....................................................................                                                             13
Institutional Sustainability ....................................................................                                                         13
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ....................................................................                                                                       14
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ....................................................................                                                                   15
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ....................................................................                                                                 16
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ....................................................................                                                                      16
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................                                                                    16
Sector Lessons ....................................................................                                                                       16
Project Lessons ....................................................................                                                                      17
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES .....................................................................18
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ....................................................................                                                           18
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ....................................................................                                                       19
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIETABLE ....................................................................                                                                20
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .......................... 20
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION .................................................. 21
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ............................................................... 21
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .................................................................                                                        22
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ...............................................................                                                                       23
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .................................................................                                                                 24
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFITS ..................................................................                                                        24
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .................................................................                                                         25
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .................................................................                                                      28
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES MISSIONS .................................................................                                                           29
Appendices
A. MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE AND BORROWER CONTRIBUTION ................................................................ 30
B. Map IBRD No. 19042
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HAm
SEVENTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1756HA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Seventh Transport
Project in Haiti, for which Credit 1756-HA in the amount of SDR 16.6 million was
approved on February 12, 1987 and made effective on May 26, 1987.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1991. It was fally disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on October 31,
1996.
The ICR was prepared by Giuseppe Maria Bacigalupo, consultant, and reviewed
by Fernando Montenegro, Urban Transport Engineer, Pierre Sooh, Task Manager, and
Robert Crown, Project Adviser.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission on
September 1996. It is based on material in the project file and on information provided by
the borrower to the consultant during its mission to Haiti. The borrower contributed to
the ICR by preparing it's own evaluation of the project's execution (see Appendix A).



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SEVENTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1756-HA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    By the mid 1980s, Haiti was plagued with many structural economic and social
problems. In addition, social and political unrest started and expanded quickly causing,
eventually, the fall of the Government. The new transitional national authorities developed
a strategy aimed to foster the most productive sectors of the economy, particularly
agriculture, which employed 75% of the labor force. An important component of that
strategy was the implementation of a transport plan that, in addition to lowering transport
costs, offered the opportunity to alleviate unemployment with labor-intensive methods for
road construction and maintenance (par. 1-4).
2.    Prior to this loan the Bank had assisted the financing of the transport sector in
Haiti with six credits and one loan, including a port project. All of them, but the latter,
comprised roads and bridges' rehabilitation and maintenance, providing also extensive
technical assistance (par. 5-9). At present, another road maintenance and rehabilitation
project is under way (Credit 2691-HA).
Project Objectives
3.    The project was designed as a sector project. Its main objective was to contribute
towards achieving the country's economic and social goals by the improvement and
development of roads and coastal shipping, in support of agriculture and industry started
under previous projects, and continued strengthening of sector institutions (par. 10-12).
4.    The project included nine components integrated in three sub-sectors. In the road
sub-sector, there were included the rehabilitation of drainage structures and 35 km of
road, construction of two new bridges, procurement of tools for labor-intensive road
maintenance and technical assistance to strengthen the Transport Department (DDT). In
the maritime services sub-sector, there was included the construction of a slip-way for
boat- inspection and a training center and technical assistance to strengthen the Service



iii
Maritime et de Navigation d'Haiti (SEMANAH). The port sub-sector comprised technical
assistance to the Autorite Portuaire Nationale (APN) for studies and detailed engineering
for remedial works in the Jeremie Port (par. 13-14).
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The credit agreement was signed on February 12, 1987, and became effective on
May 26, same year. The project was completed on June 30, 1996, after two extensions of
the original closing date. The physical components in the road sub-sector were
substantially achieved, but in the maritime sub-sector planned infrastructure was not built
due to a lack of coordination between APN (which was to provide the land) and
SEMANAH. Concerning the Jeremie Port, preliminary studies were carried out, but the
detailed engineering design was not done. Strengthening of the sector institutions was
partially implemented in SEMANAH, but not at all in DDT. Labor-intensive works
executed by small and medium contractors (through SEPRRN and HIMO) were
successfully implemented, mostly on road maintenance and rehabilitation. See par. 16-25
and 30-45.
6.    The economic results were inferior to those estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR). Although the range of actual ERRs for the drainage structures were comparable
to those estimated in the SAR, those for the bridges and the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road
were considerably lower. The main reason was lack of maintenance after construction,
which made benefits from those components not sustainable (par. 26-29).
7.    Several factors affected the project, causing delays and hampering implementation
of some components. The most important of them was the country's ungovernability,
submerged in constant civil disturbances, which led to the coup and thereafter an
international trade embargo. Also of much influence were the scarce counterpart funds,
frequent changes in high ranking officials, lack of allocation of proper resources to road
maintenance, little coordination between agencies and inability to follow Bank procedures
(par. 46).
8.    The project has provided managerial capacity and execution base for the
implementation of labor-intensive works. This capacity is being utilized satisfactorily in the
implementation of the ongoing Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Credit
2691-HA, par. 48-54). The political and macroeconomic environment remains unclear as
to the timing of stronger economic re-activation that might alleviate unemployment and
improve social services. Financially, sustainability relies on the future implementation of
the road maintenance fund and the assignment of enough budget to road maintenance,
following the operational plan developed during the closing mission; these two conditions
would be possible to met under the assumption of a tight supervision from the Bank.



iv
Bank Performance
9.    Bank performance is unsatisfactory in the project identification, preparation and
appraisal since it failed to sufficiently take into consideration the experience from six
previous troubled sector projects. It performance during supervision was satisfactory
specifically in setting the capacity for management and execution of labor-intensive works.
Identification and preparation were mainly done under the previous credit, to which the
Seventh Transport Project is a continuation. During the appraisal mission, a thorough
document was developed. Retrospectively, the Bank did not assessed the risks correctly
and overestimated the capabilities of MTPTC, a highly bureaucratic line ministry, to
implement the changes recommended by the consultants on reorganization and staffing.
The project was supervised by 13 Bank missions, involving 52 staff weeks (par. 55-58).
Borrower Performance
10.   The Borrower's performance during project preparation was marginally
satisfactory. The implementation was unsatisfactory. It was not as strong as it could have
been due in large part to the difficult macroeconomic situation of the country, social and
political unrest, frequent cabinet changes, the coup and the resulting trade embargo that
Haiti suffered.
11.   Structural problems with the government's budgetary system imposed serious
constraints for adequate management. Significant political interference and excessive
dependence on the transfer of funds from the MEF, coupled with MlPTC's weakness in
contract administration caused a chronic shortage of counterpart funds.
12.   The Borrower's inability to coordinate different agencies prevented the
construction of the physical components in the maritime services sub-sector. In addition,
compliance with loan covenants is rated deficient. See par. 59-62.
Summary of Findings
13.   Overall, the project's outcome must be considered unsatisfactory. Only the HIMO
program achieved satisfactorily results. APN's institutional strengthening was nil and
DDT's and SEMANAH's were marginal. The training program on labor-intensive road
maintenance was carried out satisfactorily.
Future Operations
14.   MTPTC is taking actions that will contribute to assure project sustainability with
respect to the physical components, by implementing the operational plan, under which
enough funds to meet routine and periodic maintenance operations have been budgeted.
In addition, under the ongoing project (Credit 2691-HA) it is intended to develop and
implement a road maintenance fund.



v
Lessons Leamed
15.   There were derived sector and project lessons. Sector lessons are:
a)    In the case of countries like Haiti, with overwhelming social and
macroeconomic problems, an overall development plan should be
established wherein the Transport sector would be an instrumental
component to facilitate the Government's objectives.
b)    In view of the socioeconomic conditions and the scarce financial resources
of Haiti, the transport infrastructure should assure the physical integrity of
the country's network, through a careful planning process in order to
optimize the assignment of the available funds.
c)    Labor-intensive methods utilized by small and medium contractors
constitute a suitable tool to mitigate unemployment while achieving
acceptable rehabilitation and maintenance work.
Project lessons are:
a)    The implementing agency should be familiar with Bank procurement
procedures. In case of institutional weaknesses, early specific technical
assistance should be included in the project to avoid delays. Prior to
awarding works contracts, contractor's qualifications should be carefully
reviewed.
b)    Adequate coordination among different implementing agencies should be
assured to avoid conflicts, such as those in the project between
APN/SEMANAH and DDT/SCCV concerning land allocation and axle
load control respectively.
c)    Accounting systems of the various implementing agencies should be
compatible and designed with proper technical procedures to facilitate an
appropriate follow up and subsequent audits.
d)    The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) should be given the financial means
and personnel continuity to perform efficiently its task.
e)    The amount of counterpart funds should be correctly assessed at the time
of the appraisal, and if necessary lowered to be within the Borrower's real
possibilities.
f)    It is convenient to implement labor-intensive sub-projects in areas where
the unemployment originates, preventing migration from rural to urban
areas.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SEVENTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1756-HA)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.   In the mid eighties Haiti was plagued by a number of serious structural problems.
Its level of poverty was unique within the Western Hemisphere (a per capita income of
US$ 350), together with about 50% of the labor force unemployed or under-employed.
Almost 75% of the population lived in rural areas, and suffered from shortage of cultivable
land due to deforestation and subsequent soil erosion. As a result, agriculture production
fell steadily on a per capita basis, followed by a substantial rural-urban migration. In
addition, the labor-intensive export assembly industry, established in the mid seventies, and
which had created more than 50,000 jobs by 1980, was semi-paralyzed due to the world
recession experienced during 1980 and 1983. Economic recession led to increasing
political and civil unrest that expanded quickly, damaging the economy even further. The
unsustainability of the overall situation resulted in the fall of the national authorities in
February 1986, and a transitional new Government came into power.
2.    The Government of Haiti (GOH) developed a strategy to foster the most
productive sectors of the economy, assigning high priority to agriculture, which employs
about three quarters of the country's labor force. An essential component of the strategy
was to reduce the transport component of agricultural production cost and improvements
of access to both domestic and foreign markets. The road and maritime sub-sectors were
also to be strengthened. The rural population would be the principal beneficiary from
improved road access and coastal shipping services, while the entire economy would
benefit from savings in Vehicle Operation Costs (VOC), improved coastal shipping
operations and marketing of agricultural production.
3.   In addition, the transport sector offered a suitable opportunity to alleviate the high
unemployment in both rural and urban areas by means of labor intensive methods for road
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance. The Seventh Transport Project was planned
and implemented to further this strategy with financing through the International



2
Development Association (IDA) under Credit 1756-HA, signed on February 12, 1987,
and effective on May 26, 1987.
4.    At the request of the new Government in office in February 1991, following the
national elections the previous December, an urban highway component was added to the
project, as part of a major restructuring.
Bank Experience
5.    Since 1956, and prior to this credit, the Bank Group had extended one loan and six
credits to Haiti for its transport sector for a total of US$ 73.0 million equivalent. The first
Bank Loan 141-HA (US$ 2.6 million) comprised maintenance and rehabilitation of about
1,000 km of road, and was completed under an Interim Highway Credit (32-HA) for US$
350,000 in 1962. Political and managerial problems hampered the correct implementation
of these projects, mainly because disputes occurred between the Government and IDA on
the standards applied, as traffic grew more rapidly than forecast. After more than a
decade, the Bank started operations again within the transport sector. The second and
third projects (Credits 478-HA, for US$ 10.0 million in 1974, and 556-HA, for US$ 20.0
million, in 1975), included the reconstruction of 250 km of the Northern Road and the
reconstruction of a number of bridges. These projects provided all-weather access
between Port-au-Prince and the main northern city and port, Cap Haitien, as well as
linking the Artibonite Valley to the most important food consuming centers. They also
financed and initiated vehicle axle-load control.
6.    The Fifth Transport Project (Credit 807-HA, for US$ 15.0 million, 1978),
comprised the upgrading and paving of 54 km of roads in the Northern Plains, a feeder
road to Jeremie Port, construction of the Hypolite and Trois Rivieres bridges and new
terminals for shallow draft vessels Port-au-Prince, Port-de-Paix and Jeremie. Project
supervision was weak, with no missions visiting the project for an entire year. The Project
Completion Report (PCR) stated that most of the road construction deficiencies could
have been avoided by close monitoring of the consultants in charge of supervision. It
concluded that the success of future projects in the sector would depend upon stricter
supervision.
7.    Under the Port Project (Credit 1121-HA, for US$ 11.0 million, in 1981), co-
financed by the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW), a berth for cruise ships, a wharf
for break-bulk cargo and another for Ro-Ro general cargo vessels, were constructed,
together with a wharf for coastal vessels at Cap Haitien. In addition other small ports
were rehabilitated or constructed. The PCR concluded that, given the subsequent
economic developments in Haiti, the investments in the Cap Haitien Port were premature
and the viability of the project's coastal shipping ports would depend upon an appropriate
pricing policy and institutional improvements in SEMANAH. This pricing issue
implementation was included as a covenant in the Seventh Transport Project, but it was
not resolved.



3
8.    The Sixth Highways Project (Credit 1220-HA, for US$ 14.0 million, in 1982),
continued this chain of projects designed to address basic infrastructure needs to support
Haiti's economic growth and social objectives. The project was based on a country
development plan derived from a Transport Master Plan (TMP), prepared in the late
seventies, and which served as a framework for program coordination among the principal
international financial agencies involved in the transport sector (IDA, IDB and USAID).
Its main objectives were the intensification of road maintenance and the upgrading or
rehabilitation of about 1,000 km of gravel roads to paved standards, the improvement of
another 1,000 km of secondary roads to gravel standards, and the rehabilitation and
upgrading of many aging steel and concrete bridges. The principal role of IDA was to
finance the rehabilitation of 57 bridges and other drainage structures, and the rehabilitation
of about 100 km of the Northern Road between Gonaives and Cap Haitien, and to provide
technical assistance to the maintenance branch of the implementing agencies, the Service
d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National (SEPRRN) and the Ministere des
Travaux Publics Transports et Communications (MTPTC), respectively.
9.    The Sixth Highway Project did not fully achieve its objectives. By late 1983
USAID withdrew its support to Haiti, suspending its long standing technical assistance
and financial backing, impacting at the project level on the technical assistance provided to
SEPRRN. Social unrest and riots began following the rapid deterioration of the country's
economic and social fabric. The GOH had to reduce public expenditure because of
scarcity of financial resources, from which time the provision of counterpart funds became
a major constraint on project implementation. Budget allocations for road maintenance
were cut dramatically and the targets agreed at negotiations were not met. Unforeseen
time lags, increasing costs of consulting services, and the need to bolster the technical
assistance to the road maintenance program reduced the finance available for the original
bridge rehabilitation component and rehabilitation of the Northern Road (although in this
case the contractor failed to perform satisfactory work because it might have
overestimated its capabilities when accepting the contract). It was agreed with GOH that
finance for the outstanding works (the second phase of the bridge rehabilitation and part
of the Northern Road) and further technical assistance (labor intensive methods in road
maintenance, through SEPRRN) would be included in the Seventh Transport Project.
Project Objectives
10.   The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve and rehabilitate roads and
bridges; (b) improve coastal shipping operations; and (c) continue strengthening the sector
institutions through programs of staff training and technical assistance.
Evaluation of Objectives
11.   These objectives were in line with GOH's major development policies, improving
living conditions in rural areas in order to retain the population in site and creating a
favorable environment for private investment, employment growth, and some access to
social resources. They were also in accordance with the Bank's country and sector



4
strategies that emphasized the importance of maintaining and improving the access of rural
communities to social services and markets. These basic objectives remained unchanged
during project implementation, although after a loan amendment, on April 1991, the
project was restructured and most of the remaining funds were reallocated to the HIMO
sub-project, which was highly oriented to assist technically and strengthen local
communities in the creation ofjobs, together with fostering private sector to participate in
road maintenance activities.
12.   The project's objectives were clear, concrete and consistent with the overall Bank
lending policy. This included support to the agricultural sector, especially in the northern
rural plains of the country. This was to be achieved by the provision of improved highway
accessibility, coastal shipping operations, coastal shipping port facilities, strengthening of
the Government's sector institutions, and pushing forward appropriate initiatives to cope -
at least partially- with the soaring unemployment reigning in the country.
13.   IDA collaborated in developing the project and assisted the GOH in project
identification and preparation. The project included nine components split among three
sub-sectors, namely:
(a)   Roads
(i)   continuation of works started under the previous Sixth Highway
Project, Credit 1220-HA, i.e., the rehabilitation of bridges and
drainage structures, located on departmental and secondary roads,
totaling 38 km;
(ii)   construction of the Fer-a-Cheval Bridge (which had collapsed) and
the Guayamouc Bridge (which was unserviceable);
(iii)  rehabilitation of about 35 km of the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road
(deferred from the Sixth Highway Project);
(iv)   acquisition and utilization of tools, equipment and spare parts for
road maintenance;
(v)   technical assistance to strengthen the staff skills of the Direction
Des Transports (DDT) in respect of planning, road maintenance,
equipment management, and support of a program to improve
labor-based techniques for secondary road construction and
maintenance.
(b)   Maritime Services, the components in support of the Service Maritime et
de Navigation d'Haiti (SEMANAH), included:
(i)   construction of a slip-way and yard for inspection and minor repairs
of vessels;



5
(ii)   construction of a training center for seamen;
(iii)  technical assistance to strengthen SEMANAH's administration,
management and operation.
(c)   Port Imorovement, assisting the Autorite Portuaire Nationale (APN) with
a detailed study of the problems caused by silt on the mooring basin of the
Jeremie Port, preparation of preliminary studies and, following IDA review
and approval, preparation of detailed engineering for the remedial works.
14.   The responsibility for project execution was divided among three implementing
agencies: (a) DDT for the roads and bridges, (b) SEMANAH for the maritime regulatory
service facilities, and (c) APN for the Jeremie port engineering studies. A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) was established to assure proper coordination and monitoring of
implementation, as well as to produce progress reports. The PCU comprised the
Directors of DDT, SEMANAH and APN, and a senior representative of the Ministere de
''Economie et des Finances (MEF) -to which APN reports-, chaired by the Director of
DDT. A qualified and experienced engineer, responsible for the daily follow up of project
implementation was also appointed as a Project Implementation Officer. Consulting
services and technical assistance were contracted to provide engineering, supervision and
technical support to the implementing agencies in charge of each component of the
project.
15.   The total cost of the project was estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) at
US$ 24.0 million, with a foreign exchange cost of US$ 18.7 million (representing 78% of
the total project cost), and local costs of US$ 5.3 million equivalent. Included in this cost
were physical and price contingencies, which represented 10.25% of the total base cost.
Physical contingencies ranged from 5% for civil works for which detailed engineering
were completed, to 15% for items for which only preliminary estimates were available.
Price increases for both local and foreign costs components were assumed at 3% for FY87
and 1% for FY88-FY89, in accordance with Bank Guidelines on expected price increases.
The IDA credit of US$ 20.0 million (equivalent to SDR 16.6 million) was to finance the
full foreign exchange costs and 25% of local costs. The GOH was to finance the balance
of US$ 4.0 million equivalent in local currency.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
16.   Improvement and rehabilitation of roads and bridges. The project
accomplished substantially this objective.
17.   Drainage Structures. Contractors finished the construction of eight 16-meter
bridges and 27 culverts (2m x 2m). Works were completed between the beginning of
1987 and the first quarter of 1990 within the SAR's estimated schedule. Three fords
included in the SAR were not built. The final construction costs totaled US$ 7,652,214
equivalent, compared with the SAR estimate of US$ 8,663,900.



6
18.   Bridges. Contractors completed the construction of: (a) the Fer-a-Cheval bridge
(four 20-meter spans), on the Mirebalais-Balladere road, and (b) the Guayamouc bridge at
Hinche (four 20-meter spans + 10 meters). Both were built in 1988, and their final cost
was US$ 4,692,368 equivalent, while the SAR estimate was US$ 3,600,300. These works
were completed in less time than estimated in the SAR. The length of the Guayamouc
bridge was enlarged to 90 m from the 80 m indicated in the SAR.
19.   Road Rehabilitation. The original rehabilitation program that included the
strengthening of 20 km of the North Road and spot repairs and surface dressing on
additional 15 km of the road, giving a total of 35 km, was modified with IDA agreement,
to include the whole length of 96 km of the road.
20.   Improvement of Coastal Shipping Operations and Port Improvement. This
objective was not achieved. Regarding the civil works for both the slip-way and the
training center, no more than the architectural and engineering designs were completed.
With respect to the remedial works and improvements of the Jeremie port, only the
consulting services for engineering investigations and a study of alternative remedial
works, jointly with the economic feasibility of these alternatives, were completed. The
design and detailed engineering was not undertaken.
21.   Strengthening of Sector Institutions. The achievement of this objective was
marginal. Although two studies to strengthen the sector institutions (DDT and
SEMANAH) were carried out by foreign consultants hired under the program, almost
nothing was implemented, particularly in respect of DDT. We should highlight that the
project was virtually stopped for three years during the embargo and political problems in
the country did not provide a stable background environment for institutional
development.
22.   Macroeconomics Policies. The completion of the civil works in the road sub-
sector provided reliable access to the rural areas whose population benefited from the
project through the transport cost savings. Also, the Community Action Maintenance
Program (CAMP), and later sub-projects carried out by the Haute Intensite de Main
d'Oeuvre program (HIMO) created a number ofjobs that helped in alleviating to some
extent poverty and unemployment as long as financial aid from the Bank was available and
used properly. However, when the coup d'etat took place in September 1991, most of the
benefits were drastically reduced and, in the following three years, economic
mismanagement and an international trade embargo led to a sharp decline in living
standards. Merchandise exports fell from about US$ 200 million in 1991 to some US$ 60
million in 1994, and GNP per capita fell from US$ 320 in 1991 to US$ 220 in 1994.
23.   Transport Sector Policies. A Road Taxation Maintenance Funding Study was
successfully completed under the project. The study concluded that revenues from road
user charges should be enough to cover all routine and periodic maintenance expenditure,
once the network has been rehabilitated and tax collections are improved. The study also
stated that of the US$ 6.5 million per year spent on maintenance and rehabilitation, just
US$ 1 million was spent on works, compared with a need of about US$ 15 million. A



7
follow up study (to be funded under the ongoing Credit 269 1-HA) will start in the near
future aimed at generating a coherent roads funding strategy.
24.   Institutional Development. The objectives of further institutional development
on DDT failed, although a good study to restructure its organization and job
reclassifications, together with training on planning methods, was done by a consulting
firm. SEMANAH has been successfully restructured with three new divisions, and under
the program various actions were implemented, including: formulating a Maritime Code,
compiling a safety manual for vessels and a ship registration code, and provision of an
inspection manual for coastal vessels and sailor's registration proceedings.
25.   Physical Objectives. In the road sub-sector, all physical targets were completed
(see par. 17-19).
26.   Economic Results. The economic re-evaluation of the project and the
comparison of its results with those of the SAR has been hampered by the loss of all the
Bank files related to technical project preparation, due to various changes in the Bank's
regions structure, internal movements and many government changes during an unstable
political period in the country. Therefore, the economic evaluation of the project
components and the risk analysis considered at that time could not be reviewed. Since the
completion of the civil works on the road sub-sector, no routine or periodic maintenance
has been carried out at all. Therefore VOCs should have been higher than those
considered at appraisal, and the traffic growth rate lower than that considered at SAR.
The traffic counts handed over by the Borrower during the closing supervision mission are
not updated (the latest records are April 1990) and not reliable, showing, for example, the
same average daily traffic existing ten years ago on the Gonaives-Cap Haitien section. So,
the economic analysis to compare ERRs assessed at appraisal required more assumptions
than usual, but the indications are that benefits of the main components (Northern Road
and principal bridges) were lower and less sustainable than expected.
27.   The assumptions made for the economic post evaluation considered: (i) traffic
growth as same rate as GDP since 1990; (ii) unit VOC same as in SAR; (iii) no
maintenance costs as no maintenance was undertaken. Actual construction costs were
used.
28.   The results of the economic evaluation show a diminution compared with the
estimated in the SAR. Thus, as can be seen in Table 9 (A) for Drainage Structures, while
the estimated EER ranged from 16.2% to 87.3%, the actual go from 17.3% to 77.9%; (B)
for the two main bridges estimated ERRs were 18.3% (Guayamouc) and 120.2% (Fer-a-
Cheval), while the actual are 13.8% and 87.3%, respectively; and finally, (C) for the Cap-
Haitien road, the estimated ERR was 28% and the actual 19%. For the whole project,
the average cost-weighted ERR derived from the SAR estimates was 39% and the actual
31%, showing a loss of more than a fifth from the estimated originally.
29.   During the mission, the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road section, rehabilitated in early
1995, was entirely toured. After only five years in service it had deteriorated. The



8
reasons for this deterioration are: the absolute lack of maintenance and the heavy vehicle
traffic on the road (operating overloaded and therefore causing damage to pavement
structures and bridges). This road is one of the main national roads in the country.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
30.   The project was scheduled to start in mid 1987 and completed on June 30, 1991.
Soon after launching, some problems arose due to civil unrest and violent political
demonstrations and some civil works to be carried out on the road were affected and had
to stop. Even though the overall performance for the first three years may be considered
satisfactory, political changes and an increasing social unrest, motivated some delays that
slowed the project, the climax being the coup and the sanctions imposed thereafter by the
international community.
31.   Some components of the project were only partially achieved. Concerning the
physical works, only those included in the road sub-sector were completed, with a
considerable delay in the Northern Road, as compared with the schedule estimated in the
SAR. The civil works foreseen for the maritime sector could not be accomplished, nor the
full technical assistance for the remedial works on the Jeremie port. The strengthening of
the sector institutions, the studies and training included in the SAR were carried out, but
were not fiully implemented. The details are summarized as follows.
Road Sub-sector
32.   Road Rehabilitation. The original rehabilitation program that included the
strengthening of 20 km of the North Road and spot repairs and surface dressing on
additional 15 km of the road, giving a total of 35 km, was modified with IDA agreement.
The reason was severe degradation of the entire Gonaives-Cap Haitien road resulting from
lack of maintenance during the period between the time of preparation of the program,
when a comprehensive study of the road network was carried out in 1981 by a consulting
firm on the Fifth Highway Project, and the actual contracting of the works. For the
worse, the condition of the road deteriorated heavily during the rainy season. As a result,
the whole link between Gonaives and Cap Haitien, of 96 km, had to be rehabilitated.
33.   The first works contract, signed under Credit 1220-HA in 1983, with a contractor
whose performance turned out to be inadequate, was rescinded in early 1987. A new
contract under Credit 1756-HA signed in mid 1987, was based on the scope of the works
contracted in 1983 under the previous Sixth Highway Project. The new contract was
therefore expanded to include additional works needed due to the deterioration of the road
that took place since 1983. The expansion of the scope of the works was made possible
through parallel financing obtained from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE), that also provided the counterpart funds which GOH should have contributed.



9
As a result, the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road was divided into three sections: A (30.2 km),
B (38.7 km) and C (27.3 km). IDA financed the works on sections A and C, while CCCE
on section B. The works were eventually accomplished under the good supervision of a
foreign consulting firm. The final costs were US$ 5,681,190 for sections A and C and FF
19,871,457 for section B.
34.   Along the construction period (which started in April 1988) there were delays in
payment due to a chronic lack of counterpart funds and political instability caused by
frequent changes within the GOH's cabinet, which led to poor management that resulted
in cash flow shortages. The contractor stopped the works in October 1988, following non
payment of local counterparts. Seven months later the works recommenced after the
signing of a major amendment of the contract in May 1989, but this was not without
additional costs due to further deterioration of the road and a penalty for work stoppage.
The entire link was completed in 1990.
35.   Road Maintenance. The technical assistance for SEPRRN was provided by a
consulting firn which was actively involved in training MTPTC's personnel before the
beginning of the project, and then it was continued with the services of a personal
consultant that was hired later on. Both had good performance. The main problem was
the chronic lack of funds to allocate on maintenance, far below the needs.
36.   Under the project, SEPRRN was given equipment and diverse tools for road
maintenance and managed to undertake either construction or road maintenance of
departmental and feeder roads, working along with 56 communities under the Community
Action Maintenance Program (CAMP). Within this program 666 km of secondary and
departmental roads were maintained. Nevertheless, due to fund shortages that impeded
continuity of the works, CAMP with 27 communities was stopped in December 1987 (the
program had not received any payments since August 1987). The works were resumed
later on, but because of an increasing shortage of budget allocated to SEPRRN, this task
was discontinued. Only after a major amendment on April 1991, which implied a
restructuring of the Project did the works start again under a new unit within the MTPTC
called Unite de Coordination d'Haute Intensite de Main d'Oeuvre (UC-HIMO) to which
all the remaining funds of Credit 1756-HA, along with the one from Urban Development
Credit 1.338-HA and Special Fund SF1-HA, were reallocated.
37.   In view of the critical level of unemployment and the accumulated backlog of
infrastructure maintenance, the new GOH decided to finance a three year priority labor
intensive Road Maintenance Program with those resources which amounted to about US$
4,000,000. An additional provision of US$ 800,000 was given out by the Fond d'Aide et
de Cooperation (FAC) to GOH in order to finance the local counterpart and to assure a
revolving fund for the Program. The main objectives of the program were: (a) generate
employment, (b) carry out some priority maintenance activities on the road and drainage
networks and, (c) test management tools and labor techniques proposed for both urban
and interurban sub components. IDA agreed to finance the purchase of materials, tools,
fuel and supplementary staff working hours, plus the expenses of the UC-HIMO,
comprising a foreign labor intensive expert and a local accounting firm.



10
38.   Project Amendment. According to these changes, a major amendment was
necessary and the funds were reallocated as shown in Table A, below. The closing dates
of the two referred credits were extended: Credit 1338 and SF1 to December 31, 1991
and Credit 1756 to June 30, 1992.
Table A: Final Allocation of Credit Resources
(S DR)
Category               Original  Amendment
Allocation
1. Works for Parts A and B       11,320,000   10,850,000
2. Goods for Part A               1,180,000     800,000
3. Technical Assistance, Training,
Consultants' Services
and Audits:
(a) for Parts A and B           2,450,000    4,650,000
(b) for Part C                    210,000     300,000
4. Unallocated                    1,440,000       -
Total                          16,600,000   16,600,000
39.   HIMO work was undertaken in two phases, the first phase from May 1991 to June
1993, the second phase when the project was reactivated in 1995 until the new closing
date of June 30, 1996. Under Phase I, eight sub-projects were fully accomplished and
another two partially completed. Its total cost was US$ 1,626,000. Under Phase II, five
sub-projects were completed and another four started. In addition, materials for another
two sub-projects were purchased. The six uncompleted sub-projects are going to be
continued under Credit 2691-HA. The total cost of Phase II was US$ 3,840,000, financed
by IDA entirely.
40.   At the beginning, the tasks had some delays because the staff teams were just
formed and faced certain difficulties with the bureaucratic procedures to which the new
officials were unfamiliar and for some months very little progress was made. The presence
of a resident representative in the country would have solved most of these problems. The
work pace increased and in September 1991, the credit disbursement reached
approximately US$ 120,000. Following the coup, IDA suspended payments and the
works slowed down. In September 1992, due to the devolution of G 3,980,000 (US$
800,000 equivalent), for a double payment made to a consulting firm (this fact was
detected later by the auditors), the pace of the works sped up, with US$ 240,000
disbursed in November 1992, and from then on slowed down until there were no more
funds available by June 1993. After three years of trade embargo, the legal authorities
were reinstalled by mid 1995 and the project was reactivated and the non-disbursed
amount (US$ 3.71 million) was applied to Phase II given the success the program had



11
shown. The HIMO component has turned to be an outstanding part of the Project and
was given technical and financial continuity by means of the ongoing Credit 2691-HA.
41.   Technical Assistance for DDT. A foreign consulting firm completed a study on
the institutional and technical issues of DDT. A number of recommendations were made
for institutional improvements in accordance with DDT and an engineering council,
reporting directly to the Minister. Not much follow-up was made on that study, due to
continuous political changes in the MTPTC that have occurred since the study was
completed. When the new Administration took office in February 1991, another
comprehensive Institutional Review of the whole Ministry was undertaken with financing
from the IDA's Special Fund SF1-HA. This study was well received by the new GOH,
and its recommendations were to be included as an input in the new Road Maintenance
Project, then under preparation, although no changes have been done so far. The
technical issues of the task fulfilled by the consultant firm -developed for the Service
d'Etude et Planification (SEP)-, included sector data banks, methodologies on
maintenance planning, economic feasibility of road improvement, analytic methods to
derive unit costs on road construction and training for a number of staff engineers on the
HDM III model used for performing the feasibility studies of two road sections within the
training program. This part of the technical assistance was not implemented.
Maritime Services
42.   Coastal Shipping. Regarding the civil works for both the slip-way and the
training center, no more than the architectural and engineering designs were achieved.
Despite some problems related to some design aspects with the boat repair facility (which
was later revised) and certain over-design of the training facility, the key conflict which
impeded any progress in the works construction was an internal dispute between
SEMANAH and APN concerning the land allotment needed for those purposes, which
was to be acquired from APN.
43.   SEMANAH was created by Decree 11 of March 3, 1982 as part of the
Government's agreement under the Port Development Project (Credit 1121-HA), which
defined its functions and organization. The agency is in charge of the regulation and
administration of the maritime services, including efficiency and safety of shipping
operations. SEMANAH has no financial resources of its own (to which it has the right
under the provisions of Decree 11). Only eight months after its creation, SEMANAH's
right to collect fees from coastal and sea-going ships was taken away from it without any
legal basis and given to APN, leaving SEMANAH totally dependent on allocations from
the Government's general budget. Through the years those allocations proved to be
insufficient to ensure adequate performance. From FY 88 to FY 91, the budgeted
financial resources stood at US$ 200,000, whereas the minimum agreed budget under the
project should have been an average of about US$ 1,000,000.
44.   A foreign consulting firm was hired in order to develop operational efficiency and
to establish a training program for seamen. That technical assistance proved to be quite
good and the consultants prepared a Maritime Code and Safety and Inspections



12
regulations, but due to GOH's inaction neither of them were approved nor enforced.
Nevertheless, the partial restructuring of SEMANAH which was made following
recommendations of the consultants, provided some managerial benefits.
45.   Port of Jeremie. The amount of money considered at appraisal for allocation to
APN was not enough for the three stages of remedial works. In fact, the financial
resources just met the costs of the basic studies and designs. At present, the APN
authorities are considering a combination of two alternatives developed by the consultants,
but its preliminary high cost would make it difficult to justify.
46.   To sum up, the factors which impacted on the project are as follows:
(a)   Factors not subject to government control: these factors include a high
degree of ungovemability in the country, exacerbated by a constant social
restlessness, and finally the overthrown of the government which led to the
embargo's impact, by far the worst negative factor faced by the project.
(b)   Factors subject to government control: these factors include the constant
turnover of high-ranking officials, recurrent scarcity of counterpart funds,
lack of allocation of appropriate resources to road maintenance and to the
sector agencies, slow response to enforce the Maritime Code and other
regulations, inaction to enforce the load axle control, and finally absolute
lack of coordination between agencies (APN/SEMANAH, on land
allotment; and DDT/SCCV on axle load control).
(c)   Factors subject to implementing agencies control: these factors include
lack of experience regarding the Bank's procedures and regulations on the
type of project under execution and neglect in implementing the
recommendations and products derived from technical assistance.
47.   The final cost of the project amounted to US$ 25.33 million, or 5.54% greater
than the original estimate, although it must be taken into consideration that the project
was restructured, and some funds to be invested in civil works and goods were diverted to
strengthen the labor intensive component. From the beginning of the project until late
1991, almost 85% of the loan was disbursed, keeping a fairly good track record compared
with the estimated schedule. Then, after the coup, the release was nil until October 1995,
soon after the program was reactivated, and the remaining funds were totally disbursed.
The credit closed on June 30, 1996, five years later than the original closing date.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Political and Macroeconomic Sustainability
48.   Haiti's economic and social situation remains uncertain. Regardless of what
happens in the transport sector, the sustainability of the project benefits depends on
improvement in social stability. Considering the macroeconomic variables of the country



13
unless economic re-activation soon starts to show results, especially in terms of higher
employment and improved social services, unmet expectations could lead to social and
political instability.
Financial Sustainability
49.   Public sector finances are weak. There is an unbalanced equation between
revenues and expenditures, with a projected increasing deficit and growing social
obligations in health and education, so there is little chance to maintain budget allocations
to road maintenance, as it has always been in Haiti (see par. 6-9). However, the future
implementation of a special financing mechanism based on user charges (such as a Road
Maintenance Fund) might ensure revenue allocations for road maintenance. As a covenant
clause of the ongoing Credit 2691 -HA, the study and implementation of such scheme
should provide some financial sustainability to the project.
50.   The principal project benefits have been in the development of labor-intensive
maintenance work. This would sustain rural employment and help reduce the drift of
population to the urban area of Port au Prince. It would also prevent a deterioration in the
quality of the secondary road network, and on the main road network by keeping the
drains clear, an important factor in maintenance given the tropical climate of Haiti.
Funding for labor and materials for this maintenance will come from the on-going sector
credit in the short term. In the medium and longer term a reform of public sector finances,
both at the national level and within the transport sector will be needed if further
dependence on IDA funding is to be avoided. Therefore, financial sustainability depends
on Haiti's ability to continue attracting donor and other concessionaire multilateral
finance, and to implement user-charges mechanisms coupled with lowering the expenses,
which might be achieved by enforcing axle-load control and performing routine road
maintenance activities.
51.   Funds are expected to be allocated to maintain the roads under this project as
detailed in the operation plan agreed with MTPTC during the closing mission. If this plan
is followed, there is a good chance for a reasonable sustainability of the program.
Institutional Sustainability
52.   Benefits of reconstruction of the road sector depend on its continued routine
maintenance. The lack of adequate funds from user charges and the impossibility of
increasing them in the short term makes sustainability of the benefits of this project
component dependent on a continuation of foreign aid. This is being provided by the on-
going Transport Sector Project in the short term, but longer term financial sustainability
must be resolved in the course of the new sector project.
53.   The Maritime Code, and other sector regulations (see par. 41-42), depend on the
passage of legislation by the Congress. The technical work has been completed
satisfactorily. The implementation of the new laws and sustainability of the regulatory



14
regime depends upon the availability of financial resources to SEMANAH. GOH is
tabling in Congress the implementation of Decree 11 establishing independent sources of
finance for SEMANAH.
54.   Lack of institutional capacity and an inappropriate structure make sustainability of
the maintenance program questionable. However, this issue is being addressed in the on-
going sector project by studies for a new institutional structure and continued technical
training.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
55.   The Bank spent nearly 90 staff weeks to identify, prepare and appraise the project,
including 112 person-days in the field. A total of 52 staff weeks were spent on
supervision, including 148 person-days in the field.
56.   Project identification and preparation: Concerning project identification, the
Bank's performance can be rated Unsatisfactory. Credit 1756-HA was mainly a
continuation of a previous project (Credit 1220-HA) that could not be completed because
of a number of problems related to the country's governability and the lack of national
funds to meet the counterpart share. Furthermore, physical and financing targets were not
reasonable in view of the failures of the six previous projects. The preparation stage
should be rated Unsatisfactory, considering the problems that arose later during the
project implementation, such as the physical components of the maritime sub-sector or the
delays caused by the little knowledge of Bank procedures, among others.
57.   Project appraisal: Unsatisfactory. Project appraisal, in a thorough document,
properly identified the key arrangements needed for successful project completion. The
appraisal mission was staffed with diversified skills suitable for the task. Some issues were
clearly identified, especially two main subjects: the level of road maintenance budgeting
and the institutional strengthening for effective planning, management and operation,
although the experience drawn from the six previous loans/credits indicated that the risks
were not entirely taken into account. Both continue to be major issues today as shown in
the new Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project appraisal report. Project design
was straight forward and aimed at strengthening DDT and SEMANAH. However, even
though the agencies reporting to MTPTC (DDT and SEMANAH) were included together
with APN within the Project Coordination Unit, the conflict on land allotment, which
resulted in the non accomplishment of the civil works in the maritime sub-sector, was not
foreseen. Unlikely sustainability of benefits derived from physical road components, since
preventive road maintenance was deferred, was not predicted rightly in spite of Bank's
experience from the previous sector projects.
58.   Supervision: Satisfactory. Project implementation was monitored closely by
Bank periodic missions drawing attention to potential difficulties and identifying the major
setbacks to project implementation. Nine supervision missions were sent from the start of



15
the project until the embargo, and, when it was reactivated up to the final closing date,
five more. The status and progress of implementation was well reported in different
reports and aide memoires, which promptly identified problems and recommended follow-
up actions to be taken by the implementation agencies. Bank missions discussed problems
with Haitian authorities, offered comments and suggestions. Physical and financial targets
were periodically revised. The presence of a permanent representative might have
facilitated better understanding of Bank procedures by implementing agencies.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
59.   Preparation: Marginally Satisfactory. As a result of the macroeconomics and
social constraints challenging the country, and the fact that a new transitional Government
was in power, the Borrower's participation in the preparation process at that difficult time
was less than satisfactory.
60.   Project implementation: Unsatisfactory. Bridges construction and road
rehabilitation works met their targets. Maintenance was well below expectations and for
that reason the roads deteriorated faster than expected. Qualified and experienced
personnel left DDT and technical staff suffered a high turnover during implementation.
Performance on labor-intensive road maintenance was better than could be anticipated
after so many, and radical changes, and proved to be one of the successes of the project.
The internal dispute between APN and SEMANAH was a major failure.
61.   Most foreign contractors and consultants performed in a satisfactory manner.
However, some contracts encountered technical and administrative problems causing
delays (about eight months, without taking into account the coup and its aftermath).
Supervision and project monitoring, carried out by consultants, was mostly fair.
62.   Compliance with loan covenants: It was Deficient in light of emergency context.
The GOH was not able to fully comply with the covenants agreed, especially those
concerning maintenance budgeting and the enforcement of axle load control, which had a
very negative impact on the road condition, allowing its early deterioration. Timely
maintenance would have prevented extensive and costly damage at a fraction of the cost
for the repairs. Preparation of annual financial and technical audit reports were always
behind schedule. On the maritime sub-sector, the international port tariffs studied under
the project were not put into effect; neither were the coastal tariffs, because the related
study was never made. Budget allocation to SEMANAH was a minimal fraction of the
agreed yearly amounts.



16
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
63.   The overall rating of the project is just unsatisfactory. As discussed in the
previous paragraphs and given the implementation scenario, although all the physical road
components were implemented only the labor-intensive work program stands out. But the
sustainability of their benefits will depend on a proper road maintenance funding and a
continuing stream of financial assistance, both still uncertain. Given HIMO's, good
implementation track record so far, this component is going to be expanded to include
more urban and interurban routine maintenance activities under the ongoing Credit 269 1-
HA. Project sustainability will depend on funds availability.
64.   The project failed in fulfilling its institutional objectives. Two rather good studies
on agency strengthening (DDT and SEMANAH) were completed, yet they were not
implemented due to MTPTC inaction.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
65.   MTPTC, the main implementing agency has taken appropriate steps to ensure
effective project operation. The Operational Plan, attached to the closing aide memoire,
shows that resources have been allocated in order to keep in good condition the civil
works accomplished under the project. In the national budget, the MTPTC has assigned
enough funds to meet the annual maintenance operations (emergency, routine and
periodic) for the road and bridge components. In addition, a set of monitoring
performance indicators would be in place under the ongoing project (Credit 2691-HA),
and will provide data and information on the status and quality of MTPTC's maintenance
operations, providing benchmarks against maintenance operations and capability can be
measured. Also with Credit 2691-HA support, the Government should be able to: adopt
the development of sustainable user charges mechanisms for funding road maintenance;
receive training for its technical, administrative and managerial personnel; and carry out its
planned reorganization. Its success will depend decisively upon a very strong
determination from the Government to enforce them, together with a close and tight
supervision from the Bank.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
66.   The following sector-related and project specific lessons could be derived from this
project's implementation.
Sector Lessons
(a)   In the case of countries like Haiti, with overwhelming social and
macroeconomic problems, an overall Development plan should be



17
established wherein the Transport sector would be an instrumental
component to facilitate the Government's objectives.
b)    In view of the socioeconomic conditions and the scarce financial resources
of Haiti, the transport infrastructure should assure the physical integrity of
the country's network, through a careful planning process in order to
optimize the funds assignment.
c)    Labor-intensive methods utilized by small and medium contractors
constitute a suitable tool to rnitigate unemployment while achieving
acceptable rehabilitation and maintenance work.
Project Lessons
(a)   The implementing agency should be familiar with Bank procurement
procedures. In case of institutional weaknesses, early specific technical
assistance should be included in the project to avoid delays. Prior to
awarding works contracts, contractor's qualifications should be carefully
reviewed.
(b)   Adequate coordination among different implementing agencies should be
assured to avoid conflicts, such as those in the project between
PAN/SEMANAH and DDT/SCCV concerning land allocation and axle
control respectively.
(c)   Accounting systems of the various implementing agencies should be
compatible and designed with proper technical procedures to facilitate an
appropriate foliow up and subsequent audits.
(d)   The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) should be given the financial means
and personnel continuity to perform efficiently its task.
(e)   The amount of counterpart funds should be correctly assessed at the time
of the appraisal, and if necessary lowered to be within the Borrower's real
possibilities.
(f)   It is convenient to implement labor-intensive sub-projects in areas where
the unemployment originates, preventing migration from rural to urban
areas.



18
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial    Partial      Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                     x
Sector policies                              x
Financial objectives                                       x
Institutional development                                  x
Physical objectives                          x
Poverty reduction                                          x
Gender concerns                                                            x
Other social objectives                                                    x
Environmental objectives                                   x
Public sector management                                   x
Private sector development                                 x
C. Bank Performance             Highly                     Highly       Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory Satisfactory UnSatisfactory
Identification                                                             x
Preparation assistance                                                     x
Appraisal                                                                  x
Supervision                                 x
D. Borrower performance           Highly         Marginally           Deficient
satisfactory    Satisfactory                         I
Preparation                                        x
Implementation                                                         x
Covenant compliance                                                    x
Operation (if applicable)        NA               NA                  NA
Assessment of outcome         Highly    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly
Satisfactory                              Unsatisfactory
x



19
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CRED1TS
Loan/credit title             Purpose                 Year of    Status
_ _ _ _ _ _ lI    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   approval  l
Preceding operations
1. Fifth Highway  Upgrading and paving of 54 km of the   1978    Completed
Project Credit 807-  Northern Plain Area, replacing two
HA                bridges and improving three pilot coastal
shipping ports. US$ 15.0 million.
2. Port Project   Civil works in Cap Haitien. Seven other    1981    Completed
Credit 1121-HA    coastal ports were rehabilitated or
constructed. US$ 11.0 million co-
financed by KFW.
3. Sixth Highway    Rehabilitation of 57 bridges and other  1982    Completed
Project Credit 1220- drainage structures. Rehabilitation and
HA                 strengthening 100 km of the Northern
Road. Acquisition of equipment to
expand SEPRRN. Program on weight
and dimension control for vehicles.
Contemporary operations
1. Urban          Pilot Road Maintenance Program using   1983    Completed
Development Project local contractors and village
Credit 1338/SFI-HA  communities.
Following operations
1. Road Maintenance Bridge and Road rehabilitation works.  1995    Ongoing
and Rehabilitation    Periodic and routine maintenance works
Project Credit 2691- to be carried out by local firms, local
HA                communities and MTPTC's force
account. Institutional strengthening,
including the restructuring of the
MTPTC.



20
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle             Date planned        Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                              _                    December 1984
Preparation                                 _                      March 1985
Appraisal                                                           July 1985
Negotiations                                                     December 1986
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                           NA
Board presentation                                               February 3, 1987
Signing                                                         February 12, 1987
Effectiveness                                                    March 25, 1987
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Project completion                            December 31,        June 30, 1996
1990
Credit closig                                                   'October 31, 1996
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND
ACTUAL
(in US$ million)
FY           87  88   89   90   91   92   93   94   95   96
Appraisal Estimate    2.4  6.1   6.1  3.3  2.1
Actual               3.09  6.45  13.14  16.08  18.78  18.81  1S.65  18.65 18.51  22.35
Actual as % of       129  76   90   90   94   94   93   93  93   112
Estimate
Note: the higher actual vs. appraisal disbursement is due to the favorable SDR exchange rate.



21
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
No key indicators were developed for project implementation at the time of Credit
preparation.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
No key indicators were developed for project operation at the time of Credit preparation.



22
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study            Purpose as defined at        Status     Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. DDT's        DDT's organizational structure,  Completed  Study not
Institutional and  including job description and            implemented in either
technical       reclassification of its professional       fields, institutional
strengthening.    positions, would be reviewed in light     and technical.
of its expanding responsibilities and
to improve authority and distribution
work delegation. The technical part
of the study, addressed to DDT's
branch on planning matters (SEP)
was also included, comprising
several techniques on road planning,
and feasibility studies.
2. Training on    Improvement of labor intensive  Completed. Significant. A
road maintenance  methods by training SEPRRN's              substantial part of
based in labor    staff.                                    road maintenance in
intensive methods.                                          secondary and
departamental roads
were carried out by
SEPRRN based on
labor intensive
methods, until, due to
low budgeting
allocation, most
1 ______________  _____________________________  __________    w orks  w ere   stopped.
3. Road         Development of Road Maintenance  Mostly     This study
maintenance     policy and planning.             completed. complements the
policy addressed                                            previous one.
to SEPRRN.
4. SEMANAH's  Develop a stronger institution by    Completed. Some impact to
institutional   means of recruiting both technical          strengthen
strengthening.    operations and training officers, and     SEMANAH by
technical assistance for operations        following the study's
and regulatory issues.                     advices, so the overall
performance
improved to some
extent. The Maritime



23
Study              Purpose as defined at          Status       Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Code and other
inspection procedures
are not approved yet.
5. Training Center Construction and furnishing of a   Design was None.
and Facilities.   training center for helmsmen and    done, but
seamen and the procurement of a list not built.
of training facilities.
6. Slip-way and    Construction of a slip-way and a   Design was None.
Yard for Boat     yard for Boat inspection.           done, but
Inspection.                                           not built.
7. Road Taxation. Review the structure and sources of  Completed. To be implemented
funding expenditures on roads and               under the ongoing
recommend strategies to define,                Project (Credit 2691-
revise and implement funding                   HA).
sources to obtain and collect
revenues enough to fully finance
road expenditures.
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                    (US$M)
Category               Local IForeign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
L. Civil works for Parts A and B   X4.32     12.82    17.14      2.14    15.71    17.85
2. Goods for Part A                    0.07     1.37     1.44    0.00     0.97    0.97
3-A.Technica Assistac for Prts A and B.  0.43   2.52    2.95    1L29      4.39     5.68
3-B Technical Assistance for Part C    0.02     0.22    0.24     0.00     0.41,    0.41
ikotu aylse tOSl                                    _      MU                   5-3-31
Contingencies                       0.48     1.75                             _
TOTAL COST                         5.32   18.18   2
Based on Pari-passu estimated in SAR aRd following amendment.



24
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimate
(USSM)                      (US$M)
Source             Local  Foreign               Local  Foreign
Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
[DA                              1.33    18.67    20.00               21.48    21.48
Government of Haiti              4.00               4.00     3.43               3.43
Total                            5.33    18.67    24.00      3.43     21.48    25.33
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFITS
Cost Overruns, Rate of Return
Cost (US$'000)         Economic Rate of Return
Project Component              __RR %)
Actual                     Actual
Planned   Actual   as % of  Planned  Actual  as % of
Planned                    Planned
A. Drainage Structures                                                                     I
1. Jernmie - Moron                  450.9    423.8        94      45.2    48.1       106
2. Dame Marie - Anse d'Hainault     378.7    395.4        104     81.3    77.9        96
3. Cavaillon - Barraderes           274.4    362.7        132     87.3    66.0        76
4. Jacmel - Cayes                   389.8    515.2        132     24.1    18.2        75
5. Carref Thomazeau - Mirebalais   1,251.6  1,036.6       83      24.0    19.0        79
6. St. Raphael - Pignon            1,338.2  1,255.5       94       16.2    17.3      107
7. Carref. Liberte - Pont Massacre  906.4    721.9         80      16.8    17.1      102
8. Carref. Menard - St. Raphael     977.7  1,356.3       139      33.8    24.4        72
9. Limbe - Port Margot              559.9    503.7        90      20.4    22.7       111
10. Port Margot - Borgne             116.5    109.4        94      36.2    37.5       104
11. Port de Paix - St. Lous du Nord   1,638.1   1,283.0    78      33.9    38.3       113
B. Bridge Construction                                        _
1. Fer-a-Cheval bridge            1,850.0  2,167.3               120.2    87.3        73
2. Guayamouc bridge                1,750.0  2,622.2                18.3    13.8       75
C.  Road Rehabilitation
1. Gonaives - Cap Haitien         4,956.7  6,403.9       129        28       19       68
EER Project                                             ...    38.5    30.4        79



25
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
geeent   Setion         Covenat  Sta        Odia    Reviled   Declpdosn of Coveant                               Commnts
Cb                 F    FWUM
______                           Date      Date
2.02 (b)     1          C       08/12/94              The Borrower shall open and nuintain in dollars a  In full compliance.
Special Accoutt in a conmnercial bank.
2.03         10         C                             The Closing Date shall be June 30,1991 or such later  The Closing date was extendedtwice: first to
date as IDA shall establish.                    June 30, 1992; and then, when the credit was
restarted by mid 1995, The Closing Date was
__________  __________           ________    _______   __________________________________________      extended   to   June  30,  1996.
3.01 (a) (i)   10       CP                            The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of the  Co-plied partially.
Project through DDT and SEMANAH, respectively.
3.01 (a) (ii)   10      CP                            The Borrower shall cause APN to carry out Part C.    Only the preliminary studies and the alternative
solutions were carried out. The detailed
engineering design was not achieved.
3.01 (a) (iii)  10      CP                            The Borrower shall provide all the facilities required    Complied.
for the Project
3.01 (b)     10         C                             The Borrower shall relend to APN USS 280,000 for   In f61l compliance.
Part C.
3.01 (d)     10         CD                            The Borrower shall follow the Implementation    Complied
ProgrranL
3.03 (a)     3          C                             The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a  In full compliance.
Project Account in the Banque de la Republique
d'Haiti.
3.03 (b)     3          C                             The Borrower shall deposit in the Project Account an   In fu6l compliance.
amount in Gourdes equivalent to USS 400,000
3.03 (c)     3          NC                            The Borrower shall replenish the Project Account so    Not complied due to lack of counterpart funds.
that the available amount do not fall bellow of
counterpart funds required to meet two months of
estimated expenditure.
3.04 (a)     S          C                             The BorTower shall establish and maintain a Project   In full compliance.
Coordination Unit (PCU) composed by the Directors
of DDT, SEMANAH, APN and a senior
__l_selltative ofthe MEF.
3.04 (b)     5          C                             The Borrower shall appoint a full-time Project  In full compliance.
Implementation Officer (PIO).
3.04 (c)     5          CP                            The Borrower shall provide resources for the PCU.  Complied partially.
3.05 (a) (i)   3        NC                            The Borrower shall properly maintain the road   Not complied. Lack of fnds and low budgeting
network.
3.05 (a) (ii    3       PC                            The Borrower shall properly maintain the road   Partially complied.
_maintenance equiponent
3.05 (b)     3          NC                            The Borrower shall make available to DDT the yearly  Partially complied in light of eaergency
amount required for purposes of section 3.05 (a),  context
which unless otherwise agreed by IDA, shall not be
lower than: (i) USS 8.000.000 equivalent for FY
19S8; (ii) USS 9.700.000 equivalent for FY 1989;
(iii) USS 10.600.000 equivalent for FY 1990; and (iv)
USS 11.800.000 equivalent for FY 1991.
3.05 (c)     5          CP                            Not later than June 30, 1987 and every June 30  When the Project restarted in 1995, this
thereafter, the Borrower shall fumish to IDA for its   requirement was fulfilled by the Borrower.
comments, the program to be carried out under Part
A.5 ofthe Project, including the technical assistance
required for such program, and the selection of sites
where the works will be carried out Promptly
thereafter carry out such program taking into account
the c   ents made by IDA
3.06 (a)     9          C                             The Borrower shall, commencing in 1987 and not  Complied.



26
greekeat  Sectin        Coveatt Status  Orgnba    Revied   Desrption of Cove                                      Commebts
Cbm                 Flfl  FPal
Data       Date
later than June 30 each year, inform IDA of any
propoal ofthe Borrower to modify the 19S7-1991
Investment Program
3.06 (c)     3          C                             Not incur any capital expenditure (odher tan those  No investment in lGpt of emergency context
included in the 1987-1991 Investmt Program),
unleaa the Borrower shall have detenmined to the
tfisfation of IDA that the proposed expditue are
econonically justified and has secured adequate
finncing for such expeeaiture induding the recurrent
costa associated with it
3.07 (a) (i)   3        NC                            The Borrower shall enwre that the weig  of vehicles   Corpliance has not been achieved due to
using the Borrower's public roads network shall nor    political problems and lack of police upposLt
exceed 18 tons per single axle or a totl weight of 40
tons per vebicle.
3.07 (a) (ii)   3       NC                            Not laterthan March 31, 1987, the Borrower shall  Partially complied with. That anount was not
provide DDT with an amount equivalent to tiSS   provided to DDT. Even though the pesn in
240.000, and appoint on a full-tine baais, a qualified   charge ofthe weight control was appointed, the
chief for DDT's weight control services         task could not succeed given the denial of police
suppot
3.07 (b)     9          NC                            The Borrower shall not later than June 30, each year    Not comnplied because of lack of funding in
during Project Imnplementation, review with IDA the   light of emergency context
actions taken or to be taken for the enforcement of
such axle load restrictions
3.08         3          NC                            The Borrower shall provide the amounts required by    Partially complied wit. After the embargo, the
SEMANAH for the carrying out of Part B ofthe    project was reactivated by mnid 1995 to carry
Project and which, unless otherwise agreed by IDA,    out only labor-intensive work
shall not be lower than: (a) USS 800,000 equivalent
for FY 1988; (b) USS 900,000 equivalent for FY
1989; (c) USS 1,000,000 equivalent for FY 1990; and
(d) USS 1,200,000 equivalent for FY 1991.
4.01 (a)     I          CP                            The 0orrower shall maintain or cause to be      Some problems arose due to inconpVabilities
maintaed separate records and accounts adequate to  between different accounting systems, and some
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices   omissions and mistakes were identified by the
and operations, resources and expenditurs, in respect  auditor.
of Paris A and B ofthe Project; and cause APN to do
______  _______  _____        the same in respect of Past C ofthe Projed
4.01 (b)     1          C                             The Borrower shall have the accounts referred to in   In full compliance
pars (a) ofthis section, for each fiscal year audited,
all in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and furnish IDA not later than four
months after the end of eacb such year, a certified copy
__________    ___________    _______ _  of the reports of each  audits.
4.02         10         NC                            The Borrower shall cause APN to, not laterthan  Comnplied with Afterthe restoration ofthe
October 1, 1987, put into effect the tariffi and charges Govenment led by Mr. Aristide, the new tariffs
for the ue of ntennational ports contained in an  were put into effect in ApriL 1995..
APN's report
4.03         9          NC                            The Borrower shall (a): not later than July 1, 1987,    The proposed study on cabotage port tariffs was
fumish to IDA for its comments the schedule oftariffs  never done. Subsequently, they were not put
and charges to be applied by APN for the use of  into effect in light of emergency contexL
cabotage ports; and (b): put irito effect, not later than
October 1, 1987, such schedule oftariffs and charges 
1. Covenant Type:
1 =  Accounts/Audits                                  8 =  Indigenous people
2  =  Financial performance/revenue                   9  =  Monitoring review and



27
generation from beneficiaries         reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds 10 = Project implementation not
covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding              11 = Sector or cross-sector budgetary
5 = Management aspects of the project or  or other resources
executive agency                12 = Sector or cross-sector
6 = Environmental covenants               policy/regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement         13= Other
2. Present Status:
C     - Complied with         CP    - Complied with Partially
CD    - Compliance after Delay       NYC   - Not Yet Due
NC    - Not Complied with



28
LE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                 Actual
Weeks  US$('000)  Weeks         US$('000)
Through       NA        NA        21.2          39.7
appraisal
Appraisal-     NA        NA        48.4         139.1
B oard     _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Board-       NA         NA       18.9          34.5
Effectiveness
Supervision    NA         NA       51.9          104.0
Completion     NA         NA       0.75          1.5
Total       NA         NA       141.15       318.8
NA: not available; Appraisal through Board includes time/dollars spent on re-
appraising the project in FY 1994.



29
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES MISSIONS
l T   -      I  -    I                    Performance Rating
Stage of project    Month/  Number  Days in  Specialized staff  Implementation    Development  Types of
cycle         year       of      field       skills           status         Objectives   problems
persons            represented
Through appraisal    10/84      2         7    ECN, PO
Appraisal through    7/85       7        10    LO,        PO,
board approval                                  ECN(2),  FA,
ENG(2)
Board approval       4/86;       2        10    ECN, FA, LO
through effectiveness   6/86     1        8
Supervision          5/87       3         9    ECN, HENG               1                1
9/87       2        10    ECN, HENG              2                1        FA
4/88       1        13    HENG                   2                1        FA
11/88      1        12    HENG                    2               1        FA
5/89       1        12    HENG                   2                1       FA
4/91       3        13    FA, HENG,              2                2        FA, PM,
7/91       1        5    ECN                     2                2        CC
9/95       2        4    ECN                     S                S        FA, PM,
3/96       1        4    HENG,                   S                S        CC
2        4    UTENG                   S                S       FA, PM,
UTENG                                           CC
UTENG,                                          FA, CC
MENG                                            FA, CC
Completion           9/96       2        13    UTENG, C
Total                           31       134                                               . .       . .
E        = Economist                          FA      = Funds Availability
ENG      = Engineer                           PM      = Project Management
LO       = Loan Officer                       CC    = Covenant Compliance
FA       = Financial Analyst
BENG   = Highway Engineer
MENG   = Municipal Engineer
UTENG  = Urban Transport Engineer
C     = Consultant



30
APPENDIX A
Closing Aide Memoire
(incorporates Borrower's Contribution for ICR)



31
REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI
Ministere des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications
VIle PROJET DE TRANSPORT
(Credit 1756 - HIA)
Mission de finalisation du Projet du 7 au 17 septembre 1996
1. INTRODUCTION
1.      Une mission de l'Association Intemnationale de Developpement
(IDA), composee de Messieurs Pierre E. Sooh, Fernando Montenegro et Jose
M. Bacigalupo, a visite HaYti du 7 au 17 septembre 1996 afin d'evaluer les
resultats du Projet, d'activer et d'assister le MTPTC dans la mise au point du
rapport de finalisation du projet cite en titre.
2.      Les objectifs de la mission etaient les suivants:
a) rassembler toutes les donnees et informnations necessaires a l'elaboration
du Rapport de Finalisation du Projet (RFP);
b) discuter avec l'emprunteur et tous les organismes d'execution du projet
des objectifs, resultats et impacts dudit projet;
c) conseiller et assurer un soutien a l'emprunteur dans sa contribution au
RFP ; et
d) reviser le plan d'execution du Gouvemement pour les investissements
effectues dans le cadre du projet (l'annexe 1 recapitule le plan
d'entretien et d'operation des travaux executes dans le cadre du projet).
3.      La mission est reconnaissante pour l'assistance et la cooperation
foumies par le Ministere des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications
(MTPTC) et son Staff, l'Autorite Portuaire Nationale (APN) et le Service
Maritime et de Navigation d'Haiti (SEMANAH). La liste des personnes
rencontrees durant la mission est donnee dans l'annexe 2.



32
2. BILAN GENERAL ET RESUME
4. La mission a analys6 les objectifs du projet et a tire les enseignements
suivants:
a)Ies objectifs physiques ont et remplis dans le domaine routier alors que
le domaine maritime n'a pas et couvert;
b)F'Assistance Technique a ete presente durant la periode et la partie des
etudes ayant trait au renforcement institutionnel a ete effectuee. Mais, il y a
lieu de constater que toutes les recommandations techniques et
manageriales de ces etudes n'ont pas ete appliquees et le renforcement
institutionnel espere n'a pas eu lieu;
c)les avantages du Projet ont ete moindres et les ratios de couit eleves dus
aux facteurs suivants:
. delais non tenus;
= derapages de colats;
- avantages  sur  les  cofits  d'exploitation  moindres  que  prevus
consecutivement a une baisse generale de I'activite economique en
relation avec 1'embargo.
Plus de details seront donnes dans les chapitres suivants ainsi que dans le
RFP qui est actuellement en cours d'elaboration.
3. STATUT DU PROJET
3.1 Routes et ponts
3.1.1 Composante physique
5.        Remise en etat de 38 ouvrages d'art. Ce programme a ete effectue
sur les routes nationales, departementales et secondaires (1987-1990). Sur les
huit lots du contrat, six (6) ont ete realises par le consortium SINTRA-MARKA
et deux (2) inities par la finne haitienne TECINA S.A et acheves par le
consortium SINTRA-MARKA.



33
6.        Construction de 2 grands ponts. Ces deux ouvrages d'art ont ete
realises dans le Departement du Centre (1990). Ils sont situes respectivement a
Hinche (pont Guayamouc) et a Mirebalais (pont sur le Fer-a-cheval). Le
controle et la supervision des differents chantiers etaient assures par le Service
de Construction des Routes (SCR) assiste de la firme DIWI International. La
firme haitienne ARTEC Engineering a participe egalement au controle et 'a la
supervision.
7.        Remise en etat de 96 Km de routes. La Route Nationale N 1 a ete
rehabilitee entre GonaYves et Cap Haitien. Les travaux qui avaient debute en
1983 ont et6 arretes en avril 1987 et 1'entreprise adjudicataire (Vorbes et
Howard) a vu son contrat resilie apres avoir realise 20 Km. Apres de nombreux
arrets de chantier, les travaux ont redemarre avec 1'entreprise Fougerolles. Ces
travaux ont ete interrompus suite 'a une carence du maitre de l'ouvrage. A la
suite de negociations avec 1'etat haftien les travaux ont pu reprendre suite a la
signature d'un avenant au contrat. Des travaux complementaires s'etant avere
necessaire, un cofinancement a 6te obtenu aupres de Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique de France (CCEF). La recherche de financement
additionnel a ete occasionnee par la deterioration accrue de la route pendant
cette longue periode (7ans). Le MTPTC a receptionn6 les travaux complets en
decembre 1990.
8.        SEPPRN. Les travaux 'a Haute Intensite de Main-d'ceuvre ont tout
d'abord et inities par le Service d'entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier
National (SEPPRN) et les conseils communautaires (CAMP: Community
Action Maintenance Plan). Cela a ete effectue avec la collaboration de 56
communautes villageoises. Durant cette premiere phase, environ 666 Km ont pu
etre realises avec l'appui financier de l'IDA qui a contribue a l'achat des
equipements et de l'outillage n6cessaires. A l'issue de cette premiere 6tape, ce
type -de travaux a pu continuer de fagon satisfaisante a travers l'unite UC-
HIMO.
9.        Les couits de cette composante sont les suivants
Remise en etat des 38 ouvrages d'art:   7 652 214 USD
Construction de 2 ponts:                4 692 368 USD
Remise en etat de 96 Km de routes:      19 871 457 FRF
5 681 190 USD
Equipement SEPPRN                         777 383 USD
Etudes et supervision Routes/Ponts      2 101 754 USD



34
10.       Les enseignements tires du projet sont principalement les
suivants:.
a) les modalit6s de prequalification ou de postqualification devraient
prendre en compte la taille des projets afm d'eviter 1'engagement de
societes n'ayant pas la capacite financiere ou technique;
b) le Gouvemement doit pouvoir assurer et renforcer le financement de
sa contrepartie. Simultanement, la Banque devrait pouvoir mieux
analyser pendant 1'evaluation les risques emanant de la contrepartie
locale. Un autre montant aurait pu etre recommande;
c) un manque de delegation au sein du MTPTC  a alourdi les
procedures ; et
d) la Banque doit renforcer sa diligence vis a vis des requetes de non-
objection.
3.1.2 Renforcement institutionnel
11.       Le programme d'Assistance Technique a realise les elements
suivants:
a) appui institutionnel a Ia DDT par le BCEOM;
b) programmation des Transports par l'appui d'un economiste des
Transports du BCEOM au sein du SPE;
c) planification de 1'entretien et de l'amelioration du reseau routier ainsi
que la formation sur les travaux HIMO par Louis Berger; et
d) politique d'entretien au sein du SEPPRN par L. Austin.
Les etudes ont et effectuees et la Banque a juge la qualite acceptable. La mise
en ceuvre des etudes et du renforcement institutionnel n'a pas et completement
realisee.
3.1.3 Travaux A Haute Intensite de Main-d'ceuvre
12.       Les Travaux a Haute Intensit6 de Main-d'ceuvre ont et6 d6velopp6s
a partir d'un projet pilote visant a promouvoir ce type de travaux. Comme nous
I'avons souligne au paragraphe N 8, 666 Km ont ete realises dans la premiere
phase par le SEPPRN.
13.       HIMO/Phase I. A   partir de mai 1991, dans le cadre des
programmes de transport et de developpement urbain, la Banque a decide



35
d'affecter les ressources restantes des credits 1338-HA, SFI-HA et 1756-HA a
ce nouveau programme de travaux a haute intensite de main-d'ceuvre. Cela
devait permettre de payer:
a) les materiaux;
b) I'equipement et l'outillage;
c) le carburant ; et
d) les heures supplementaires du personnel.
Ce programme a ete une experience reussie dont le developpement est
recommande pour expansion dans le cadre du credit 2691-HA. Alors que
l'objectif premier de ce programme etait la creation d'emplois, un second
objectif etait la mise au point d'outils performants a utiliser pour les
programmes triennaux urbains et interurbains. L'experience realisee a ce jour
en Haiti indique que cette facon de travailler appliquee a la rehabilitation
permet d'obtenir des resultats durables.
14.       Les projets suivants ont et realis6s
a) projet a caractere HIMO
- pavage de voies en adoquins;
* traitement des ravines et conservation de sol au  Morne   -
H6pital;
- rehabilitation d'equipement de voirie 'a Port-au-Prince
- curage du reseau de drainage de Port au Prince
* travaux de voirie a Dame Marie
* pavage de la route Milot-Choiseul-lots 1 et 2
b) autres projets
* amenagement du bassin versant de la petite riviere de Nippes.
* protection route nationale 2 PK 143
* betonnage de chauss6e de la route Gonaives- Jean Rabel
* pose de buses sur la route Gonaives - Jean Rabel
15.       HlMO/Phase II: Cinq (5) projets ont ete acheves sous le credit
1756-HA. Aussi, le MTPTC a commence a executer quatre (4) nouveaux
projets qui seront acheves dans le cadre du Cr6dit - 2691 - HA. Le projet a aussi
finance l'achat de materiaux pour executer deux (2) projets additiornels qui
seront realis6s dans le cadre du Credit - 2691 - HA.
L'annexe 3 recapitule l'ensemble des projets executes ainsi que l'emploi g6nere
dans le cadre de la phase II/HIMO.



36
16.        Les enseignements tires du projets sont principalement les
suivants :.
a) l'Unite UC-HIMO initialise les travaux alors que la Direction
Departementale ou le service conceme assure la supervision. Selon
les besoins locaux, on doit pouvoir considerer la possibilite de
recruter un coordonnateur local afin de renforcer les capacites locales
de coordination;
b) la necessite d'un renforcement de la coordination entre la cellule UC-
HIMO et les entites assurant la supervision;
c) le fond de roulement doit s 'adapter aux types de travaux HIMO; et
d) un renforcement des travaux de type HIMO en zone rural permettrait
d'attenuer les migrations vers la capitale que les travaux effectues en
zone urbaine accroissent.
3.2 Services maritimes
3.2.1 Cale de halage et chantier
17.        Les etudes ont ete r6alisees. Les travaux de genie civil n'ont pu etre
r6alises et les financements ont et affectes au secteur routier.
3.2.2 Centre de formation
18.        Les etudes ont ete realisees. Les travaux de genie civil n'ont pu etre
realis6s et les financements ont ete affectes au secteur routier.
3.2.3 Assistance technique
19.        SEMANAH. Les officiers et techniciens ont et6 formes. L'expert
en formation et 1'expert en cabotage ont ete fournis mais l'etude sur les tarifs du
cabotage n'a pas et realisee. La Mission constate quelques ameliorations dans
la gestion du SEMANAH.
Un conflit foncier opposant le SEMANAH  et 1'APN  a compromis la
materialisation des projets concemant le centre de formation et le chantier
naval.



37
Les couts de 3.2.1, 3.2.2. et 3.2.3. se sont eleves a 991 805 USD.
3.3 Gestion des ports
22.       Port de Jeremie. L'identification et 1'etude de faisabilite ont ete
realisees mais les etudes d'execution n'ont pu se concretiser.
Les cou'ts des etudes se sont eleves a 303 304 USD.
4. DECAISSEMENTS
A la date d'au,jourd'hui, 16 545 722 DTS ont ete decaisses. 54 278 DTS n'ont
pas ete encore decaisses. La part globale des decaissements s'e1eve donc a
99,67 % du total du pret.
Dans ces montants est inclue la somme de 132 187 DTS du compte special qui
doit toujours etre justifiee.
Le Gouvernement devrait justifier ces depenses et preparer une requete pour la
partie du pret non decaisse avant le 31 octobre 1996.
Port au Prince, le 17 septembre 1996
Ingenieur cques G   RIEL
Directeu Genera,  TPTC
Ingenieur Fernando MONTENEGRO
IDA






38
ANNEXE 1
PLAN D'OPERATION ET D'ENTRETIEN
Le Ministere des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications prendra les mesures
n6cessaires pour appliquer ce Plan d'operation dans le but de s'assurer que les travaux civils,
construits ou rehabilites dans le VIIe Projet de Transport sous le Pret 1756-HA, seront
adequatement entretenus. Dans ce but la rnise A disposition de fonds pour les agences
d'execution sera prise en consideration dans le Budget Annuel pour la(les) prochaine(s)
annee(s)fiscale(s).
Les details pour ces besoins d 'entretien pour chaque composante, entretien courant et
periodique, sont montres ci-dessous.
a) Rehabilitation des ponts mineurs et des structures de drainage
Le cofit de l'entretien courant, par consequent estime avec les pratiques usuellement utilises,
est d'environ 38 000 USD/an. A cette somme sera ajoute l'entretien periodique, estim6 A un
*quivalent annuel de 38 000 USD/annee, totalisant des flux financiers annuels de 76 000
USD.
b) Construction de pont
De facon identique au chapitre precedent, les besoins financiers pouvant satisfaire l'entretien
courant et periodique sont:
1) Pont du Fer A Cheval
Entretien Courant : 4000 USD/an
Entretien Priodique: 4 000 USD/an
2) Pont de Guayamouc
Entretien Courant   4 000 USD/an
Entretien Priodique: 4 000 USD/an



39
c) Rehabilitation de la Route Nord entre Gonafves et Cap-Haftien
La rehabilitation de cette route a debute sous le Vie projet routier et a ete achevee sous le VIle
Projet de Transport. Une periode de sept (7) annees s'est ecoulee entrainant la mise en place
d'un nouveau programme de rehabilitation qui commencera en mai de 1'ann6e prochaine, sous
le credit 2691-HA.
Pour la raison exprimee precedemment, seulement des travaux d'entretien a caractere
d'urgence ont pu etre realises par le MTPTC avant les travaux de rehabilitation. Un
financement d'environ 250 USD/Km seront fourmis pour ces travaux (total de 24 000 USD
pour les 96 Km r6habilites).
Lorsque les travaux de rehabilitation seront acheves, 1'entretien courant sera pris en charge
par l'unite UC-HIMO pour les deux (2) prochaines annees avant d'etre relay6 par l'entit6
chargee de 1'entretien au sein du MTPTC.
Les charges financieres necessaires a 1'entretien courant sont d'environ 1 000 USD/an/Km,
alors que 1'entretien periodique necessite pour chaque periode quinquennale la sonrme de
5000 USD/Km. Les financement en equivalant annuel sont de l'ordre de 2 000 USD/Km pour
une prise en compte raisonnable des deux types d'entretien. Des lors que 96 Km de routes ont
6t6 rehabilites, I'allocation globale necessaire pour un entretien adequat s'eleve a 192 000
USD/An.
d) Travaux realises par I'uniti HIMO
Les taches d'entretien necessaires pour les travaux executes dans le progranme HIMO seront
sous la responsabilite des agences sp6cifiques auxquelles elles appartiennent. Dans le tableau 1,
les projets executes, leurs agences specifiques et les couits d'entretien courant et penodique
(equivalence annuelle) necessaires a un maintien durable de l'investissement sont indiqu6s.
e) Sources de financement
Une prograrnmation budgetaire adequate afin de garantir la durabilite des action d'entretien
courant et periodique est prevue dans le budget national, selon le type de travaux de genie civil &
accomplir et les operations d'entretien necessaires.
Le tableau suivant montre les travaux de genie civil realises sous le VIIe Projet de Transport, les
entrees budgetaires et les financements correspondants afin de permettre le financement du plan
d'operation propose.



Sheeti
Tableau No.1                                                            1
Preyision pour Entretien Courant et Periodique - HIMO Phases I et 11
N- |                        Projet                         1      Service        | Entretien Courant   Entretien Periodique          Total
HIMO-Phase I
1 B-2 Travaux de voirie et Grand'Rue do Dame-Marie              AEADMA                           1000                   1000             2000
2  B421 Rehabilitation de ia route Milot-Choiseuil - Lot 1        ISPAN                           800                     800            1600
3  8-421 Rehabilitation de la route Milot-Choiseuil - Lot 2       ISPAN                          2000                   2000             2000
4  C433.1 Betonnage de chaussee Gonaives-Jean Rabel              SEPRRN                           869                     869            1738                                 0
__HlMO-Phase II                      ____________
5  Rehabilitatlion Thomassique-Cerca DDC                        SEPRRN                         17000                   17000           34000
6  Rue Fosses Leogane_                                          SEPRRN                            913                    913             1826
7  Rehabilitation St. Joseph, Rempart et Magasine d'Etat        SEPRRN                           1620                   1620             3240
Page 1



41
Travaux                                            Montant            Entree    Montant    % de
necessaire       budg6taire   de P'entr6e         I'entr6e
budgetaim budgetaire
Budget 1996
USD                              USD
(1995-
1996)-
a) Travaux de drainage
Courants                                        38 000        282,341,371,   867 800               4.4
______ ______    372,373       _ _  _  _ _     _ _  _  _  _
Pnriodiques                                     38 000        282,341,371,   867 800               4.4
________ ________ ________ ________3 7 2 ,3 7 3                    _   _  _ _     _ _  _ _  _ _
b) Ponts
Courants                                        8 000         282,341,371,   867 800               0.9
_____________________________               _ :   .372,373                        .
Periodiques                                     8 000         282,341,371,   867 800               0.9
372,373       __ ___
c)  Route Gonalves - Cap Haitien
Urgence                                         24 000        282,341,371,   867 800               2.8
372,373
d) Travaux de rehabilitation 1-IMO
Courants                                       24 200         282,341,371,   867 800               2.8
Periodiques_________________                   24 200         28_ 372,373        867 800           2.
P6riodiques                                     24 200        282,341,371,   867 800               2.8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  1__ _ _ _ _   3 7 2 ,3 7 3   __ _ __ _   1__ _ _ _



42
ANNEXE 2
LISTE DES PERSONNES RENCONTREES
Ingenieur Jacques GABRIEL      Directeur General        M.T.P.T.C.
Ingenieur Gary JEAN            Directeur des Transports  M.T.P.T.C.
Ingenieur Raymond DELINOIS        D.D.T                     M.T.P.T.C.
Ingenieur Evelt EVEILLARD          Responsable UC- HIMO   M.T.P.T.C.
Monsieur Antoine LAURENT             Consultant  Financier/ M.T.P.T.C.
H[MO
Ingenieur Wilson EDOUARD          Responsable    technique M.T.P.T.C.
UC-RERN
Ingenieur Georges DUVALSAINT    Chef du S.P.E./D.D.T.       M.T.P.T.C.
Ingenieur   Charles   RAYMOND Chef de service               S.C.R.
PIERRE
Ingenieur Frantz ISIDORE          Responsable section routes S.C.R.
primaires
Ingenieur Frantz DUROSEAU         Assistant Chef de service   S.E.P.P.R.N.
Ingenieur Venel PIERRE             Directeur General        S.E.M.A.N.A.H.
Ingenieur Jose BARTHELEMY          Directeur Technique      A.P.N.
Ingenieur Duquepsonne              Directeur General        A.P.N.
EXTRA






43
ANNEXE 3



A - PROJETS EXECUTES TOTALEMENT SUR LE CREDIT 1756-HA
No |           TITRE                        DUREE              1    COUT REEL                      COUTPREVU                  NBRE D'EMPLOIS
_________________ l                    (GDES)                       (GDES)                        CREES
Curage des Ouvrages de Drai-       4 mois (80 jours)              6,067,618.00                  6,269,320.00                  78977 Hj
nage le Long des Routes au
Departement de l'Ouest
Curage des Ouvrages de Drai-      5 mois (100 jours)              9,998,190.00                 10,733,473.00                   11271 H.j
nage de Port-au-Prince
Contr6le de I'Erosion au               4 mois                     2,678,135.00                  2,700,000.00                  62025 Hj                 -
Morne I'Hopital
Travaux d'Entretien sur l'Axe           2 mois                    2,292,528.00                  2,408,256.00              -   28380 Hj
L6ogane - Petit-Goave
Curage de Port-au-Prince               2 mois                     5,635,835.00                  5,976,275.00                  60855 Hj
Phase 11
TOTAL                                                   26,672,306.00                28,087,324.00                 t-41508 HIj
OBSERVATIONS:



B - PROJETS EXECUTES PARTIELLEMENT SUR LE CREDIT 1756-HA
No             TITRE                         DUREE                      COUT REEL                    COUT PREVU    1 MRE D'EMPLOIS
(GDES)                       (GDES)                        CREES
Rehabilitation Thomassique -                                       1,659,669.00                  2,410,371.00                   18695 H.j
Cerca La Source
RMhabilitation des Rues St-                                        9,764,859.00                  8,595,290.50                    9941 Hj
Joseph, Magasin de l'Etat et
Remparts (Croix-des-Bossales
- La Saline)
.,                                                                                                                     ss~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
Rehabilitation de la Rue des                                       1,684,897.00                  3,286,832.00
Fosses (Nord) a Lcogane
Amenagement de Talus et de                                         1,218,505.00                  3,169,491.40
Berge a la Rue Celcis au
Canape-Vert
TOTAL                                                    14,327,930.00                17,461,984.90
OBSERVATIONS : Ces travaux se poursuivent. Les depenses a partir du Ier juillet 1996 sont effectu6es a partir du Credit 2691 -HA.



46
P.E. Sooh
A\ICR-CORR.DOC
April 10, 1997 3:59 PM



IBRD 19402
,^AC   J   us o co  ,  t  NORD   QUEST -- AIX
HAJTI                         HAITI                           s                           'HAIT
TRANSPORT VIl PROJECT                                                                                                           R.I7e 2                              1100
COMPONENTS UNDER PREVIOUS PROJECTS                            1OJECT'
ROAD REHABILITATED UNOER SIXTH                               ROAO IMOXVEUENTS                                        GONAIVE                                 ES                                     T I
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                      .        O OTI.MPOVEMENT(
ROAOS REHABILITATED UNOER FIFTH                    721-01    BBIOCERERABIUTAnIONlSB                           \ 5t                                     Ifl-- 1                 7           CO79U  Sc,...
HIGHWAY PROJECT
BRIDGES REHABILITATED UNDER SIXTH             N3   NEW Bos                                                                             A RTIBO           NIES
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                       .
BRIDGES CONSTRUCTED UNDER FIFTH
-        HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                          '-" NME  G,.dU
+       BRIDGES REPAIRED                                             ROUTENUMBERS                                    G.d SoI'.|'
Z       BOX CULVERTS REHABILITATED                                                                                                                  A-           _
-       CONCRETE FORD                                                                                                                                                                                           c
EXISTING CABOTAGE PORTS                                                                           \I
0      lB      25      SE     O
EXISTING ROAOS                                                 KJLOAZ"EK3                                                  _K5Sear   1ft                                        IC   
NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                                                                            CENT
OLD ASPHALT ROADS                                                                                                  ,                     ..                                                        ,--_
GRAVEL ROADS
- --- - EARTH ROADS
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
-   --    INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES                                                                                                 A,
RIVERS                                                        ~                                                                                      ;         >/(                                 31oee  
- /SI A NVD                                                                                                         7AsSGlt +d}Eo:erto   
-...                                                       ub00~  II*                  ---- d
U0o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.~~~~~~~17 - C7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,7* CIUUO* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     OR            E                   
------  _ 6_BFoss\ 
r .p , 3, **   3 '   'I.,      OI   Co .                                                                                                         Ill-OSn                                ll n 
\< -arche teon d) R G R A N ~~~~~~~~~~D E-'ANS E                                            M .                                                                 0d_ Udf  E  S  T;,tO
"  > >  - >>;;at.l, ~S                                                                  .'I'
.Rh ,,  p01- .....  .                                                                                                                                                             G, 010____    ,  . U D  e7 N S T .  41
L F                                                                                                           JANUARY 1986









IMAGING
Report No.:             16493
Ti..... iR



