Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5943b-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
December 23, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization- i



Currency Equivalents
USSI         - -;ourdes (G) 5.0
G 1.0        -T JSSO. 20
G I million  -- USS200,000
SDR. 1       -  USS1.0965
Weights and Measures:
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (n)                a  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           -  O.t2 mile (mi)
I square kilomecer (km2)  -  0.336 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (m ton)       =  2,205 pounds (lb)
I cubic meter (m3)         -  1.3 cubic yards (cu yd)
Fiscal Year
October I to September 30
Abbreviations ard Acronyms
AN          -   National Airport Auchority (formerly AAIPP)
AP2I        -   National Porc Authority
CAMP        -   Community Accion Maintenance Program
CCCE        -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
DDT         -   Direction des Transports (Directorate of Trarsport)
ERR         -   Economic Rate of Return
FAC         -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral Aid)
IBRD        -   Inter.ational Back f or Reconstruction and Development
iCB         -   lnterrational Competitive Bidding
IDA         -   International Development Association
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
ILO         -   Enternational Labor Organization
[MO         -   rzternacional Maritime Organization
ILT         -   1.tercational Telecommunicarions U.ior
Kf£';       -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB         -   Local Competitive Bidding
LSBTP       -   Nacional Laboratory for Buildings and Public '.orks
XEF         -   Minnistry of Economy and Finance
XTPTC       -   Miniscry of Public Works, Transpor- and Coounuications
NTS         -   %ational Transport Study
ODN         -   Northern Regional Development Ager.cy
OPEC        -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Courntries
FCR         -   Project Complecion Report
PCU         -   Project Coordinating Unit
PPAR        -   Project Performance Audit Report
Ro-Ro       -   Roll-on/Roll-off
SCR         -   Service de Construction Rouriere (Brarch of DDT)
SEMANAH      -   Service Maritime et de Navigacior. d'Hai:i
SEP         -   Service d'Etude et Planification (Branch of DDT)
SEPRRN      -   National Permacect Road Maintenance Department (MTPTC)
SRS         -   Section des Routes Secondaires
UNDP        -   United Nations Developmeut Program
USAID       -   United States Agency for I2ternational Development



FOR OMCLFIL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAm
TRANSPORT VII PROJECr
TABUE OF COTENTS
Page No.
I.   PROJECT SUMMARY            ........................... .....................  1
II.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...........................................    3
A.   The Transport System, Priorities and the Government's Plan           3
(i)  The Transport System .....       ..........................    3
(ii)  Sector Priorities and the Government's Plan ........    3
B.   Institutional Framework .....................           4.          4
C.   The Road Subseccor ...   ...................... ..........    5
(i)  The Road Network ... ......................      ........    5
(ii)  Highway Administration and Planning           ................    5
(iii)  Road Construction and Maintenance ......        ............    6
(iv)  Expenditures and Revenues ..........................         6
(v)  Road Traffic and Axle-Load Control           .................    7
D.   The Port and Maritime Subsectors            ..........................    7
i)  Port Infrastructure ..................    ...... .    7
(ii)  Port Management .... ..... .. ..........    8
(iii)  Port Tariffs and Charges .....         ......................  8
(iv)  Maritime Services ..................................    8
E.  Main Sector Issues ..............................    9
F.  Experience with Bank Group Lending in the Sector   ............    9
G.  Bank Group Lending Strategy in the Sector ..          ................   10
III.  THE PROJECT           .....................................................   10
A.  Background      ................................................   10
B.  Project Objectives and Rationale ........... ..       ..............   10
C.  Project Description .......       .................................   11
(i)  Roads and Bridges ..................................   11
(ii)  Strengthening of Highway Administration
and Road Maintenance ......     .....................   12
(iii)  Maritime Services        ..................................   12
(iv)  Port Improvement ..       ...............................   13
D.  Project Costs and Financing . ..............o ......* ....   13
Detailed Project Cost Estimate ....... ......................   13
E.  Project Implementation ......................................   14
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Haiti during
July 8-19, 1985. The mission comprised Messrs. A. Menkir, P. Gyamfi,
D. Hill, Z. Raanan, N. Burnett (IDA) and A. Brookes (ILO Consultant). The
report has been edited by Ms. V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
III.  THE PROJECT (Continued) ..........................................   -
F.  Procurement'and Disbursement ...............................   15
G.  Project Accounts, Auditing and Monitoring .... ..............    16
H.  Economic Evaluation and Benefits ................ *........   17
I.  Risks                                                   .......    17
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS          ..........................   17
TABLES
2.1    The Road Network by District  ..................... ..........   19
2.2    Government's Total Annual Expenditure for Transport Sector ...   20
2.3    Government's Revenues from Road-User Charges ..............   21
2.4    Evolution of Fuel Retail Prices        ...............       .....   22
2.5    Vehicle Importation and Registration .....................O..   23
3.1    Drainage Structures to be Rehabilitated ......................   24
3.2    Road Maintenance Tools and Implements ........................   25
3.3    Projected Road Maintenance Program  ........................   26
3.4    Project Cost Summary ..............                  ...........   27
3.5    Summary Accounts Cost Summary        ............   .. ....-o.   28
3.6    Breakdown of Summary Accounts ...... ... .---.. ......               29
3.7    Summary Accounts, by Year ................ o .... ..........         30
3.8    Project Components, by Year       o...           ................    31
3.9    Roads and Bridges - Detailed Costs DAT/SEPRRN ...- ..........   32
3.10   Maritime Service Facilities - Detailed Costs SEMANAH/APN  .....  33
3.11   Summary Account by Project Component .........................   34
3.12   Allocation of Credit Proceeds .......  o....... .............   35
3.13   Estimate of Credit Disbursement Schedule  .....................   36
3.14   Maritime Services and Facilities, Monitoring Indicators . .....   37
3.15   Schedule of Main Events in Project Implementation ............   38
ANNEXES
1.    Transport Sector Investment Program (1986-1990)                      39
2.    Detailed Project Description                                         48
3.    Maritime Training Facilities .........                               53
4.    Inspection and Repair Facility for Small Boats          ..           55
5.    Summary of Economic Justification ............                       57
6.    Technical Assistance for Labor-Based/Equipment-Supported
Secondary Road Construction and Maintenance  .. .64



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES (Continued)
7.   APN's Financial Performance and Prospects       ....................  68
8.   Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance ..........  73
Appendix 1. Specialists on Labor-Based/Equipment-Supported
Methods of Construction of Roads   ..............    74
Appendix 2. Engineering Studies and Design for
Port of Jeremie *..............................   76
Appendix 3.  Tariff Study of Cabotage Ports ................  79
9.   Selected List of Documents in the Project File .... ............    80
CHARTS
Chart 1 - DDT Organization Chart
Chart 2 - SEMANAH Organization Chart
Chart 3 - APN Organization Chart
Chart 4 - Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 19402 - Haiti Transport VII Project



RAM
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
I.  PROJECr SUDQARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Haiti
Credit         SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0 mill-ion)
Amount:
Terms:         Repayment in 50 years, including ten years of grace, with
three-quarters of a percent administrative charge.
Relending      The proceeds of the credit for the cabotage port engineering
Terms:         studies and design of the project (US$0.28 million equivalent)
would be relent by the Government to APN under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association with a repayment term of 7 years,
including 2 years of grace, at 5Z interest per annum.
Project        The objectives of the proposed project are the improvement and
Objectives:    development of roads and coastal shipping, in support of
agriculture and industry started under previous projects, and
continued strengthening of sectoral institutions.
ProJect        The proposed project consists of: (a) implementation of Phase II of
Description:   the bridge and culvert rehabilitation program started under the
ongoing Sixth Highway Project; (b) construction of two major
bridges at Fer-a-Cheval and Guayamouc; (c) completion of road
rehabilitation on the Gonaives-Cap Raitien road; (d) technical
asslstance to SEPRRN, including improved labor-based road
construction; (e) provision to SEMANAR of technica.l assistance,
training, and boat inspection facilities; and (f) provision to APN
of funds for engineering studies and detailed engineering for
remedial works at the Port of Jeremie.
Project        The Directorate of Transport (DDT) of the Ministry of Public Works,
Executing      Transport and Communications; the National Port Authority (APN) of
Agencies:      the Ministry of Economy and Finance; and the Maritime and
Navigational Service of Haiti (SEMANA}i) would be responsible for
Project Execution through a Project Coordinating Unit.
Beneficiaries: The rural population would be the principal beneficiary from
improved road access and coastal shipping services. The entire
economy would benefit through savings in vehicle operating costs,
improved coastal shipping operations and marketing of agricultural
produce.
Risks:         The principal risk is that the Government will not allocate
sufficient counterpart investment funds to the project or
sufficient complementary recurrent expenditures. The establishment
of a Project Account and assurances by the Government that
sufficient allocations would be provided SEPRRN and SEMANAR in its
annual budgets will reduce this risk.



- 2 -
Pro,ect        The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is
Costs:         estiuated at US$24.0 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$18.7 million equivalent. The
proposed credit of SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0 million)
equivalent would  finance the full foreign exchange cost of
the project and 252 of local costs. The details are presented
below:
Summary Project Cost 1/
IDA
Local    Foreign      Total  Financing
-        US$ Million           Z Amount
A. Roads and Bridges (DDT)
Civil Works, Roads and Bridges      4.00      11.65      15.65    80  12.52
Equipment, Road Maintenance         0.07       1.36       1.43   100   1.43
Engineering and Supervision         0.13       0.74       0.87   100   0.87
Technical Assistance                0.07       1.26       1.33   100   1.33
Subtotal                     4.27      15.01      19.28   (84) 16.15
B. Maritime Service Facilities (SEKANAH)
Civil Works, Boat Inspection        0.32       1.16       1.48   80   1.18
Engineering and Supervision         0.04       0.18       0.22   100   0.22
Technical Assistance                0.19       0.35       0.54   100   0.54
Subtotal                     0.55       1.69       2.24   (86)  1.94
C. Port Improvement (APN)
Engineering Studies and Design      0.03       0.22       0.25   100   0.25
(Jerenie)
Total Baseline Cost               4.85      16.92      21.77   (84) 18.34
_-
Physical Contingencies              0.30       1.11       1.41         1.04
Price Contingencies                 0.18        .64        .82         0.62
TOTAL PROJECT COST:               5.33      18.67      24.00   (83) 20.00
Financing Resources
Proposed IDA Credit                 1.33      18.67      20.00
Government Contribution             4.00        -         4.00
Total Financing                 5.33      18.67      24.00
m           m
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA FY           1987 f/  1988    1989    1990    1991
Annual          7        6.1    6.1      3.3     2.1
Cumulative      2.4      8.5   14.6   17.9   20.0
1/ Based on January 1987 prices.
2t Includes retroactive financing.
Rate of        The economic rate of return of the major civil works project
Return:        components is 37Z; individual returns for the various
components range between 14: and 43%.



II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  The Transport System, Priorities and the Government's Plan
(i) The Transport System
2.01      Haiti's transport infrastructure consists of 2,846 km of motorable
roads (Table 2.1); 40 km of a privately owned railroad; two international
ports, ten cabotage ports and about 40 mooring points; two international
airports and five domestic airfields. Port-au-Prince, the capital and com-
mercial center, where the major international airport and main seaport are
located, is the focus of the transport system. The main National Highways,
as well as a few Departmental roads, are well designed and, with some excep-
tions, are generally in good condition. The balance of the road network has
poor geometric standards and lacks adequate drainage structures. Most of the
bridges and culverts are in a very poor state of repair because of aging and
poor maintenance, which has resulted in severe access difficulties and high
transportation costs. The general condition of the improved coastal shipping
(cabotage) ports is satisfactory, with the exception of Jeremie Port
(para 2.18, Annex 2, para 18).
2.02      Road transport, the predominant mode, accounts for more than 79Z of
total domestic transport. Coastal shipping handles about 18%, air transport
about 1%, and various beasts of burden and head loading the remaining 2%.
External trade transport is handled mostly by sea (about 98% by volume), with
the balance being by air and by road to the neighboring Dominican Republic.
International passenger transport is by air. Some 403 sailboats and 50
motorboats, with a total carrying capacity per trip of over 12,000 tons and
over 5,000 passengers, are engaged in the coastal shipping trade.
2.03      Air transport accounts for over 90% of the international passenger
traffic and 1% of the freight traffic. These percentages have been increas-
ing rapidly since 1975 as a result of the expansion of Haiti's assembly
industries and increased travel from the United States and the Dominican
Republic. Port-au-Prince International Airport was repaved in 1985, in part
financed by CCCE. CCCE is also financing a navigational aids system for
civil aviation. The five provincial airports have modest facilities and are
used mostly for charter flights. The Government has plans for building a new
larger airport at Capt-Haitien, mainly to promote tourism and development in
the area. The economic justification of this investment remains to be proved
(para 2.05).
(ii) Sector Priorities and the Government's Plan
2.04      The principal role of the transport sector for the next decade
would be to support the expansion of agriculture and industry, the main
productive areas of the economy, by providing transport infrastructure for
local producers to domestic and export markets.  The sector's objectives are
therefore: (a) the improvement and rehabilitation of roads, bridges and
ports; (b) strengthening the planning, operation and maintenance of transport
facilities; and (c) continued development of the sector institutions through
programs of staff training and technical assistance.



-4-
2.05      The previous administration had prepared a preliminary transport
sector investment program for FY87-FY91, presented in Annex 1, Table 2, which
covered practically all the transport infrastructure needs for Haiti for
the next two decades, at an estimated cost of US$294 million. There were no
identified priorities for the investments. About 60% of the proposed
investments appeared to be premature. A less ambitious, more economical and
financially feasible list of investments was prepared, discussed with DDT at
the opportunity of the October 1985 Public Expenditure Review mission and
with the present Government in April 1986 (Annex 1, Table 3). The proposed
investments in the scaled-down list would support the expansion of agricul-
ture, and would favor rural road improvement and maintenance of existing
facilities. They would cost about US$125 million, within the country's
financial and implementation capacity, and would result in a real reduction
of public expenditures for the sector compared to earlier plans. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to restrict the transport sector invest-
ment during FY87-FY91 to the agreed list of investments (Annex 1, Table 1)
and to seek the Association's approval before modifying such list of invest-
ment. Since donor agencies finance the bulk of the transport sector invest-
ments, their interests and those of the Government would have to be reviewed
carefully in order to ensure that any additional investments meet with the
sector priorities and are within the Government's financial capability.
Further, yearly reviews with the Association-coordinated with USAID, which
has a similar requirement-of future investments and capital and recurrent
cost budgetary allocations are contemplated, to ensure that sufficient funds
are available for the investments, or that the list is modified. During
negotiations, the Government also agreed that, if it decided to undertake any
improvements to the Cap Haitien Airport, such improvements would be limited
to those that can be financed exclusively with one-third of air passenger
departure tax proceeds.
B.   Institutional Framework
2.06      The institutional framework for transport sector management is
adequate. The Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
(MTPTC), through its Directorate of Transport (DDT - Chart 1), is responsible
for overall sector management. MTPTC also has jurisdiction over the National
Airport Authority (AAN) and the Maritime and Navigational Service of Haiti
(SEMANAB - Chart 2). The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) has jurisdic-
tion over the National Port Authority (APN - Chart 3) and, in addition,
influences the overall transport investments through its annual budgetary
allocations. The Commisariat for National Promotion and Public Service
defines the national development strategy, and reviews and coordinates the
investment program. Ideally, APN should be under MTPTC, but, under MEF it is
legally and financially autonomous and more commercially oriented, and it
maintains good coordination of subsectoral activities with MTPTC.
2.07      DDT has responsibility for the road subsector, through its various
services, and for overall sector planning and policy formulation. SEMANAH is
charged with the regulation and administration of the maritime services,
including efficiency and safety of shipping operations. APN is responsible
for administration, maintenance, development and operation of ports, as is
AAN for airports. DDT needs an organizational review, job reclassification,
and restructuring of duties and responsibilities, particularly of its sector
planning functions. SEPRRN, the road maintenance service of DDT, continues
to make progress towards strengthening its capacity (para 2.13). APN has



shown considerable improvement, while SEMANAR remains inadequate for the
duties assigned to it, because of the lack of Government budget support and
of experienced personnel. The proposed project would provide varying degrees
of institutional development through technical assistance, staff training and
management support to continue strengthening these sector institutions and to
consolidate the gains.
C.   The Road Subsector
(i) The Road Network
2.08      The national road network of Z,846 km consists of 565 km of asphalt
and portland cement concrete pavement; 1,893 km gravel surfaced roads; and
388 km earth roads which are occasionally used by trucks and four-wheel drive
vehicles (Table 2.1 and Map IBRD 19402). The main National Highways, com-
prising the Route du Nord from Port-au-Prince to the Departmental Capitals of
St. Marc and Gonaives, and the Route du Sud to Les Cayes via Grand Goave, are
generally in good condition. However, the Gonaives to Cap Haitien section of
Route du Nord is under rehabilitation, and spot improvement is required at
other sections of the National Highways. The Sixth Highway Project is partly
addressing the former. The Departmental roads connect the major cities along
the National Highways to the outlying Departmental capitals and to the border
posts to the Dominican Republic, and provide access to the population centers
in the Central Plateau and the Artibonite Valley, the Northwestern Region and
the Grande Anse, in the Southwest.  The design standards of the DeDartmental
roads are poor; drainage structures are inadequate or nonexistent. DDT's
road maintenance service (SEPRRN) currently maintains about 85Z of the
National and Departmental roads. The secondary roads and the tertiary earth
roads forming the balance of the road network are of very low design stan-
dards and practically without drainage structures. Most river crossings-
about 255 bridges, 3,017 culverts and 105 paved fords--are in poor condition.
A significant part of the roads, bridges and drainage structures, built in
the 1940s, have deteriorated so that normal maintenance must be preceded by
rehabilitation. Ongoing and planned programs by USAID and IDB for continued
assistance in secondary and feeder road reconstruction and rehabilitation,
together with the bridge and culvert program under the proposed project,
should help to alleviate the problem.
(ii) Highway Administration and Planning
2.09      DDT is responsible for road planning, engineering, construction and
maintenance. The expansion of the road network has created the need to
strengthen DDT's management. The low salary structure and outdated struc-
tural organization should be reviewed to introduce job reclassification and
reformulation of duties, responsibilities and appropriate compensation. The
proposed project would finance such a review (Annex 2, para 12). DDT's Plan-
ning and Studies Service (SEP) lacks experienced staff in transport planning.
The project provides for 18 man-months of consulting services to strengthen
transport planning and for the overseas training of two DDT staff (Annex 2,
para 12).
2.10      Engineering studies and detailed design and construction
supervision are carried out mostly by foreign consultants under DDT's
supervision. Recently, certain experienced Haitian consulting firms have
entered this field and have participated successfully in the design and
construction supervision of roads, bridges and drainage structures, including
the IDA-IDA-financed bridge and culvert rehabilitation programs.



- 6-
(iiI) Road Construction and Maintenance
2.11      The Road Construction Service (SCR) under DDT is building roads and
minor bridges by force account. With financing from both USAID and IDB, SCR
has built some 485 km of secondary roads since 1978, using labor-based/equip-
ment-supported methods. The rate of productirin is low, the quality of con-
struction is non-uniform and the costs are hign, averaging US$40,000 per km.
A technical assistance program to Improve plannlng, engineering, management,
productivity, and other aspects of labor-intensive methods of road construc-
tion and maintenance, prepared with ILO assistance, is given in Annex 8,
Appendix 1. The proposed project provides for continued technical assistance
to DDT's labor-intensive road construction and maintenance operations.
2.12      Most major civil works and road contracts are executed by foreign
firms. Construction costs are relatively high because of the limited scope
and lack of continuity of work for these firms. The Government has therefore
been promoting local contractors for some of these works with encouraging
results. Small scale construction capability is well developed. One major
local contractor, in joint venture with a US firm, Is reconstructing a major
paved road and rehabilitating several bridges and culverts. Other smaller
local contractors work as subcontractors.
2.13      With the assistance of USAID and IDA, SEPRRN, the road maintenance
agency, has substantially improved its road and bridge maintenance capabi-
lity. It systematically expanded the network under maintenance from about
2,000 km in 1981 to about 2,600 km in 1985. Recently, SEPPRN is emphasizing
labor-intensive maintenance through the Community Action Maintenance Program
(CAMP), under which road sections are maintained under contract by neighbor-
ing communities, supervised by SEPRRN foremen. SEPPRN provides the communi-
ties with hand tools, materials and US$1,000 equivalent per km per year. The
program, which has so far achieved good results, will be expanded under the
proposed project. SEPPRN also intends to use local contractors for road
maintenance and will take this into consideration in its FY87 maintenance
program. The assistance being provided to SEPPRN under the project should
enable SEPPRN to fulfill its obligations on the maintainable network, pro-
vided it receives adequate operating funds from the Government. SEPPRN does
not yet have sufficient financial monitoring and disaggregation of costs to
permit the identification of possible inefficiencies in operation. The
project supports the establishment of a cost accounting and control system
(Annex 2, para 10).
(iv) Expenditures and Revenues
2.14      DDT's annual expenditures are financed from the Government's
general operating budget. The operating expenditures, excluding salaries and
wages, for SEPRRN were financed by USAID until FY84, when they reverted to
the Haitian Government. Investments for road works are influenced by
external aid financing. Annual transport expenditures from FY84 to FY86
averaged US$37.5 million, of which US$18.5 million was for capital
investments and US$19.0 million for recurrent costs (Table 2.2). Government
contribue'ons averaged US$28.0 million per year. Projected total
expenditures for FY87-PY91, based upon the recommended investment list
discussed in paragraph 2.05, and including recurrent costs, would average
US$44.1 million per year, with the Government contribution of US$25.7 million



per year, of which US$20.2 million per year would be for recurrent costs.
The Government should be capable of flancing these amounts. In the past,
the Government has not allocated sufficient funds to the road subsector,
especially to road maintenance. During negotiations, the Government agreed
to allocate in its annual budget and disburse to SEPRRN, on a timely basis,
sufficient funds for an agreed road maintenance program (para 3.06).
2.15      Revenues from road-user charges Increased from US$10.8 million in
1978 to US$25.6 million in 1984 (Table 2.3), averaging some US$16.1 million
per year, which should be sufficient to cover road maintenance needs (about
US$8.0 million per year) and about 50X of the remaining local expenditures on
roads. A major issue under the Sixth Highway Project was the need to
equalize taxes on gasoline and diesel fuels. The Government has, since 1982,
adjusted motor fuel taxes progressively upward to eliminate the difference
with both fuels retailing at US$2.25 per gallon (Table 2.4). However, on
January 8, 1986, following civil disturbances, the retail price of diesel
fuel was reduced by about 11% to US$2.00 per gallon. The current prices for
both fuels continue to be well above the international opportunity costs and
include sufficient taxes to cover more than the short-term marginal cost of
the road network.
(v) Road Traffic and Axle-Load Control
2.16      Available traffic data show that about 75% of all traffic
originates from Port-au-Prince and that the paved roads carry some 80% of the
traffic, with volumes up to 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd) on some sections.
Excluding Government and army vehicles, some 39,000 motor vehicles were
registered in 1983, half of which were diesel-powered (Table 2.5).
2.17      Haiti's transport industry is subject only to regulations governing
vehicle licensing, registration and inspection, tariffs for passenger ser-
vice, vehicle dimensions and axle-load limits. Current regulations limiting
single axle loads to 18 tons and a maximum weight to 40 tons are adequate.
Under the Sixth Highway Project, the Government has purchased a new station-
ary weigh bridge and 20 mobile scales and vehicles, and has repaired an
existing weigh bridge on Route du Sud. The program is satisfactory except
for delays in installation of the new weigh bridge on the Northern road,
because of shortage of funds. The Government agreed, at negotiations, to
take and maintain all the necessary steps to enforce its vehicle dimension
and axle load limits and to exchange views on progress and future actions
with IDA by June 30 of each year during the project implementation period.
As a part of this effort the Government agreed, during negotiations, not
later than March 31, 1987 to: (a) provide DDT with an amount of US$240,000
equivalent; and (b) appoint a full-time qualified chief for DDT's vehicle
weight control services.
D.  The Port and Maritime Subsectors
(i) Port Infrastructure
2.18      Port-au-Prince, the principal international port, has modern
facilities and is operated and managed adequately. Cap Haitien, the
international port in the north, was built under Credit 1121-BA, and is well
equipped. In 1984, the two international ports handled about 982,000 tons.
Seven hundred sixty-seven vessels, comprising 41 cruise ships, 410
specialized container or Roll-on/Roll-off (Ro-Ro) vessels and 316 breakbulk
general cargo or bulk vessels called at the two ports. The international



-8-
ports have sufficient capacity for the next ten to 15 years. Because mDst
population centers are situated along the coast, cabotage ports and mooring
points are important, sea transport being the only convenient mode of
transport available. Following recommendations of a National Transport Study
(NTS-1977), ten cabotage ports have been constructed and rehabilitated under
IDA Credits 807-HA and 1121-HA. The cabotage ports, some of which were
completed recently, handled about 65,000 tons of cargo and some 134,000
passengers in 1984. The dredged slip along the wharf of the cabotage port of
Jeremie has silted in, reducing the utilization of the port. The project
would finance detailed investigation and engineering of the improvement wor's
(Annex 2, para 18).
(ii) Port Management
2.19      APN is responsible for the management and operation of the two
international ports and the ten rehabilitated cabotage ports. APN's port
management and operation have improved steadily with technical assistance.
APN has generated operating surpluses for the last decade, except for FY 81,
although there have been occasional cash-flow problems due to either slow
collection by APN or arbitrary taxation of its income by the Government
(Annex 7). Growing expenses and declining traffic eroded APN's profits until
FY84, when container tariffs were raised.  Operating ratios have been
satisfactory for the last four years and APN has consequently provided much
of the project counterpart financing (Credit 1121-HA), without Government
assistance. APN continues to subsidize the other ports with profits from
Port-au-Prince.
(iii) Port Tariffs and Charges
2.20      Coastal port tariffs were initially established to recover some 80%
of demonstrable financial benefits to users. Many cabotage vessels are,
however, avoiding the new facilities and continuing to use either the beach
or the nearest free facility. The proposed project would provide for a study
of cabotage port tariffs, as part of the technical assistance to SEMANAH
(para 3.07) based upon the terms of reference, outlined in Annex 8, Appen-
dix 3. Current charges and dues at Port-au-Prince fall within the middle
range for the Caribbean ports. However, following the shippers' complaints
and hEF's fears for its relative attraction for transshipment, APN has com-
pleted a study of international port tariffs, the results of which are being
reviewed by the Association. At negotiations, the Government agreed to put
into effect the tariffs by October 1987, and submit the study results of the
tariffs for cabotage ports for IDA's review by July 1, 1987 and put them into
effect, in both cases taking into account IDA's comments, by October 1, 1987.
(iv) Maritime Services
2.21      Established in 1982, SEMANAH's principal functions include the
registration, inspection and licensing of all coastal vessels and the
professional development of their crews. SEMANAH did not start effectively
until January 1984 and has neither been adequately staffed nor received
necessary funds from the Governnent. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to an adequate budget allocation for SEMANAH's operational require-
ements (para 3.07). The proposed project would provide technical assistance,
additional local professional staff and funds for the provision of the neces-
sary facilities (Anaex 2, para 13-17).



-9-
E.  Main Sector Issues
2.22      Tn previous years, the Government has worked closely with external
donors to suc',essfully resolve the following sector issues:  (a) adjusting
the retail prict of diesel and gasoline fuels (para 2.15 and Table 2.4';
(b) giving coastal shipping its due economic role; (c) reorganizing and
strengthening thLe institutions; (d) revising axle-load limit legislation and
initiating enforcement; and (e) introducing more appropriate road-user
taxation, including a progressive congestion tax in Port-au-Prince.
Outstanding issues include: (a) the level and structure of both interna-
tional and cabotage port charges and dues; and (b) the allocation of adequate
local funds for the operation and malntenance of transport facilities. The
proposed project will address these two issues (paras 2.20 and 3.06).
F.   Experience with Bank Group Lending in the Sector
2.23      Since 1956, the Bank Group has made one loan and extended five
credits for transportation for a total of US$73 million equivalent. Four
were for highways, one was for a combined highways and ports project, and one
was exclusively for ports. The first Bank Loan 141-HA for US$2.6 million, in
1956, was for a Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project which covered about
1,000 km of roads, which was completed under an Interim Highway Credit 32-HA
for US$350,000 in 1962. Political and managerial problems delayed the
implementation of the project. The second and third projects (Credits 478-HA
and 556-RA, 1974 and i375, for US$10 million and US$20 million respectively)
were to reconstruct the Route du Nord (250 km), including emergency recons-
truction of the Estere, Sonde and Limbe Bridges.  These projects provided
all-weather access between Port-au-Prince and the principal northern city and
port, Cap Haitien, ar.d linked the Artibonite Valley to the main food-consum-
ing centers. They also tfnanced and initiated axle-load control. The
Project Completion Report (PCR), dated May 1980, reestimated higher returns
(25 and 41% compared to 20 and 35%, respectively, at appraisal) for the
projects, mostly be-ause of higher-than-anticipated growth rates for traffic
and savings in vehicle operating costs which more than offset construction
cost overruns. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) draws attention
to  disagreements between the overnment and IDA on design standards for road
construction-the Government advocating a higher pavement standa-;d and IDA,
In view of limited funds, insisting upon phased construction. History has
proved neither side comnpletely correct. The pavement deteriorated slightly
faster than IDA predicted, but not so rapidly as to have, then, warranted the
additional cost of a higher class pavement.
2.24      The Transport Project (Credit 807-HA, US$15 million, 1978) provided
for the upgrading and paving of 54 km of roads in the Northern Plains, a
feeder road to the Jeremie Port, the construction of the Hypolite and Trois
Rivieres Bridges and new terminals for shallow draft vessels at
Port-au-Prince, Port-,e-Paix and Jeremie. The PCR concluded that the project
had fully achieved its objectives and had been implemented within costs, but
had suffered some delays.  The economic reevaluation confirmed the viability
of the road component. Subsequently, the port component was also judged
feasible, although, early in 1982 it was realized that the dredged slip at
Jeremie was subject to rapid siltation and that remedial works would be
required.



- 10 -
2.25      The Port Project (Credit 1121-HA, US$11 million, 1981), co-financed
by the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), primarily constructed a berth
for cruise ships, a wharf for break-bulk and Ro-Ro general cargo vessels, and
a wharf for cabotage vessels at Cap Haitien. In addition, cabotage ports
were rehabilitated or constructed at Gonaives, Anse-a-Galets, Baraderes,
Corail, Anse d'Hainault, Port-a-Piment and Les Cayes, including the cost
overruns of Jeremie. The PCR concluded that, in the face of subsequent
economic developments in Haiti, the investments in the Cap Haitien Port were
premature and that the viability of the project's cabotage ports would depend
upon a proper pricing policy for their use and institutional improvements in
SEMANAH. The latter are being addressed under  the proposed project.
G.  Bank Group Lending Strategy in the Sector
2.26      The Bank Group's support of Haiti's transport sector development
has to be coordinated with relevant objectives and aid policies of other
major aid givers active In the country, including in particular IDB, USAID,
KfW and CCCE. Taking into consideration the transport sector's priority
needs, as described before (paras 2.04 and 2.05), and other aid agencies'
plans, IDA objectives and development strategy in this sector include:
(a) assistance for further improving the sectoral institutions, with parti-
cular focus on DDT, SEMANAH and APN; (b) continued road and bridge rehabi-
litation to ensure access to major agricultural and industrial development
areas; (c) continued focus on improvement of road maintenance, with increased
use of suitable labor-intensive methods; and (d) as a longer term objective,
rehabilitation and improvement of selected links in the primary road network.
The proposed project would address the objectives set under (a), (b) and (c)
and would lay the basis for (d). IDB has plans for financing of the con-
struction and rehabilitation of the Pont Sonde-Mirebalais Road and secondary
roads in the Artibonite Valley. The USAID's involvement is likely to be
limited to the construction and maintenance of secondary roads by labor-
intensive methods and to selective technical assistance to SEPRRN; KfW has
been concentrating upon the improvement of some specific port facilities,
while CCCE is considering the construction of three bridges in the Grande
Anse and is furnishing navigational aids for the international airports at
Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      The project was identified in December 1984 and prepared by the
beneficiary agencies with the aid of consultants. After the appraisal in
July 1985, the scope of the project has been reduced to take into account the
Government's capabilities to provide counterpart funds and emerging needs for
alternative IDA financing in Haiti. Negotiations were held in Washington
from December 1-4, 1986. The Haitian delegation was headed by Col. Jacques
Joachim, the Minister of Public Works, Transport and Communications, and
included representatives from DDT, APN and MEF and the designated chairman of
the Project Coordinating Unit. The main features of the proposed credit and
project are outlined in the Credit and Project Summary, and the details are
presented in Annex 2.



- 
B. Project Objectives and Rationale
3.02      In the past, the Bank Group helped the Government to develop and
improve highway and port infrastructure, and to build the sectoral insti-
tutions, introducing appropriate sector policies in the areas of transport
pricing, user charges and vehicle axle-load control. The results have been
positive. There is continuing need for further development in the sector,
particularly in support of the expansion of agriculture and industry, by
providing transport infrastructure to link producers to domestic and export
markets. Haiti's short and medium term needs in transport are: the
completion of infrastructure facilities prepared or started under previous
projects, filling the gaps and rectifying the deficiencies in planning and
execution as well as further strengthening and consolidating the improvements
achieved in the development of the sectoral institutions.
3.03      The proposed project would help the Government to attain the
foregoing objectives by improving road sections and rehabilitating bridges
and drainage structures essential for the transport of agricultural produce;
expanding the road maintenance program by labor-intensive methods; improvTig
the maritime regulatory services and facilities, providing tools, implements,
equipment and spare parts for the operation and maintenance of road infra-
structure; and further strengthening institutions through appropriate
training and technical assistance. The proposed project would also aim at
setting of realistic parameters for the Government's FY87-91 transport sector
investments (para 2.05).
C. Project Description
3.04      The proposed project consists of: (a) rehabilitation of bridges and
drainage structures In continuation of the ongoing program under the Sixth
Highway Project, Credit 1220-HA; (b) construction of two major bridges at
Fer-a-Cheval and Guayamouc; (c) completion of road rehabilitation on the
Gonaives-Cap Haitien road started under Credit 1220-HA; (d) continued streng-
thening of highway administration  and road and bridge maintenance through
training and technical assistance, including improved labor-intensive
methods; and provision of tools, equipment and spare parts for road main-
tenance; (e) an inspection facility for cabotage vessels and training and
technical assistance for SEMANAR; and (f) funds for technical studies, and
design and detailed engineering for the remedial works at the cabotage port
of Jeremie. A detailed description of the project is given in Annex 2; the
main project components are presented below.
(i) Roads and Bridges
3.05      To provide dependable access to rural population centers and
agricultural areas, and in continuation of the Sixth Highway Project,
Credit 1220-HA, the project provides for the construction of 38 drainage
structures located on Departmental and secondary roads, currently being
improved (Table 3.1). The Fer-a-Cheval Bridge, located on the Mirebalais
Road, collapsed in May 1983 and is beyond repair. The suspension bridge at
Guayamouc is closed to traffic because of severe corrosion of the structural
members. These bridges were originally included in the rehabilitation
program of the Sixth Highway Project. However, following studies of alter-
natives, the Government decided in favor of new construction because of the



- 12 -
relatively high cost of repairs and rehabilitation. The Route du Nord, of
which the Gonaives-Cap Haitien is the northern section, is Haiti's most
important transport artery. As a result the reduction of project size by
amendment of Credit 1220-HA, works on an equivalent of 35 km of the road were
deferred. The proposed project provides for the strengthening and
rehabilitation of about 20 km and spot repairs and surface dressing on
another 15 km of the deferred section.
(ii) Strengthening of Highway Administration and Road Maintenance
3.06      Technical assistance, about 120 man-months of consultant services,
would be continued to SEPRRN for institutional strengthening and staff
training under its expanding maintenance program. Tools and implements would
be provided for labor-intensive road maintenance through the Community Action
Maintenance Program (Table 3.2). A Technical Assistance Program to DDT,
about 12 man-months of expatriate consultant services, would improve labor-
intensive road construction and maintenance techniques including construction
planning and organization, cost accounting, procurement procedures, and
selection and utilization of appropriate support equipment (Annex 8, Aopendix
1). During negotiations, agreement was reached on the scope of a Technical
Assistance Program to improve labor-based methods, with two pilot road con-
struction sites in two regions of the country. The Government also agreed to
submit for the Association's approval, by June 30, 1987, and thereafter by
June 30 every year during the project implementation period, the details of
such a program including the technical assistance required and the sites
selected to carry it out, taking Into consideration the Association's com-
ments. The project would also assist in the restructuring of DDT's organi-
zation and job reclassification, and would strengthen the Planning and
Studies Service (SEP) through training and technical assistance of about 18
man-months in transport planning (Annex 2, para 12). SEPPRN's maintenance
program for FY87-FY91 (Table 3.3) is aimed at a total coverage of the paved
and gravel roads. At negotiations, the Government agreed to allocate to
SEPPRN a minimum equivalent of US$8.8 million in FY88, US$9.7 million in
FY89, US$10.6 million in FY90, US$11.8 million in FY91 and US$12.9 million
in FY92, and to have the consultants start work on DDT's organization by
June 30, 1987.
(iii) Maritime Services
3.07      SEHANAH's responsibilities include periodic inspection, certifi-
cation and registration of boats and vessels, training of officers and crew
of the vessels, providing adequate navigational aids and radio communications
facilities to transmit meteorological and search and rescue information for
both cabotage and international traffic, and developing a program for the
modernization of the national fleet. The project providesSEMANAH with an
inspection slipway and yard for small boats; a maritime training center for
captains and seamen; and an institutional development program for staff
training and technical assistance, about 36 man-months of expatriate ser-
vices, to strengthen SEMANAH's technical administration, management and
operation of its facilities and performance of its assigned services
(Annex 2, para 14). To enable SEMANAH to meet its assigned responsibilities,
the Government agreed at negotiations to allocate a minimum equivalent of
US$0.8 million in FY88, US$0.9 million in FY89, US$1.0 million in FY90 and
US$1.2 million in FY91, and to commence the program for strengthening
SEMANAH's technical administration by June 30, 1987.



- 13 -
(iv) Port Improvement
3.08      APN is responsible for the planning, construction, management and
operation of Haiti's two international ports and the cabotage ports,
including cargo handling and the operation and maintenance of all port
facilities (para 2.19). The project would provide APN with funds for the
technical study, design and detailed engineering for the remedial works at
the cabotage port of Jeremie (Annex 2, para 18).
D.   Project Costs and Financing
3.09      The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at
US$24.0 million equivalent, based on January 1987 prices, with a foreign
exchange component of US$18.7 million equivalent (782) and local costs of
US$5.3 million equivalent, which are detailed in Tables 3.4-3.12 and are
summarized below:
Detailed Project Cost Estimate
(USS Thousands)
X
A.  ROADS DDT/SEPRRN                               Total   Local   Foreign  Foreign
Civil Works
Bridge Rehabilitation                       7,962   1,990    5,972       75
Bridge Construction                         3,015      603    2,412      80
Road Rehabilitation                         4,676   1,403    3,273       70
Equipment
Road Maintenance (SEPRRN'                   1,436       72    1,364      95
Engineering and Supervision                      869      134       735     85
Technical Assistance and Training              1,327       66    1,261      95
Subtotal (DDT)                       19,285   4,268   15,017      78
B. SEMANAH: Maritime Service Facilities
Civil Works
Slipway and Yard, Boat Inspection           1,209      242      967      80
Training Center, Maritime Personnel           275       83      192      70
Engineering and Supervision                      218       44      174      80
Technical Assistance and Tralning                544      190      354      65
Subtotal                              2,246     558    1,688      80
C. APN: Port Improvement
Engineering Studies and Design Jeremie           245       25      220      90
Total Base Costs                              21,776   4,851   16,925       78
Physical Contingencies                      1,415      299    1,116      79
Price Escalation                              816      179      637      78
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           24,007   5,329   18,678       78
=_ 



- 14 -
The proposed IDA credit of SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0 million) would finance
the full foreign exchange costs and 25% of locai costs.  The Government would
finance the balance of US$4.0 million equivalent. To permit the early start
of the bridge rehabilitation program, the Government has, with IDA's
agreement, awarded contracts to the lowest evaluated bidders, already
selected following ICB procedures under Credit 1220-HA. US$1.0 million
equivalent, in retroactive financing, was agreed with Government at
negotiations, for bridge rehabilitation works scheduled to start in late
1986. Further, retroactive financing of US$0.2 million for engineering
services for the detailed design and preparation of bid documents for the
slipway and yard and the maritime training center was also agreed.
3.10      The cost estimates are based upon January 1987 prices.  The costs
of bridge rehabilitation are based upon the contract amounts agreed with the
lowest responsive bidders. The cost estimates for road rehabilitation works
are based upon current contract rates adjusted for changed conditions by the
supervising consultants. The cost estimates for the new bridges, the boat
inspection slipway and training center are based upon bills of quantities and
updated unit prices currently in use for similar works in Haiti. Those for
tools, implements, training equipment, and spare parts are based upon recent-
ly concluded contracts by DDT, SEMANAH and APN for similar items or upon
recent quotations received from local and international suppliers. For
consultant services, the estimates are based upon the type and duration of
services required. Physical contingencies range from 5% for civil works for
which detailed engineering has been completed, to 15% for items for which
only preliminary estimates are available.  Price increases for both local and
foreign cost components have been assumed at 3.0Z for FY87 and 1.OZ for
FY88-FY9O, in accordance with Bank Guidelines on Expected Price Increases.
E.  Project Implementation
3.11      Responsibility for project execution will be divided among:
(a) DDT, for roads and bridges; (b) SEMANAH for the maritime regulatory
service facilities; and (c) APN for the Jeremie port engineering design and
studies. As a precondition to disbursement of the proceeds of the credit for
the Jeremie port component of the project, the Government and APN will enter
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to IDA, and under which US$0.28
million equivalent would be relent by the Government to APN on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association including a repayment term of 7
years with 2 years of grace and 5% interest per annum. A Project Coordi-
nating Unit (PCU) would be established with powers and responsibilities to
ensure proper coordination and mDnitoring of implementation, as well as
maintenance of project progress reports. The PCU, composed of the Directors
of DDT, APN and SEMANAH and a senior representative of MEF, would work under
the chairmanship of the Director of DDT. The Government would also designate
a full-time Project Implementation Officer, a qualified and experienced
engineer, to be responsible for the day-to-day supervision of project imple-
mentation under the guidance of the chairman of the PCU. The designated
chairman of the PCU participated in the negotiations. The establishment of
the PCU and the appointment of the Project Implementation Officer would be
conditions of effectiveness. DDT, SEMANAR and APN would be assisted by
consultants, as necessary, in implementing the project.



- 15 -
F. Procurement and Disbursement
3.12      Following Bank Group Guidelines, tenders for the bridge rehab-
ilitation program, totaling about US$8.7 million, including contingencies,
were received in September 1984 and evaluated. The Government and the lowest
evaluated bidders have agreed upon price adjustments. Road rehabilitation
works, civil works for the two bridges, and SEMANAR's training center and
boat inspection facility, totaling US$9.5 million equivalent, including con-
tingencies, would be procured after prequalification of firms, in accordance
with Bank Group Guidellnes for ICB procurement.  Civil works contracts with
estimated costs below US$100,000, and up to an aggregated amount of US$0.7
million equivalent will be advertised locally and awarded in accordance with
Government procedures. The Government's competitive bidding procedures are
satisfactory, and foreign contractors are allowed to participate.
3.13      Procurement of road maintenance equipment and tools, hand imple-
ments and spare parts, totaling US$1.4 million, including contingencies,
would be through ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Eligible
domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price
of Imported goods, or the import duty, whichever is lower. LCB would be
considered for contracts under US$50,000 equivalent, and up to an aggregated
amount of US$200,000 equivalent. Bidding procedures, tender documents,
guarantee and contract forms and proposed contract awards for contracts in
excess of US$100,000 equivalent would all be subject to IDA's prior approval.
3.14      Consultants would be retained following the Bank Group's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants and subject to IDA's prior review and approval.
Detailed Terms of Reference for the major services would be subject to IDA's
approval (based upon the outlines in Annex 8). The procurement procedures
are summarized below:
Procurement Procedures
Project Element                    ICB       LCB       Other     Total
uS$ Million -
Civil Works                       18.2       0.7         -        18.9
(14.3) 2/  (0.6)       -        (14.9)
Equipment                          1.4       0.2         -         1.6
(1.4)     (0.2)       -         (1.6)
Technical Assistance
and Studies                                 -         3.5        3.5
-    ~ -          (3.5)       (3.5)
TOTAL                   19.6       0.9       3.5        24.0
(15.7)     (0.8)     (3.5)      (20.0)
1/   Values include physical and price contingencies.
2/   Figures in parentheses correspond to estimated credit allocations.
3.15      Disbursements would be against expenditures as follows: (a) 80Z of
total expenditures for all civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported goods, 100% of ex-factory prices for local goods, and 85% of local



- 16 -
expenditures of off-the-shelf items; Cc) 1002 of total expenditures for
technical assistance and consulting services and audits (Table 3.12). With-
drawal applications for contract amounts above US$20,000 equivalent would be
fully documented. Disbursements for contracts of less than US$20,000 equi-
valent would be made against statements of expenditure, the documentation of
which would be retained for review by IDA missions and audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Expenditures incurred prior to the signature of
the Development Credit Agreement, and after October 1, 1986, for the rehabi-
litation of bridges and engineering studies and services, not exceeding SDR
990,000, would be financed retroactively. The estimated schedule of dis-
bursements over four years is shown in Table 3.13. This is shorter than the
standard regional profile spread over eight years for Bank-Group-financed
transport projects. However, it is considered realistic, given that (a) the
contracts for the major project items have already been awarded, (b) Govern-
ment's contribution to the project is relatively low and satisfactory
arrangements are being made under the project, through a Project Account, to
ensure timely availability of counterpart funds.
G.   Project Accounts, Auditing and Monitoring
3.16      Experience has shown that budgetary constraints limit the
Government's capacity to meet project expenditures, and the Project Executing
Agency would have to submit reimbursement applications for small amounts at
frequent intervals to maintain its cash flow. To alleviate these problems,
IDA would deposit US$1.6 million equivalent into a Special Account esta-
blished by the Government in a Commercial Bank, acceptable to IDA, which
represents IDA's share of financing of four months of estimated eligible
project expenditures.  IDA would start recovery of the initial deposit when
the total undisbursed credit amount and any commitments have reached a total
of MUS3.0 million equivalent. To ensure timely availability of adequate
counterpart funds, the Government agreed during negotiations to establish a
separate Project Account in the Banque de la Republique du Haiti, make an
initial deposit of US$0.4 million equivalent in local currency and replenish
such an account so that the amounts available do not fall below the counter-
part funds required to meet two months of estimated project expenditures.
The project records and accounts, including the Special Account, the Project
Account and the accounts of the Executing Agencies shall be subject to
specific audit, each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, consistently applied by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA. Certified copies of all financial statements would be transmitted to
IDA not later than four months after the close of each fiscal year. Esta-
blishment of the Special Account, the Project Account and the Government's
initial deposit of US$0.4 million equivalent in the Project Account would be
conditions for effectiveness.
3.17      Progress of the project toward achieving its objectives would be
monitored against tb-- estimate of credit disbursement schedule (Table 3.13)
and implementation schedule (Chart 4). The institutional development of DDT
and SEMANAH in performing their respectively assigned functions would be
closely monitored. The physical indicators for monitoring SEMANAH's insti-
tutional strengthening are in Table 3.14, and the Main Events in Project
Implementation are summarized in Table 3.15.



- 17 -
H.   Economic Evaluation and Benefits
3.18      The direct benefits from the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
drainage structures would be the provision of year-round motor-vehicle access
to agriculturally productive areas and population centers, a reduction in
transport costs, and the extension of the service life of the rehabilitated
structures. The road rehabilitation and maintenance components would yield
direct benefits in the reduction of vehicle operating costs and traffic
accidents. The rural population would be the principal beneficiary of the
project, which is centered upon the rehabilitation of drainage structures,
better maintenance of secondary and feeder roads, improvement of princlpal
access routes and the overall Improvement of coastal shipping services-the
principal transport mode of coastal communities.
3.19      The economic rate of return (ERR) estimates for the major civil
works components were based upon consultants" studies included in the Project
File, and the assumptions and detailed calculations are summarized in
Annex 5. The bridge and culvert rehabilitation program would have an overall
ERR of 43%; the reconstruction of the Fer-a-Cheval and Guayamouc bridges, 23%
and 39% respectively; the completion of the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road, 28%;
the road maintenance support, 37%; and the slipway and yard, 21%. The ERR for
tL. main civil works project components is estimated at 37Z. The institu-
tion-building components would yield high, but unquantifiable, returns.
Sensitivity tests of the individual components show that, in all cases, the
resulting ERRs exceed 12%. The project is therefore economically
justifiable.
I.   Risks
3.20      The principal risk is that the Government will not allocate suffi-
cient counterpart investment funds to the project or sufficient complementary
recurrent expenditures. The establishment of the Project Account (para 3,12)
and agreement on the minimum budgets to cover project expenditures would
assure the availability of adequate local funds. To sustain the accrual of
benefits from the rehabilitation, reconstruction and improvement of roads and
drainage structures, there Is need for continued maintenance, during and
after project implementation. During negotiations, Government gave assuran-
ces that sufficient allocations will be provided to SEPPRN and SEMANAH in its
annual budgets (para 3.06 and 3.07).
IV. AGREEMETS REACHED AND RECONKENDATIONS
4.01      The designated Chairman of the PCU participated in the negotiations
(para 3.11).
4.02      During negotiations, the Government agreed with the Association
that:
(a)  it would restrict to the agreed list the transport sector
investments for FY87-9 (para 2.05), and, if the Government decided
to proceed with its proposal to improve the airport at Cap Haitien
to an international airport, its financing would be limited
exclusively to one-third of air passenger departure tax proceeds;



- 18 -
(b)  it would review with the Association, by June 30 each year, in
respect to the capital and recurrent fund estimates necessary to
carry out its transport sector investments (para 2.05);
(c) it would allocate and disburse given amounts of budgetary funds to
SEPRRN on a timely basis to carry out an agreed road maintenance
program (paras 2.14 and 3.06);
(d) it would enforce fully the vehicle dimension ar-i axle-load control
regulations, provide additional funds and manpower to DDT to
strengthen its enforcement effort, and exchange views with the
Association on the progress by June 30 of each year during project
implementation period (para 2.17);
(e) it would put into effect the international port tariffs included
in APN's final report entitled -Port-au-Prince International Port:
Structure and Level of Taxes for 1987/1989, taking into
consideration the Association's comments, by October 1, 1987 (para
2.20);
(f)  it would submit for IDA's review and comments, the tariffs for the
use of cabotage ports by July 1, 1987; and to put them into effect
taking into account the Association's comments, as agreed, by
October 1, 1987 (para 2.20);
Cg) it would allocate and disburse given amounts of budgetary funds to
SEMANAH to put into effect its program of strengthening
administration, management and operations (paras 2.21 and 3.07);
and
Ch) it would submit for the Association's comments by June 30, 1987, a
technical assistance program to improve and put into effect the
labor-based methods of road construction and designate pilot sites
in two regions of the country, and review the program by June 30 of
each year during project implementation period (para 3.06).
4.03      The following would be conditions for credit effectiveness:
Ca) setting up of a Project Coordinating Unit composed of the Directors
of DDT, APN and SEMANAH and a senior representative of MEF and the
appointment of a qualified Project Implementation Officer to carry
out the day-to-day supervision of prcject implementation (para
3.11); and
(b) establishment of the Special Account, the Project Account and the
Government's initial deposit of US$0.4 million equivalent Into the
Project Account (para 3.16).
4.04      As a condition of disbursement of the credit proceeds for the
Jeremie port studies, the Government and APN would enter into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association under which an amount not
exceeding US$0.28 million equivalent would be relent by Government to APN
with a repayment term of 7 years, including 2 years of grace, at 5X interest
per annum (para 3.11).
4.05      Agreement having been reached on the items listed in paras 4.02,
4.03 and 4.04 above, the Project is suitable for an IDA financing of S-iR 16.6
million (US$20.0 million equivalent) under standard terms and conditions.
December 15, 1986



HAITI
TRANSPORT VIl PROJECT
The Road Network - By Dlstrict
(Km of Roads/Units of Structures)
R_ver Crossings
Roads (km)                      Bridges            Box         Pipe      Paved   Unpaved
Asphalt   Gravel   Earth   Total        Concrete/Steel       Culvert    Culverts   Fords    Fords
Port-au-Prince           159 2       167        71      397          25                 208          410         -         7
Cap Haltien '/           105         316        29      450          72                 227          420         a         -
Gonolves                  69         139        72      280          10                 117          154         5        20
Hlnche                     -         150        27      177           3                   3           11         4        48
Les Cayes                 93         284        54      431          19                 183          269         -        19                                F-I
Port de Paix               -         160        12      172           4                  11          114        38         9
St. Marc                  51          8a        35      174          29                  98          124         1         -
Mirebalais                 -         188         8      196          56                  20          193        27         5
Jacmel                    25         144         8      177           2                  23          129        10         5
Petit Goave               63          53        -       116          33                  12          253         -         -
Joremle                    -         204        72      276           2                   -           38        12         5
Total                    565       1,893       388   2,846          255                 902        2,115       105       118
1/ Includes 27 km of concrete road: Port-au-Princo to Lfogine.
2/ Including Quanaminhllue.
Source: SEPRRN
October 1985



- 20 -                                   TABLE 2.2
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Government's Total Annual Expenditure for Transport Sector
(US$ Million)
Year                        FY84-86    FY87      FYB8     FY89       FY90      FY91    FY87-FY91
Capltal Investnents                    55.0     15.0     25.0     30.0       30.0      25.0      125.0
Foreign (A)                            28.4     10.5     17.5     21.0       21.0      17.5       87.5
Local (B)                              27.1      4.5      7.5      9.0        9.0       7.5       37.5
Recurrent Expenditures CC)             56.9     21.5    20.3      20.3       19.6      19.1      100.8
Total Local Funds (B + C)              84.0     26.1     27.8     29.3       28.6      26.6      138.3
Total (Capital 4 Recurrent
A + B + C)                    112.4      36.6     45.3    50.3       49.6       44.1      225.8
Source: DDT
January 1986



- 21 -
TABLE 2.3
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Government's Revenues from Road-User Charges
(in millions of US dollars)
Item                    FY78   FY79    FY80    FY811/  FY82    FY83        FY841/
Tax on Fuels and
Lubricants             5.8      6.7     7.9      4.2      6.8    13.9      14.0
Registration Fees       1.3      1.3     1.4      1.4      1.4      1.7      1.0
Drivers' Licenses       0.1      0.1     0.1      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3
Import Duties on
Vehicles             3.1     5.2      3.5      -        3.6      3.4      4.0
Spare Parts          0.3     0.3      0.3      -        0.6     0.5       0.4
Tires                0.2     0.8      0.8      -        0.7     0.9       0.9
Subtotal             3.6     6.3      4.6      -        4.9     4.8       5.3
TOTAL               10.8    14.4    14.0       5.9     13.4    20.7      20.6
=       =~
1/ Incomplete data.
Source: I.H.S.I., Port-au-Prince
October 1985



22-
TABLE 2.4
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Evolution of Retail Prices of Fuel
Gasoline                  Gasoil            Gasoline-Gasoil
Price       Increase    Price        Increase        Difference
Dates          ($/gal)         Z        ($Sgal)         Z             ($/gal)
1973                  .78                       .44                          .34
1974  Jan.   9        .84         7.7           .50          14              .34
1974  Feb.   8        .94        12             .63          26              .31
1975  May    1        .92       - 2             .60        - 5               .32
1976  March  5        .94         2             .63           5              .31
1977  March  2        .97         3             .65           3              .32
1977  April 23        .97         0             .65           0              .32
1978                  .97         0             .65           0              .32
1979  March  1       1.06         9             .65           0              .41
1979  April 17       1.06         0             .65           0              .41
1979  June   1       1.29        22             .72          11              .57
1979  June   7       1.29         0             .72           0              .57
1979  Aug.   8       1.58        23             .80          11              .78
1979  Sept.  2       1.58         0             .85           6              .73
1980  Feb.  20       1.85        18            1.07          26              .78
1980  Aug.           1.95         5.4          1.17           9              .78
1981  March          1.87       - 4            1.20           3              .67
1981  May            2.15        15            1.17        - 3               .98
1982  March  2       2.15         0            1.40          20              .75
1982  Oct.  26       2.15         0            1.50           7              .65
1983  March  1       2.15         0            1.45        -3                .70
1984  Aug.   1       2.25         5            1.65          14              .60
1985  March  8       2.25         0           2.25           36              .00
1986  Jan. 8         2.25         0           2.00         -11               .25
1986  April 10       1.91       -15            1.55        -22               .36
Source: DDT
January 1986



HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Vehicle Importation and Registration
I. Importation
Type                 1976      1977        1978       1979       1980       1981        1982       1983
Private Vehicles            1,442    1,525       2,507      3,081       2,630      3,195      2,286      2,137
Commercial Vehicles         1,154    1,425       2,090       2,161      1,214      1,572      1,251       1,235
TOTAL               2,656    2,950       4,597       5,242      3,844      4,767      3,537      3,372
-_--   -    - _ _-w
II.  Vehicle Registration                                                                                                        w
T! e~                1976      1977        1978       1979       1980       1981       1982        1983
Private Vehicles           17,873   19,760    23,917    26,693    32,245    20,485    19,727    26,514
Trucks                      2,031    2,161       2,828      3,556       3,344      3,081      2,065      2,920
Bus and Vans                  331       645        849      1,112       1,115      5,442      5,607      8,639
Sub-Total         20,235   22,566    27,594    31,361    36,704    29,008    27,399    38,073
Motorcycles                   864       861      3,187      1,508      1,491         -          784        965
TOTAL             21,099   23,427    30,781    32,869    38,195    29,008    28,183    39,038
Source: IHSI
October 1985



- 24 -
Table 3.1
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Drainage Structures to be Rehabilitated
EFti_r_ COeldwidlcwf
Lot Nb.     c               l4aI SaCtIM           Ri-              Stnimn  1vi D2  Adw (CM)                     (1IES)       _ ___
1.      CRANE AMR           jXzad.1m'            B1M Double kWml                         2 x (2.C0 x 2.00)       107.0 1/       23.1.01
mtoou Rai on t    C Dble Bared          2 x (2Lm  x LOD)         98.3         23.I.02
awC Db   BTerl          2 x (2.00 x  2.00)     127.8          23.1.03
BIubze          RCN1 Triple BarteL      3 x (2.00 x 2.00)       117.8         23.1.O
Da  M-red
O'HaIuxdt            Eaz Rmm         S Triple BlarKl         3 x (2.0  x L0)         121.8          23.3.01
Plkvtae         BC D1e    TerI          2 x (2.00 x 2.00)       124.5         23.3.02
Eam             DBC Triple Beurl        3 x (2.  x 2.00)        132.4         23.3.3
[L*.    mr. m SWI           (kwajLJurder    Pradil               DC T1Iple 11S1          3 x (2L0  x 2LOD)       158.0          20.0.01
Gm     n           om      Foid         4.X0  x 30.D            83.5          20.002
R Fin             um  FaRd              46.0  x 18.W0           32.9          20.0.03
131.  Pr. mII SD tr      JIC1J     .Jml   sad                  DC Ttpa  BN=L           3 x (2.0  x 21)        10L.9          16.1.02
Bombcu          BC Quale BEr=l          4 x (2M x 2.00)         153.4         Ib.1.
CaJwl           GXcr   Focd             4.00 x 40               95.5          16.A.0K
iv.     E1. 1 CENM             _        aIaii  .Jin    3           X  ad   Slqdp  Sp.   L x 16.0                4£.9.1          11.3.03
mB1e Dt    SWp         2 x 16.00               607.8          11.3.06
Curda      [      C Triple Bsrml        3 x (2OO x 2.30)        107.0         12.1.01
Radm                  Triplc kiz        (-.OD x 2.50)           108.8    I    LL.07
V.      OM. NM&  ( CM=   St. RailJP4gpo .   GmI  BrBd   Dad" Spu   2 x 1[6.0                                     719.1          8.3.01
Somme     -     g= BIrd  llnh1  Sp    2 x 16.                 619.1          9.2.01
VZi.    CM. 0NID            Ft. LUriI
Ouw_dntta            Emcry                k±a  SiIl=;   S,    L x 16.               906.4           1.4.03
t_cd                 L'Abmare             Dle Br*l  .   2 x (2.O x 2.00)             84.8          8.1.02
!=gurd n             .'tLewl         RC Dble Buril           2 x (2.00 x 2.0)        107.1         81.03
!ks3dd               Caridouei      XC Dlou Bl ril           Z x (Lm x 2.00)         84.0          8L.Ofb
Cd dltodn        K=B       Sizgle Spi   I x 16.00               584.7         8.1A5
Iu/St. Rqptl    la Qailru            RC Triple BuCrB1        3 x (2.0  x 2.00)       117.1         8L2M2
VIM.    CM. 00 NM          LUmb t MRt             ot Ci-mc              0 upe Bmrid      4 x (2.  x 2.00)        166.0           l.01
L1Umbdrt "t P        Dar2f.i              Tril BurIal        3 x (Z0  x LO0)         145.9    L l.02
L1o/Pbrt             oro imy (1)  I EC DM,%, hirsI           2 x (2.0  x 2.00)       94.9          2L.03
L1/oci 1- Ist        cuyte (2)       RC Siqal Bril           I x (2.C0 x 2.0)         75.3         LI2.0
UL1/irt 1hz          F Promt         IIC Simpe Buril         I x (L00 x 2.0))         77.8         2.1.05
Port magocp ntlc     Fam  Cob _           tiple Burr1 l      3 x(2.00 ax 20)         116.5         2.2.02
sM.   CM. EU  sDCw r  Por ¢da-a1d
St. ofuIs da  Nacd   Biam Morlia        C Doble 11r1al       2 x (2.00 x 2.0)        123.0         5.1.01
Iantrie           = Doble  Buril        2 x (LWO x L20)         123.9         5.1.2
la CA"          IRS kI     Shrge Spu   I x 16.00               480.0          5.1.03
-21m            RID;dim Single SBpm  I x 2000                  5980 .0IAM
L'Etm           l=DC   b      r ial     2 x (2.00 x L2)         91.5          5.1.A
St. rAa         ROC TXipi Bnil          3 x t2.0 x  2. )        126.8         S.1A6
Norbim          H    Triple B-mL        3 x (2.00  2.x0)        94.9          5.1.07
If Ti~1zai11W 3Rp Tzutaliam.
_  S      _ou  d.sal.  adw  Cc. 122D4.
Source: MTPTC
October 1985



- 25 -
TABLE 3.2
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Road Maintenance Tools and Implements
(In units and estimated value in US$'000)
1985 1/  1986 2/      1987 2/      1988 2/   1989 2
Wheel Barrows                 510      1,130        1,330        1,500      1,640
Shovels                       767      1,695        1,995        2,250     2,640
Picks                         510      1,130        1,330        1,500     1,640
Machetes                      510      1,130        1,370        1,500     1,640
Tampers                       255        565          665          750       820
Rakes                         510      1,130        1,330        1,500     1,640
Sledge Hammers                255        115          100           85        70
Crow Bars                     127         58           50           43         35
Files                         127         58           50          43         35
Estimated Total Cost 1/    56.4        110.2        130.1       168.1      199.3
l/   Actual in 1985.
2/   Projected 1986-1989.
Source:   SEPRRN
October 1985



- 26  -                                 TABLE 3.3
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Projected Road Maintenance Program (SEPRRN)
(1986-1991)
Facility/Activity               198_  1/     1986       1987        1988       1989        1990        1991
Road Maintenance
Asphalt Rorsds (km)            606         606        606         678        748         825        825
Gravel Roads (km)            1,072       1,372      1,477       1.597      1,647       1,720       1,720
Secondary Roads (km)           450         565        665         750        820         890        940
Earth Roads (kn)               112         112        100         100         150        200        200
Total Length (km)            2,240       2,655      2,848       3,125      3,365       3,625      3,685
Maintenance Units
Labor Intensive                 78         108        112         123        131         141         141
Regrading                       11          11         11          11          II         11          11
Intervention                     6          8           a          8           8           8          8
Asphalt Pavement                30          33         35          36         39          39         39
Bridge Repair                    6           6          6           6          6           6          6
1/   Actual lenqths maTntalned.
Source: SEPRRN
October 1985



- 27 -
TABLE  3.4
HIAM
TRAIW iRT  "1 FAMCT I001-2)
PRO.ET COST SU!
(tNES'O000)                                 CtUsS I0
Z Total                                  T Total
1 Foreisn  Ba                            Z Foreign Base
Lowal  Foreign  Total   E danr.  Costs   Local Foreign  Tatal  Ekearge  Costs
A. OADS ANlO RlES - DOT
1. CIVIL VORKs - SCR
Bridge Rehbilitation                              9952.5 29P9S7.5 399810.0       95     37 1990.5 5.971.5 79962.0         .5      37
Bridge Constriution                               3,015.0 12,060.0  15,075.0     80     14   603.0 20412.0 34015.0        80      14
Road Rehabilitation-rth Road                      7,014.0 16v36.0  2393B0.0      70     21 1,402.8 3W273.2 4.676.0        70      21
Sub-Total CIVIL UUS  - SCI                         19tM1.5 583293.5 789265.0        74     72 3,996.3 11656.7 159653.0       74     72
2. EDUIPENT, SEP   (Road Raintence                    359.0 6,921.0  .l190.0        95      7    71.8 1,364.2 1,436.0        95      7
3. ENIERD  AND  MEISlI-ROAS MD BR                     668.4 3.674.6  4,343.0        95      4   133.7   734.9   968.6        95      4
4. Tedrcnal Assistance III/SEFRRN)                    331.8 6P303.3  S6635.0        95      6    66.4  1,260.7 1,327.0       95      6
Sub-Total ROOS AN1 IRIlES - DOT                       :19340.7 75082.3  96423.0       ?B    89  4,268.1 15,016.5 1Y9.24.6       78     89
3. WtITIDE SERVICES AND FACIUTIES - SENAIWI
1. CVIL I3IS
Slipua   Yard                                    1,209.0 44936.0  6,045.0       80      6   241.9   967.2 1 209.0        so       S
Training Center                                    412.5   962.5  1P375.0        70      1    32.5   192.5   275.0        70       1
Sub-Toa CIVIL UCS                                  1i621.5 50793.5  7,420.0         78      7   324.3 1159.7 1494.0       7l
2. TechnicaL Asistance SEIW                            Y2.0  1768.0  2P720.0        65      2   190.4   353.6   544.0        65      2
3.*ENIIEERIIE AMD SWVISI-SEIIM                        218.0   372.0  1,090.0        s0      1    43.6   1?4.4   218.0        80      1
Sub-Tatal   ITIIE SERICES AND FACILITIES - SEWNA       20791.5 9S438.5  11t230.0      75      10  5W8.3 1,S8'.? :2.46.0         75     10
C. PIRT IllP0BEaElt Slimy - Wit
1. El61ERIING SIUDIES ID DE5I-FSEIJIUE                122.5  l.102.5  1 225.0      90       1    24.5   220.5   265.0        90      1
Sub-Total OeRT DU'RBET STUDY - APN                       122.5 I102.5  l1.5.0        90       1    24.5   220.5   2C5.0        90      1
Total DA IIE COSTS                                      24P54.7 8t623.3 1089s7M.0       78    100 4950.9 16924.7 21.775.6        79    100
Phisical Cotir.gecies                                 1,496.7 5579.1  7,075.7       79       6   299.3 1.115.8 1,415.1        79      1
Prce CORtingC1ies                                      897.2 3,182.3  4,079.6        78       4   179.4   636.5   915.9        78      4
Total PGlEET COSTS                                      26M648.6 93,384.7 120'033.3     7B    110 5,329.7 18976.9 24,006.7       79    110



HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT (REV-2)
SUMNARY ACCOUtJTS COST SUHMARY
(GOURDES '000)                                     (US) '000)
Z Total                                         Z Total
% Foreign  Base                                 % Foreiun  Base
Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
I. INVESTHIENT COSTS
A. CI'VIL WORKS                        21,603.0 64i082.0  85Y685.0           75       79  4i320.6 12,816.4 17s137.0          75       79                        c
B. EOUIPMENT                               359,0  6S821.0   7,180.0          ?5        7     71.8  1,364.2  10436.0          95        7                         1
C. ENGINEERINO I SUPERVISIONI            1008.9  5,649.1   6,658.0           85        6    201.8  1129.8  1,331.6          85        6
n. TECHNICAL ASSISTANICE S TRAIIItING    1,283.8  8i071.3   9Y355,0          86        9    256.8  1i614.3  1,871.0          86        9
Total BASELINE COSTS                        24,254,7 84,623.3 108,878.0          78      100  4,850.9 16,924.7 21,775.6           78     100
Phusical Contingencies                    to496.7  5J79.1   71075.,7         79        6    299.3  1,115.8  1,415.1           79       6
Price Continiencies                         997.2  3/182.3   4J079.6          78        4    179.4    636.5    815.9           78       4
Total PROJECT COSTS                         26,648.6 93,384.7 120,033.3          78      110  50329.7 18t676.9 24,006.7           78     110
October 28, 1986  20:07
LI



HAITI
TRANORT V   PROM ECY  REYV21
WEDOWIN OF SLW       Y ACCOWITS
(LES '0001
list Costis                        Phiycal Contingencies                  Price Continienciecs                   Total Incl- Cont.                 Phisical
Local                                     Local                              Local                                   Local                         Price Cent.  Price Cont.
(Excl.  Duties I                           (Excl. Duties I             For.  (Excl. Duties I                         IExcl,  Duties I               on Physical    en 3m
For. Exch  Tiaxes)  Tfxes    lotal    For. Exch. Tixes)  Taxes   Total    Exch. Taxes)  Taxes   Total  For. Exch. Taxes)   Taxes    Total                           Cant.          Costs
33333283f3  :,,,,,: 33333333 33233333   33332383 3 SIE3332 1t2i333S 3383333  3333   333333 33333383  33383  3133333333  3333383  23332533 33338fl"  3233333333   *fls3s333333
I. INWSTMENT COSTS
__...........
A. CIVIL  MRRS                               1231MI4 44320.6              17,137.0         864,9  260,4              1 125.3  4t1.9  159.5              640.4    14,163.2 4.739.5               113902.6        1,166.4        17,736,2
to MIPIENT                                    14364,2    71.8           -  11436,0          68.2    3.6           *    71.8   50.5    2.7                53.2      It12.?    73.0                1,561.0           74.3         14"6.6
C. ENlIEKINS I 9UPER9I19N                     14129,1   201.,               14331.6          84.3   13.0          -    97.3   42.1       7.6          -  49.7      19256,2   222.4               10473,6          100.6         1137110
D. TECHICIL ASSITIICE I TRAINING              1,614.3   ,.ai8           -  1,971.0          ".4   22.4            -   120.0   62.0   10.7             -  n.7      1774.6    29.9            -  2,064.5           125.2         1,939.2
Totil IN'I3TNCNt COSTS                          16,924.7 4.850.?             21,775.6       1,115.8  29S.3              10415.1  636.5  179.4            -115.9    18,676.9 5,329.7              - 24400607        1446.6         22,540.I
Total                                            16,924.7 450.9              -21,775.6        11115.8  29.73            1,415.1  636.5  179.4             -8l5.?       18,676.9 5329.7            -249006.7          Is4U.6        22,540.1
... ..         ........ _I.......... *.................................................. ........................................ ................................................ _.__... _._......
October 28 1916 2^:07



HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT (REV-2)
Su&marv Acounts bt Year
Totals Including Contingencies                 Totals Including Contingencies
(GOURDES '000)                                   (USs '000)
--.--------------------                        .. .. ... .... .. . ............
1987     1988     1989      1990    Total       1987    1988    1989    1990    Total
:::zg:zsa  333::ua  .a.  m_-u :.:u      " 38 : s urn.::: :a:::: ::::::: u.s.:.: 3.::::a:
I. INVESTHENIT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                        25,399.6 30,844.1 26.273.1 11,991.4  946513*2  5,079.9 6b169,8 5,254.6 20398.3 19.902,6
B. EQUIPMENT                           16530,4  3,121.6  3,152.8          -   7,804o8    306.1   624.3   630.6         -  1,561.0
C. ENGINEERING I SUPERVISION            1,999.1  2,600.9  1986.6    916.6   7.393.0    397.8   520.2   377.3   183.3  10478.6
DO TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE I TRAINING    2.021.6  3,504.1  4,164.9    631.9  10,322.4    404.3   700.9   933.0   126.4  2,064.5
.- . .             .         ..     ... ...   ... ...       ....... ....... ...............
Total PROJECT COSTS                       30.940,7 40,075.5 35,477.2 13,539.9 120,033.3  6,198,1 8015,1 7,095.4 2,708*0 240006,7
Total PROJECT 3C533333  3333333 3333133 33,7 .213,39.93 12,33.33  6133.133333:05.   .780  400
October 28, 1986 20:07
0W



HAITI
tRAHSPCRT VII PRMAECT (REV-2)
Project Coeonents by Year
Totals Includins Continiencies                  Totals Ineluding Contingmnies
(GOURMS '000)                                     (WS  '000)
. ...... ....................................... ..................... .......................................... 
1987     1988      9M       1990    Total        1997    1998    1989    1990    Total
:xsumumu :z:uzssw   *usz:ass *U2:aUU    2a22=S ::- ::::::: :::::::     u. *:: : ::u:_ux *uuuzx:u
A. RODS MND BRIDGES - DDI
......_............
1. CIYIL hIRIMS - SCR
Dridge Rehabilitation                                   10o606,9 12,980.9 13,110.7  6,820.9  434319,5  2,121.4 26596.2 2r622#1 1.324o2  9,663.9
Bridge Construction                                       3,519.3  5,383.7  5,437.5  3,661.3  18,001.7    703.9 1,076.7 1,097.5   732,3  3,600.3
Road Rehabilitation-North Road                            9,777.0  9,971.1  54035.4          -  24,793.6  1,955.4 1,W9492 1007.1          -  4p956.7
.........  ............ ........  ............ ....... . ..  ........ .............. .... ........  ............. ........
Sub-Total CIVIL  MORXS - 9CR                                234903#2 28t335.8 23#583.7 10,282.2  86,104.8  40780#6 5,667.2 40716.7 2P056.4 17,221.0
2. EQUIPMENT, SEPRRN (Road Maintenance)                      1.530,4  3,121.6  34152,8          -   7,004.8    306.1   624.3   630.6          -  11561.0
3. ENGINEERING AND SUPERVISION-ROADS AND BR                  1,194.8  1,516.2  1,380.3    674.9   4,756.2    237.0   303,2   276,1   135.0    951.2
4. Technical Assistance (DDT/SEPRRN)                         1.414,3  29894,7  20913,5          -   7,212.4    282.9   576,9   582*7          -  144245
~~~. . .  _..... ........ ..... ... ........ .. .......  ........ ....... ....... ....... ........ ,
Sub-Total ROADS AND BRIDGES - DDT                              28POZ2.6 35.858.2 31,030.3 10,957.1 105,879.2  5606.5 7,171l,6 6206.1 2.191.4 21,175,6
B. MARITIME SERVICES AND FACILITIES - SEMANAN
.......................... ..................................... .. 
1. CIVIL  MS
. . .......
SliePay I Yard                                            1,349,9  2.065.0  2,085.6  1W404.3   6,904.8    270,0   413.0   417.1   280.9  1381.0
Trainini Center                                             146.5    448.3    603,8    304.9   1.S03.6        29.3    89.7   120.8    61.0    300.7
Sub-Total CIVIL UCRIS                                        1,496,4  2,513.3  2P689.4  1,709.2   8,408,3    299.3   502.7   537,9   341.8  1,681.7
2. Technical Assistance SEANAPH                                607.4    619.4  14251,3    631.9   3,110,0    121.5   123.9   250.3   126.4    622.0
3. ENGINEERING AND SUPERVISION-SEMANAN                         232.3    355,4    359.0    241.7   1.198,4        46.5    71.1    71.8    49.3    237.7
....... .. .... ..... .........  ............ ......... ............  ...............  .......  .......... ....... .......... ..... .......... .
Sub-Total MARITIME SERVICES AND FACILITIES - SE"ANAH            2,336.1  39488,2  42996  2,582,9  12,70607    467.2   697.6   859.9   516,6  2,541.3
C. PORT IIhROUENEHT STUDY - APN
.  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1. ENGINEERING STUDIES AND DESIN-ARENIE                       572,0    729,1    147.3          -   1,448.4    114.4   145.8    29.5          -    289.7
.... ..... ... .... . ... .... . ....... ....... .........  ............. ....... .......... ....... .......... .......... .................
Sub-Total PORT IIPROVEMENT STUDY - APN                            572.0    729.1    147.3           -   1.448.4    114.4   145.8    29.5          -    219.7
....... ......... .. .. ..... ........... ..........  ...............  .......  .......... .......  .......... ........
rotal PROJECT COSTS                                              30.940.7 40,075,5 35,477.2 13.539,9 120,033.3  6,188.1 8.015,1 7,095.4 2.70S.0 24,006.7
Ote2:1:: e::zz:-: r0:: r::5:::: :S:S:::::  sr::r:: r:::::: 0gs:r 7rr:::: ::::::::
_  ____._._________._____...........................................................................................______________........................................................__ ...__.______..................   
October 28, 1986 20:07



HAITI
TRANSPORT 'II PROJECT IRE'J-2)
Table 1. ROADS AND BRIDGES
Detailed Cost Table
Paie Casts in S                       Totals Including Contingencies
CUSS '000)                                    CUS 'O000)
---------  ..... ......... .. .. ......--------------------
1987    1988    1989    1990    Total         1997    1988    1989    199O    Total
1. IN'JESTKENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORkS
1. Bridge Rehabilitation                           1,990.5 2,398.6 2,389.6 1,194.3  ?t962.0  2,121.4 2,596.2 2,622.1 1,324.2  ,8663,9
2B Sridle Construction                               603.0   904.5   904.5   603.0  3,015.0    703.9 1,076.7 1,087.5   732.3  M3600.3
3. Road Rehabilitation                             1,870.4 1,870.4   935.2          -  i,676,0 1w955.4 1,994.2 1,007.1            -  4956U.7
,    ........  ........... ....... .......... ........  ........... ....... .......... ....... .......... .. ..... .......... ....
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                40463,9 5,163.5 4P228.3 1,797.3 15U653,0  4,780,6 5,667,2 4,716.7 2056.4 17,221.0
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Tools, Eauipment  for Road  aint tSEPRRN)         287.2   574.4   574.4             1436.0    306.1   624,3   630.6            -  1,561,0
.......... ... .... ... .... .. ....... ......... ....... .......... ....... ........... ........ .,.__........ 
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                     297.2   574.4   574.4          -  1i436,0    306.1   624.3   630.6           -  1,561.0
C. ENGINEERING S SUPERVISION
.. ....................
1. Oridge Rehabilitation                              99.5   119.4   119,4    59.7    398.1    106.1   129.8   131.1    66.2    433.2
2. Bridie Construction                                60,3    90,5    90.5    60.3    301.5         66.1   101.1   102.1 L8.8    338.1
3. Road Rehabilitation                                56.1    56.1    28.1          -    140.3      59.7    59,8    30.2               148.7
4. Tools, Iapleaents I Spares                          5.7    11.5    11.5          -     28.7       6.1    12.5    12.6          -     31.2
3ub-Total ENGINEERING I SUPERVISION                      221.7   277.5   249.4   120.0    868.6    237.0   303.2   27S.1   135.0    951.2
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Technical Assistance                              265.4   530.8   530.8          -  1,327.0    282.?   576.9   582.7           -  1i442.5
--.  .-. ........-
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                           265.4   530.8   530.8 9           1,327.0    292.9   576.9   592.7          -  1,442.5
----   ---   ------------   . ...... ....... .-....... .......  *---.......... ***-.
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   5,238.2 6,546.2 5,592.9 1I917.3 19294.6  5P606.5 7,171.6 6,206.1 2,191.4 21,175.6
Total                                                      5,238.2 6,546.2 54582.9 10917.3 19,284.6  5,606.5 7t171.6 6,206.1 2,191.4 21,175.6
O-::-:-1V r:V:.r::   r= :::9:r0  -. 0:        ::::::r :::rr:  :::rwr: :::r::: :::::r-
October 28. 198L 20:0'



- 33 -
TABLE 3.10
HAITI
TRANORT 'JII PRDOECT  REJ-2)
Table 2. MARITIHE SEICE FACILITIES
Detailed CoeS Table
Base Costs in S          Totals Including Contingencies
(lCt '000)                       (US% '000)
1987  1988  1989  19     Total   1987  1i88  1989  190  Total
I. INUESTNNT CMSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS - SEIANAH
1- Bloat Inspection: Repair                      241.8 U62.7 36.7 241.8 li20.0  270.0 413.0 417.1 220.9 1.381.0
2  Training &nterv  Facilities                   27.5  M  5110.0  55.0  275.0  2.3   9.7 12.   61.0  300.7
Sub-T;tal Cl'IL NORKS - SENANA                      269.3 445.2 471.7 296.8 1,424.0  299.3 502.7 53P7.9 341.8 1,681.7
B. ENOlNEERINS A   SAn JISIONSENTAH
1. E21  AND S   SEMANAM                          43.6  65.4  65.4  43.6  218.0  46.5  71.1  71.8  48.3  237.7
Sub-Total ENBIHEERIN  AND SWPER'JISI SEVMNAH         43.6  65.4  65.4  43.6   218.0   46.5  71.1  71.8  48.3  237.7
C. TEHNICAL ASSISTANCE-SOItNAR
1. Tech Ass and Traininr-SEMANAM                108.B 108.8 217.6 108.9   544.0  121.5 123.9 250.3 126.4    2.0
Sub-Total T'CHNICAL ASISTANCE-SENAIH                108.8 108.8 217.6 108.8   544.0  121.5 123.9 250.3 126.4    20
B. FORT IIPROVEE  STU  - APR
1. EN6 STUDIES AND DESION-JERENIE                98.0 122.5  24.5      -  245.0  114.4 145.8  29.5       -   289.7
Sub-Totzl PORT IHPRW IENT STUDY - APN                99.0 122.5  24.5     -   245.0  114.4 145.8  29.5      -  229.7
Total INVESThENI COSTS                                 519.7 741.? 780.2 44?.2 2491.0  581.6 843.5 889.4 516.6 2,831.0
Total                                                   519.7 741.9 780.2 44n.2 2t491.0  581,.6 843.5 889.4 516.6 2,731.0
October 28, 1986 20:07



TkIWI III 1UM WMI2
&mra kc,mt h Preet Count
ox  Aim wilus -sm     ssusr"tzw.-aw                                                                rt  50M
CIVIL M s                                                                         .. . . ........ ... . .                   _ _. ..  
................ ................... . .........CIVIL VW                                                                                              -                                Retel
lowd          ICUIhM :    DsI03SUIM  me    Tenhcal    -              *-          Tet                   O1US                                     CmtIi
3I4k         irid,    MblAltstaurlhrth  U              ed"   IV III-MfiA        Ailsistae   hlron a IfranileS   MIIIIM9    inlnumrn N                 IIwoS us
RA*dlitUeM Cmtrwstles              Rd             hlnmntl    MUMN                 IM1A1M)  lard  Cori SWm"   UIIW I -KMW    mEIIW E Tsual    I bmt
.uauaanammngaueamaaaaa ua.n.aauuuum...........sa..............u.  ,g   ... inu,   ,~ns    mnn,.n,a                                                        m,,ina          ,,,,,,,N   ,,,,,, ,,,,8,8,,,,,, ..
o. iw...c..
A. CIVIL WM                                19410.0    35P075,0               23:30.0              -                                -       45.  w3s75.0             -                    -                       n.o 31:4.4
I. ENII I                                         -            -                    *       7.10                     .             *          .        *            .                    .                       7*3.0   5.0   3.0    I
t. tMAK"03   a 1S1ISIO                            *            *                    -                                                                                                                 W M3* e  *  -  -  *  3 :90 e3225.0    6:0.0    7.  9.6   w
a. TIONICIL AIIStAMU  I                           *INII                                                                                                       2 *  .   -  0  2:7.0                                 :.1                 I    -
Total V4I1iO1 03t6                            39.930.0    15:075.0              23433.0        711.0              4:343.0       6615.0    6045.0 1*1,1570       20M.0 @                09.0              I12iU 0   106:310.0    6.1 7.01  PI
Total MUlE  a lls                              391310.0    15015.0              2M310.0         7.113.0            4.343.0       44,04   40451.0  3:375.0        2.72e.               I104.0              lii.t  3M371.0    6.5 7:075.7
fl,wUa  Ctts n:e                  ns 2:                 2:262.3                  701.4         319.0              248.3         333.3        04U5    68.        272.0                  54.5              353.3    7:075.7  0o0        0,0
P9icc CanitAu so                             I3:19.0        "5.5                 702.2         245.3              14A5          245.7       255.3    59.3        112.0                 41.9               39.6    4:079       6.3   W7.
Total  hCtl COSTS                              4031:.5    31001.7                24:n1.3        71104.0            416,2         7:2324    6194.0 13:036          til30.0              11111.4            1:44.4  13.03M.1    6.1 7tW.U
*"wwssuss"s ss|assnn *gwwswgwsswsee  w$sssss  ussastagsavass "a""   tsnss %I        "ss  1*227"  "28  _2                    n                "      _     naw 
fre in   uls                                32:4.4        4401.4              27.343,5       7W414.M 4:026,3                  4:5.3    5523,3  1052.5         2AM.5                   950.7            1WM.       H3o.3       6.2 5.M.9
Otier 231 Ilk 20107
rn



- 35 -
Table 3.12
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Total       Disbursement %
Credit Category           Project Cost      IDA Credit          Proosed IDA Credit
in millions
(US$ million)                            USS        SDR
Civil Works
Roads and bridges            (A)    15.65        802 of
Maritime Service Facilities (B)       1.48        construction
costs
Subtotal           17.13                               17.1      11.3
Equipment, tools and spares
Tools and spares for road             1.43 )      100Z of foreign         1.4       1.2
maintenance                             )     expenditures for
)     fimported goods, 100Z
X     of local expenditures
)     gex-factory) of local
goods; and 85% of other
local expenditures (off-
the-shelf)
Engineering, Supervision and Studies
Roads and Bridges            (A)      0.87 )      100% of
Maritime Service Facilities (B)       0.22 )      total costs
Port Engineering Studies    (C)      0.25 )
Subtotal            1.34 )                              1.3       1.1
Training and Technical Assistance
Road Transport               (A)      1.33 )      100% of
Maritime Services            (B)      0.54 )     total costs
Subtotal            1.87                                1.9       1.6
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 21.77       (84%)                   18.3      15.6
UNALLOCATED                           2.23                                1.7       1.4
TOTAL              24.01       (83%)                   20.0      16.6
1/ SDR 1=US$1.2103 (December 1, 1986)
Source: Project Files
December 10, 1986



- 36 -
TABLE 3.13
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Estimate of Credit Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ million)
Cmumulative Disbursement
Disbursed                   (US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year               by Semester
and Semester               (US$ Million)              Amount          Percent
FY 1987
June 1987                       2.4                     2.4 1/          12.0
FT 1988
December 1987                   2.8                     5.2             26.0
June 1988                       3,3                     8.5             42.5
FY 1989
December 1988                   3.1                    11.6             58.0
June 1989                       3.0                    14.6             73.0
FT 1990
December 1989                   2.0                    16.6            83.0
June 1990                       1.3                    17.9            89.5
FY 1991
December 1990                   1.1                    19.0            95.0
June 1991                       1.0                   20.0            100.0
1/   Expected effect of retroactive financing
Source: X-ssion estimates.
October 28. 1986



- 37 -
TABLE 3.14
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Maritime Services and Facilities
Monitoring Indicators
I. INSTITUTIONAL DE'VELOPMENT
Recruitment of local, permanent staft (3):                   March 1987
Contracting of Expatriate Professionals:                     June 1987
II. MARITIME FACILITIES
Maritime
Slipway                 Training
and Yard                 Center
Preliminary Studies and
Costs                                  Jan. 87                  Jan. 87
Detailed Engrg/Specs.                      March 87                 March 87
Bid Documents                              June 87                   June 87
Award of Contract                           Oct. 87                  Oct. 87
Completion                                 Dec. 89                   Dec. 90
III.  Training and Staff Development
Fellowships                   Able-bodied      Literacy
Calendar Year      Approved        Helmsmen        Seamen        Campaign
1987               2               5             10              50
1988               2              20             20             100
1989               2              20             30             200
1990               2              30             50             200
1991               2              30             50             500
Source: SEMANAH
October 1987



- 38 -
TABLE 3.15
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Schedule of Main Events in
Project Implementation
1.    Submission for IDA review the annual budget           June 30, 1987 and
allocation for routine and periodic road              each June 30
mnaintenance for SEPPRN.                               thereafter
2.    SubuLission for IDA review the annual budget           June 30, 1987 and
allocation for SEMANAH for FY88 and subsequent         each June 30
years thereafter.                                      thereafter
3.    Commencement of work by the following
consultants:
(i)  Transport management expert to study        June 30, 1987
the restructuring of DDT;
(ii)  Technical Management Staff to               June 30, 1987
strengthen SEMANAH.
4.    Implementation of the agreed international             October 1, 1987
ports tariffs.
5.    Submission for IDA review a technical                 June 30, 1987 and
assistance program for the development and            each June 30
implementation of labor-based technology for          thereafter
road construction, including the designation
of pilot sites in two different regions.
6.    Submission for IDA review of the recommerA'ed          June 30, 1987
cabotage ports tariffs.
7.    Implementation of the agreed cabotage ports            October 1, 1987
tariffs.
Source: Mission estimates
December 1986



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Transport Sector Investment Program (1986-1990)
Basis
1.       The National Transport Study (NTS)9 carried out in 1975-1977 by
consultants Louis Berger (USA) with UNDP financing and IDA as executing
agency, has served as the blueprint for the Government's investment strategy
in the transport sector in Haiti. The NTS recommended the following
priority investments in the sector:
(a) improved road maintenance;
(b) selected upgrading and rehabilitation of primary and secondary
roads and drainage structures; and
Cc) rehabilitation of selected coastal shipping ports and improvement
in maritime transport.
Transport Investments in 1976-1980 and 1981-1985 Plans
2.       The preceding priorities have been closely reflected in the
Government's two national development plans covering the periods 1976-1980
and 1981-1985, which allocated about 29Z and 16% respectively of total public
investment expenditures to the transport sector. Transport in both plans
was accorded third priority behind agriculture and energy. The following
significant achievements have been made to date:
(a) SEPRRN's road maintenance capacity and capability have been
strengthened to cover maintenance of 2,655 km compared to 1,450 in
1979;
(b) about 473 Im of the paved road system have been reconstructed and
rehabilitated (Annex 1, Table 1);
(c) about 1,600 km of secondary and tertiary roads have been
constructed or improved;
(d) some 70 bridges and culverts have been reconstructed or
rehabilitated; and
(e) the two international ports have been improved and reconstructed,
and ten coastal shipping ports have been rehabilitated.
These accomplishments, the major transport infrastructure is in place, with
very few exceptions, and NTS' principal objectives have been largely
achieved. The transport sector should, therefore, continue to receive a
diminishing share of public investment allocations in the 1986-1990 National
Development Plan.



- 40 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
Transport Plan (1986-1990)
3.        Transport investments in the 1986-1990 Plan should concentrate upon
the following:
(a) completing high priority projects carried over from the ongoing
plan;
(b) consolidating gains achieved in institutional strengthening,
particularly in the operation and maintenance of existing
facilities and services;
(c) continuing rehabilitation and reconstruction of selected
facilities; and
(d) preparing for future investments in the sector.
4.        The list of transport investments to be included in the 1986-1990
Plan has not yet been finalized; a preliminary list, currently under
discussion in DDT, is presented in Table 2 of this Annex. For the road
subsector, the proposals call for the upgrading of about 430 km of primary
gravel roads to paved standards, the rehabilitation of about 170 km of
existing paved roads, the construction or Improvement of some 1,100 km of
secondary and tertiary roads, the construction or rehabilitation of selected
drainage structures and feasibility and/or engineering studies for some
480 km of primary roads. The estimated total costs of these investments
would be about US$238 million in 1985 prices. For the ports subsector, the
proposals include, as major components, the expansion of the infrastructure
and installations at the port of Port-au-Prince and the acquisition of
additional cargo handling and maintenance equipment for the port, the
rehabilitation of five coastal shipping ports and additional facilities to
make the port of Cap Haitien fully functional. A total of US$44 million is
envisaged for these investments. For coastal shipping, the priacipal
investments include the construction and equipping of a training center, the
acquisition of a marine radio communications system and a slipway for vessel
boat inspection and repairs. A total of US$3.7 million is estimated. Last,
for the civil aviation subsector, the principal investments are concentrated
upon the extension and strengthening of the runway at Cap Haitien airport,
the expansion of the arrival and departure halls at the Port-au-Prince
airport, the provision of navigational aids at these two airports, and the
purchase of five trucks and emergency generators. A total of US$9.7 million
is envisaged for this subsector.
5.        The preceding proposals, at a total estimated cost of US$294
million, would cover practically the entire transport infrastructure needs
for Haiti for the next two decades. No attempt has been made to give
iriority to the investments or constrain their timing by financial or
implementation capacity. More than 60% of the proposed investments in the
sector, especially in the roads subsector, would be premature. For the roads
subsector, the highest priority investments would be: (a) the completion of
the bridge and culvert rehabilitation program; (b) the reconstruction of the
bridges at Fer-a-Cheval and Guayamouc (Hinche); (c) the construction of the
improvement and rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary roads, ah-it



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
800-1,000 km; (d) the upgrading of the Mirebalais-Pont Sonde Road;
(e) the rehabilitation of portions of the Port-au-Prince to Mirebalais Road;
and (f) feasibility and engineering studies on about 200 km of roads. The
estimated cost of this reduced program would be about US$110 million, of
which about US$77 million would be in foreign funds. The selected
investments are linked directly with the provision of access to and from
agricultural areas-the primary focus of the 1986-1990 National Development
Plan-and the main consuming or export centers.
6.        The highest priority investments for the port and maritime
subsectors would be: (a) the provision of maintenance equipment for the
country's improved ports, in particular the port of Port-au-Prince; (b) the
completion of facilities at the Cap Haitien port; (c) the rehabilitation of
the Jeremie Port; (d) the provision of a radio communication system for
SEMANAH; (e) the installation of a slipway for vessel inspection and repairs;
and (f) the construction and equipping of a training center for SEMANAH. The
need and scope for expanding the Port-au-Prince Port and its facilities will
depend upon the Government's plans to create an industrial free zone. The
proposed rehabilitation of additional coastal shipping ports should be
postponed until the ten already improved ports are better utilized with the
strengthening of SEMANAil's management and the introduction of a more suitable
pricing of coastal port services. The resulting investments for the port and
maritime subsector would cost an estimated US$13 million.
7.        Apart from the proposed major investment for modernizing the
Cap Haitien Airport (an estimated US$8 million equivalent), expected to be
financed by the Caisse Centrale (France), the proposed investments in the
civil aviation subsector are relatively minor and justifiable. The
modernization of the Cap Haitien Airport is not a high priority compared to
other needs in the sector. It is, therefore, recommended that only about
US$2.2 million be invested in the civil aviation subsector.
8.        A reductd list of transport investments along the lines described
in Table 3 of this annex would cost about US$125 million.
9.        Actual local contributions to capital and recurrent expenditures
for the transport sector during the past three years and the projections for
the next plan period are shown in Table 4 of this annex. The projected
recurrent costs during the plan period, an average of some US$20.2 million
per year, would represent an increase of about 7X in real terms over the
average annual recurrent expenditures over the last three years. If the
Government cuts down its transport investments for the 1986-1990 Plan as
recommended in paragraphs 5 through 7, an estimated total capital expenditure
of about US$125 million, with a local counterpart funds requirement of about
US$37.5 million, would be required. This assumes about 70% financing by
foreign donors who finance practically all of Haiti's capital investments in
the :ransport sector. The resulting financial requirements for the sector in
terms of foreign and local capital and recurrent funds are presented in
Table 4. The Government's expected contribution in real terms would be
slightly reduced in comparison with previous planning periods. Historically,
only about 60-70% of the investments in the transport sector plan have
actually been implemented during the plan period, and the situation is not



- 12 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
expected to be different for the 1986-1991 plan. Therefore, it is
anticipated that actual investments in the transport sector will be much less
than those during the past decade-a reflection of the reduced needs for
investments in major trausport infrastructure.
10.       The above recommendations and analyses do not give preeminence to
the interests of the various donor agencies which finance the transport
sector's investments. In most cases, it would be difficult for the
Government to persuade itself and the responsible donors to direct the funds
to other higher priority investments. Finally, whether the Government can
finance even the relatively modest sums can be assessed only within the
context of the overall 1986-1990 National Development Plan and its funding.
October 1986



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Table 1
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
List of Paved Roads
Road Name                            Length
(km)
* Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien                  250
2.  Port-au-Prince to Les Cayes                   180
3.  Grande-Goave - Jacuel                          43
Total                                         473
Source: DDT
October 1986



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Governament's Preliminary Transport Sector Investment Program (1986-1990)
A. Road Subsector
(a) Studies
Road Name                                 Lengh        Estimated Cost
(USS MilUon)
1.   Gros Horne-Port de Paix                     50                 0.6
2.  Croix des Bouquets-Malpasse                  45                 0.6
3.   Belladere-P6ligre-Mirebalais                74                 0.9
4.  Hinche-Pignou-St. Rafael-
Grand Rive du Nord                       91                 1.1
5.   St. Rafael-St. Michel                       21                 0.3
6.  Hinche-Cerc'i-la-Source-
Ouanaminthe-Grand Trou du Nord          134                 1.7
7.   Undefined                                   61                 0.8
Subtotal                                   476                 6.0
(b) Construction/Improvement
1.   Gonaives-Gros Morne                         25                 9.0
2.   Gros Morne-Port de Paix                     50                18.0
3.   Croix des Bouquets-Nalpasse                 45                 9.0
4.   Jeremde-Baradlres                           99                33.0
5.   Baradfres-Miragolne                         74                28.0
6.   Rte. No. I-Arcahale                          I                 1.0
7.   Hirebalais-Pont Sonde                       74                29.0
8.   Hirebalais-Hinche                           60                19.0
Subtotal                                   430               146.0
(c) Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
1.  lAoglne-Aquin                               100                12.5
2.   Limbe-Cap Haitien                           25                 3.1
3.   Shada-Mirebalais                            46                 9.5
Subtotal                                   171                25.1
(d)  Secondary and Tertiary Roads
Department                               Length         Estimated Cost
(Cm)          (USS Millioa)
North-East                                 128                 7.0
North                                      128                 7.0
North-West                                  97                 5.3
Center                                     163                 9.0
Antibovite                                 123                 6.8
West                                       166                 9.1
South-East                                  63                 3.5
South                                       60                 3.3
Grands-Anse                                170                 9.4
Subtotal                                 1,097                60.4



- 45 -
ANNE 1
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
B. Port and Maritime Subsector
(a)  AP
Investment Title                                       Estimated Cost
(USS Million)
1.  Construction of Wharf at St. Luis du Nord                       0.5
2.  Rehabilitation of Jeremie Port                                  1.5
3.   Rehabilitatloa of Wharf at Mont Luis Port                      0.0
4.   Rehabilitation of Wharf at St. Marc Port                       0.L
5.   Rehabilitation of Wharf at Les Cayes Port                      1.0
6.  Rehabilitation of La Tortue Port                                1.0
7.   Rehabilitation of Port of ILle A Vache                         1.0
8.   Miscellaneous at Port of Port-au-Prince                        1.4
9.   Drainage and Water Pipes at Port of Cap Haitien                2.3
10.  Water Tank at Cap Haitien                                     0.8
11.  Expansion of Port of Port-au-Prince                          19.8
12.  Equipment and Installations at Port-au-Prince                14.6
Subtotal                                                     44.0
(b)  SEMANAH
1.   Radio Communications Equipment                                 1.3
2.   Slipway and Yard for Boat Inspection                           1.4
3.   Training Center and Equipment                                  1.0
Subtotal                                                      3.7
C. Civil Aviation Subsector
Investment Title                                       Estimated Cost
CUSS Million)
1.   Expansion of Terminal Building Halls at
Port-au-Prince Airport                                     (.4
2.   Equipment and Facilities for Port-au-Prince Airporc            1.3
3.   Modernization of Cap Haitien Airport                           8.0
Subtotal                                                      9.7
Summary (A + B + C)
Estimated Cost
(USS Million)
I.   Road Subsector                                              237.5
2.   Port and Maritime Subsector                                  47.1
3.   Civil Aviation Subsector                                       9.7
Grand Total (A 4 B + C)                                     294.3
Source: DDT
November 1985



- 46 -
Table 3
Man
rusp          stl PROECT
R coameded Tra _ rt Investment Program
(191 -1990)
A.  Road Subector
(a)  Enginering Scudies & Da-e
Road K n                                Length          EKatited Cost
(W)             CUSS Million)
1    Grow NMornPort de Pali                     S0                   0.6
2    Rincbe-St. Iaphael-Trou du Nord            91                   1.2
3.   Kirebalaia-Delladare                       74                   0.9
Subtotal (a)                              215                   2.7
(b)  ConarructionJiebabilitarion
1.   KIrebalaiu-Pont Soude 1/                   74                  38.0
2.   Trou Caymn-Terre  Ange Z                   it                   6.0
3.   Secondary and Tert:ary Roads              750                  36.0
4.   Bridge and Culvect Rehabilitation Z/        -                  20.0
5.   Equipment and Tools 2/                      -                   2.0
6.   Technical Assistance and Training 21        -                   5.0
Subtotal (b)                               684                107.0
Su ary Roads                                                  109.7
S.  Port   nd M   riatim  Subseetor
Dovestuenc Irem                                         Estinated Cost
=USS Killion)
(a)  APH
1.   Port Maintenance and other Equipment                            2.0
2.   Repair of Jerenie Port. including Eagrg. 31                     1.0
3.   Kiecellaneous itesa  for the Cap RN  tien Port                  3.0
4.   Rehab of La Tortue and Ule 1 Vacbe ports                        2.0
S.  Technical Asaistance and Data Procemsing Equip. if               1.0
Subtotal                                                        9.0
Investment Item                                         Estimated Cost
(USS MillIon)
(b)  SEIWMA
1.   Coastal Radio D..unicetions and Y avaids Z/                    I
2.   Sllpway and Yard. Boat Inspection 2/                           1.c
3.   Training Center and Equipment 21                               1 .
c.   Technical Assist.. Institcutional Strencchenini  2/            0.5
Subtotal                                                       ;.?
Summry Ports and Maritime Services                            13.1
C. Civil Aviation, Subsoecor
i.   Expansion of Terminal Building Hall at
Port-mu-Prince Airport                                     0.4
2.   Equipment and Facilities for Port-au-Prince Airport            1.2
3.   Safety Equipment at Cap Nlatien Airport                        0.5
Summary of Civil XviatLnn                                      2.2
Summary (A * B | C)
A.  Road Subsector                                                109.7
B.  Port and MarittUe  1.'  c r                                    l3.1
C.  Civil Aviation S'-:.r                                           2.2
Grand Tocal (A -   -                                         125.')
It  Proposed IDB-financed rece
21  IncLuded in the proposed IDA Transport Project
T/ Engineering. Studies and Design only included in Transport VI1 Project.
Source: DDT
October 1985



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Total Annual Expenditure for Transport Sector
(US$ Million)
Year                     FY84-86    FY87    FY88    FY89     FY90     FY91   FY87-FY9
Capital Investments               55.0    15.0    25.0    30.0      30.0     25.0     125.0
Foreign (A)                       28.4    10.5    17.5    21.0      21.0     17.5      87.5
Local (8)                         27.1     4.5      7.5     9.0      9.0      1.5      37.5
Recurrent Expenditures tC)        56.9    21.5    20.3    20.3      19.6    19.1      100.B
Total Local Funds CB + C)         84.0    26.1    27.8    29.3      28.6     26.6     138.3
Total (Capital + Recurrent
A + B + C)                 112.4    36.6    45.3    50.3    49.6       44.1     225.8
Source: DODT
January 1986



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A.   Project Components
1.        The project is aimed at meeting Haiti's short and -..edium term
transport sector needs by completing infrastructure facilities prepared or
started under previous projects; filling the gaps created during planning or
implementation in the past; rectifying deficiencies in facilities that are
not performing as planned; and strengthening institutions established under
previous projects and consolidating the growth attained so far by others.
2.        Under the roads subsector, the components would include:
(a) continuation of the rehabilitation of bridges and drainage structures
started under the ongoing Sixth Highway Project, Credit 1220-HA;
(b) construction of the Fer- -Cheval Bridge which collapsed and the Guayamouc
Bridge which is unserviceable; (c) rehabilitation of about 35 km equivalent
of the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road deferred from the Sixth Highway Project;
(d) technical assistance to strengthen DDT's capacity in transport investment
planning and administration, and to improve labor-based/equipment-supported
road construction and maintenance.
3.        Under the maritime services subsector, the components in support of
Haiti's Maritime and Navigational Services (SEMANAR) would include:
(a) construction of a slipway and yard for the inspection and repair of
vessels; (b) construction of a maritime training school; and (c) technical
assistance to strengthen SEMANAR's operations and training of technical
staff.
4.        Under port improvement, the proposed project would assist the
National Port Authority (APN) with detailed study of the problems causing
siltation of the mooring basin of Jeremie Port, preparation of alternative
preliminary studies and, following IDA review and approval, preparation of
the detailed engineering for the remedial works.
B.   Roads and Bridges
5.        Rehabilitation of Drainage Structures.  Preliminary economic and
engineering studies were carried out by Consultants DIWI (Doctor Ing. Walter
International, Federal Republic of Germany) for about 350 bridges and
culverts under Credit 807-HA, the Fifth Transport Project. Of these, 57 were
included for rehabilitation and construction under the ongoing Highway VI
Project. The proposed project also includes the detailed engineering for ten
additional bridges and culverts in preparation for the second phase program.
However, only 26 bridges and drainage structures were rehabilitated because



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
of considerable cost escalation of the required rehabilitation works. The
continuation of the second phase program is necessary to provide access to
population centers and agriculturally productive areas which are currently
isolated because of the lack of river crossings. The proposed project would
provide for the construction of eight bridges, 27 box culverts and three
concrete fords. The structures are located on secondary and feeder roads
recently improved or selected for improvement in the immediate future. The
locations are listed in Table 3.1 of the text and shown on IBRD Map No.
19402.
6.        Bridge Construction.  The Fer-a-Cheval Bridge is the most important
of 11 bridges on the Nirebalais-Belladere Road, which continues to the border
with the Dominican Republic. The existing 70 m by 4.5 m bridge (consisting
of three spans of 23.5 m through steel trusses resting on masonry
substructure) collapsed in May 1983 due to scouring caused by flood flows
following unusually heavy rains. The piers and abutments subsided, and the
reinforced concrete decks are dislocated and damaged; the bridge is now
beyond repair. The Guayamouc Bridge lies just at the north exit of Hinche on
the main road linking Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien. The existing 135 m by
8 m steel suspension bridge is currently closed to traffic because of severe
corrosion of the cables and structural members. The Guayamouc Bridge was
included for rehabilitation under the Sixth Highway Project. However,
detailed investigation by the American International Bridge Company-the
builders-indicated the need for new construction because of the relatively
high cost of repairs and rehabilitation.
7.        The project would provide for the replacement of the Fer-A-Cheval
Bridge with an 80 m (4 spans of 20 m) prefabricated reinforced concrete deck
girder bridge, including 100 m approaches. The new Guayamouc Bridge would
also have a total span of 80 m (four spans of 20 m), and is designed as a
precast, reinforced concrete deck girder bridge. Following detailed site
investigations, subsurface exploration by the Building and Public Works
Research Laboratory (LNBTP), and technical and economic evaluation of
alternatives, ARTEC, the leading Haitian firm of bridge designers, prepared
the detailed design for the Guayamouc Bridge. The detailed engineering for
the Fer-a-Cheval Bridge is being prepared by DDT's bridge designers. The
subsurface investigations were conducted by LNBTP, and the design and
detailed engineering for both bridges are being supervised by DIWI
Consultants of Germany.
8.        Road Rehabilitation.  A priority rehabilitation and strengthening
program of some 100 km of the Northern Road (Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien)
was included under the ongoing Sixth HEghway Project, Credit 1220-HA.  The
road is Haiti's most important transport artery. In view of project cost
overruns and shortage of counterpart funds, it was estimated that only about
65 km equivalent could be completed with the available funds under the Sixth
Highway Project and the credit was accordingly amended to delete the
remaining 35 km. The project would provide for the rehabilitation, and
improvement on the 35 km equivalent of roads deleted from the Sixth Highway
Project.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
9.        Road Maintenance. With assistance from USAID and IDA since 1972,
SEPRRN has steadily established an effect-we road maintenan e operation. It
increased its maintenace capacity and expanded the network under effective
maintenance from about 2,000 km In 1981 to 2,600 km in 1985.  SEPRRN has also
adopted a systematic approach to planning, programing and monitoring of most
of its activities. Equipment availability has increased to over 80Z and
utilization of available equipment to over 90%. Support for SEPRRN needs to
be continued in order to consolidate the Improvements achieved. The proposed
project provides for continuation of technical assistance to SEPRRN for
institutional strengthening and staff training.
10.       SEPRRN, in particular, bas been expanding the secondary and feeder
roads network covered under its maintenance program. A separate unit has
been established for this, contracting with local communities to carry out
road maintenance by labor-intensive methods through the Community Action
Maintenance Program (CAMP). The proposed project supports the improvement of
labor-intensive uaintenance and methods by providing a Technical Assistance
Program (Annex 6) for staff training; development of labor-intenslve
techniques; construction planning and organization; cost accounting and
control; labor management; procurement of tools, implements and spare parts;
and selection and utilization of appropriate support equipment.
11.       Consultants Louis Berger International (USA) are currently
providing technical assistance for training SEPRRN's staff, using a program
acceptable to the Association; this will be continued under the proposed
project. The Technical Assistance Program for labor-intensive road
maintenance (Annex 6) was developed by an ILO expert who participated in both
project preparation and appraisal. Outline terms of reference for the
required services are included in Annex 8. The tools, implements, spare
parts and other appropriate equipments (Table 3.2 of the text) are necessary
to supplement those provided under the Sixth Highway Project for SEPRRN.
12.       Institutional Strengthening (Roads).  DDT's organizatioial
structure, including the job description and reclassification of its
professional positions, would be reviewed in the light of its expanding
responsibilities and in order to improve delegation of authority and work
distribution. The project would provide about six man-months of transport
management consultation to conduct a study and prepare recommendations
according to terms of reference to be agreed with the Government during
negotiations. Purther, DDT's Planning and Studies Service (SEP) would be
assisted by the project through the provision of two transport
economists/planners to continue strengthening SPE to carry out its assigned
functions and through overseas training for two of DDT's staff in
transportation planning and economics. Outline terms of reference for the
transport economists/planners is provided in Annex 9.
C. Maritime Services
13.       SEMWI&  was established in 1982 as part of the Government's
agreement under the Port Development Project (Credit 1121-HP) to foster and
regulate Haiti's merchant marine subsector. It hbas not received the



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
necessary Government support to carry out its functions effectively. Most of
the 50 motorboats and 403 sailboats that constitute the coastal shippingfleet
have no safety devices for passengers on board, and are often in a dangerous
state of disrepair. The Government's plan includes training of officers and
crews of the vessels, and progressive modernization of the fleet. Under the
proposed project, SEMANAR would be provided with: (a) staff training and
technical assistance to strengthen its administration and vessel inspection
and certification procedures; (b) a more permanent training center with
adequate facilities (Annex 3); and (c) a slipway and yard for boat inspection
and repairs (Annex 4).
14.       Institutional Strengthening (SEMANAH). SEMANAH's current permanent
professional staff consists of a Director General and an Administrative
Officer; Haitian professionals from other ministries, the university and the
private sector are engaged as consultants on an ad hoc basis. Under the
project, SEMANAH would recruit two full-time professional staff: a technical
operations officer to oversee SEMANAH's day-to-day operations and a training
officer to be responsible for the expanded training activities and
operations.
15.      The project would also provide for further technical assistance to
revise, as necessary, NEDECO's recommendations contained in the Final Report
of 1984 and to support SEMANAR in implementing them. An aggregate of
eighteen man-months for a coastal shipping expert (12 man-months) and a
training expert (six wan-months) would be included. Outline Terms of
Reference for the experts and their required expertise are presented in
Annex 9.
16.      Training Center and Facilities.  Over the past two years, SEMANAH,
using a curriculum of courses approved by the International Maritime (IMO),
has trained 20 helmsmen and seamen using part-time instructors, an abandoned
trailer and a boat contributed by the Government. The agency plans to train
100 captains and 200 able-bodied seamen between 1986 and 1991. The project
would provide for the construction and furnishing of a training center and
the procurement of a list of training facilities.
17.       Slipway and Yard for Boat Inspection.  One of SEMANAH's main
responsibilities is the organization of safety and all necessary measures for
the periodic inspection, certification and registration of boats and vessels
operating in the territorial waters of Haiti. SEMANAH, at present, does not
have an adequate facility for this purpose. The proposed project would,
therefore, provide SEMANAR with a slipway and yard for the inspection of
small boats of about 500 tons, consisting of a simple marine railway or a
lifting device, and a modest yard for carrying out minor repairs and
maintenance of small boats of about 500 tons.
18.      Engineering Design for Repairs of Jerenie Port. The expansion of
the cabotage port of Jeremie commenced mnder Credit 807-BA, and the cost
overruns were financed under Credit 1121-HA. The expansion consisted of a
pile-supported reinforced concrete wharf backed by a solid fill area 60 a



-52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
wide and 120 m long. Inadequate evaluation of the site conditions during
design resulted in the dredged slip along the wharf being completely silted
in during the first year of operation, reducing the draft from four meters to
less than one. The northern and eastern faces are unusable by the deeper
draft motorized vessels because of a rough revetment of large rocks. As a
result of the limited usable wharf space, boats often triple-berth, causing
hazardous situations and drastically reducing the wharf capacity. The
proposed proje':t would finance (a) consulting services for engineering
investigarior.e> including study of wind, wave, tidal currents and
sedimentation; (b) a study of alternative remedial works as well as the
economic teasibility of these alternatives; and (c) preparation of the design
and datailed engineering for the remedial measures and improvements.
October 1986



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Maritime Training Facilities
1.        The Service Maritime et de Navigation d'Haiti (SEMANAH) was
established on March 11, 1982 to regulate and promote the Haitian cabotage
and international merchant fleet. In 1985, SEMANAH trained 20 helmsmen and
seamen. This training was conducted in an abandoned trailer using part-time
instructors and a motorboat which had been confiscated by the Haitian Navy.
2.        The Haitian cabotage fleet contains 15 motorized vessels and 403
sailing vessels. With the exception of the recently inaugurated training
program by SEMANAR, there is no formal merchant marine training in Haiti. In
former years, Haiti provided craws to foreign vessels, but recent immigration
problems with the United States have put an end to that practice. SEMANAh is
attempting to obtain bonding for its trained seamen so that they can be
placed on foreign vessels without the vessel operator bearing the risk of the
new member jumping ship. If this attempt is successful, it will
Lncrease the demand for trained seamen significantly. In the interim,
3EMANAR has made plans to provide formal training for the 2,000 seafarers
-resently engaged in the merchant marine. This would be done in the period
from 1986 to 1991. To accomplish this goal, SEMANAH proposes to construct a
training center containing the following space:
Director's office              20 m2
Administrative office          20 m2
Teachers' offices              30 m2
Classrooms                    150 m2
Shop                           50 m2
Library                        50 m2
Conference room                80 m2
Estimated cost            US$265,000
Equipment                 US$ 60,000
Total                     US$325,000
The training facilities would be staffed by coastal shipping experts and
training experts who would simultaneously train/retrain the mariners and
train individuals selected as instructors.
3.        Upon completion of the retraining of the 2,000 mariners, it is
intended that new recruits to seafaring would be trained at the rate of 50
per year. It is intended that the formal retraining of the present
seafarers,and the formal training of new recruits, would greatly reduce the



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
human element in accidents in port and at sea. This program would complement
the slipway and repair facility and the effort to upgrade the standards of
boat construction and maintenance.
October 1986



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Inspection and Repair Facility for Small Boats
1.        The study of the cabotage trade during the National Transport Study
in 1977 concluded that safety regulations were sadly lacking. As a result of
that study, the Service Maritime et de Navigation d'Haiti (SEMANAH) was
established. This is a Government agency responsible for inspection and
certification ot vessels; training, testing and licensing of mariners; and
establishment and maintenance of navigational aids.
2.        The present Haitian ileet consists of 50 motor vessels in both
cabotage and maritime trade and over 400 sailboats in cabotage service.
There are no adequate facilities for hauling vessels for inspection and
maintenance. The exterior, underwater hull of the sailboats is maintained by
careening on the beach. One side i3 repaired and coated, and then the boat
is careened onto the otte. a;Z  for treating the remainder of the hull.  The
concentration of forces during these careening operations causes as much, or
more, damage t-^an the routine maintenance is intended to prevent.  The
smaller motorboats are serviced adjacent to the shoreline either by hauling
one end of the vessel onto the beach with a truck or tractor or by lifting
one end with a crane. When that one end has been serviced, the vessel is
reversed. This subjects the hull to excessive stress. The larger motor
vessels sail to small ship repair yards on one of the other Caribbean
Islands.
3.        There is one marine railway at the Naval Station at Bizoton,
originally constructed in 1927 and reconstructed in 1943. It was rated at
1,000 tons capacity. The carriage is of timber construction and has
deteriorated almost :ompletely. The underwater condition of the rails is
unknown. The railway has not operated since 1976. This marine railway is in
a very confined location at the extreme east side of the Naval Station.
There is high grade housing immediately adjacent to the Station, which limits
expansion. The small naval craft are hauled using the P&H crawler crane at
the commercial port. The larger naval vessels, which cannot be lifted by
this crane, are serviced at the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
4.        The intent of the proposed slipway is to utilize it for hauling and
inspection of vessels. If work is required or if the owner desires to
work, or have work done, on the vessel, it can be placed in a work bay
adjacent to the slipway. The owner can then do the work with the vessel's
crew, with day workers, or with the services of a contractor of his
choosing. The vessel owner wlll be charged for the hauling and launching and
a day rate for use of the work bay. This possibility is not available at the
Naval Station because of the arrangement of the marine railway, the confined
area at the yard and necessary security arrangements.
5.        The site selected for the proposed slipway is just east of the new
cabotage terminal at La Saline, approximately one kilometer north of the
international port at Port-au-Prince. The site was previously utilized as a



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
precasting yard by the contractor during construction of the new container
terminal at Port-au-Prince and again during the construction of the three
pilot projects for the cabotage ports and the subsequent program of seven
cabotage ports.
6.        If safety regulations and classification of vessels can be
enforced, it is expected that vessel owners would be able to obtain all-risk
insurance coverage which, in turn, would permit the owner to obtain financing
for newer, safer, more efficient vessels. The availability of the local
slipway would avoid the added cost for travel to a foreign yard for
maintenance, would reduce the risks and damage incurred by the present crude
methods of hauling or careening, might foster a new industry of construction
of steel vessels, and would encourage improvements in the standards of
construction and maintenance of wooden vessels.
7.        The construction of a slipway was investigated by NEDECO in
1983-1984, -Etude de Faisabilite Technique d'un Chantier d'Inspection et de
Reparation et d'un Combinaison avec un Chantier de Construction en Haiti."
The slipway would be procured by means of a performance specification which
would permit suppliers of patented systems to compete with suppliers of
custom built systems. The costs for the subsurface investigations and
preparation of the bidding and construction documents would be subject to
retroactive financing.
January 1986



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 or 4
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Summary of Economic Justification
A. General
1.        Reports on the economic feasibility studies for the major
components of the proposed project, carried out by consultants, are included
in the Project File. 1I The following summary is based upon the findings of
those studies, modified as necessary to reflect updated information, as well
as the appraisal mission's judgment.
2.        All costs (capital and recurrent) used in the analysis are based
upon expected January 1987 prices. Estimates of vehicle operating cost
savings are derived from Table I of this annex. Traffic data are derived
from country by MTPTC or consultants, updated to reflect past and expected
future growth.  Where applicable, estimates on maintenance costs are based
upon consultants' analysis and actual experience in Haiti. No shadow pricing
has been used in the analysis, except for the labor-intensive road
maintenance component. In that case, the US$1,000 per km per year paid to
the local communities is estimated to include a social financial transfer of
about US$500 km.
B. Bridge and Culvert Rehabilitation Program
3.        Economic studies for this component, carried out by consultaats
DIWI (Doctor Ing. Walter International, Federal Republic of Germany), compare
the benefits associated with bridge, culvert and ford rehabilitation with the
respective investment costs. Benefits considered in the analysis include:
vehicle operating cost savings on existing and generated traffic, savings
from reduced produce spoilage and reduction in accidents. The most important
benefits are from vehicle operating cost savings derived from the use of more
economical vehicles possible with the bridge or culvert improvements.
4.        The costs used in the analysis comprise the investment costs and
the differential bridge and culvert maintenance costs. In all cases, the
latter are relatively insignificant.
5.        The results of the economic analysis, based upon the above costs
and benefits, are presented in Table 2 of this annex, which shows, for each
structure, the economic rate of return (ERR), the benefit/cost ratio (B/C)
and the net present value. The foregoing analysis shows that road structures
selected for rehabilitation under the proposed project have ERRs ranging
between 16% and 87% and, therefore, that they are economically justifiable
and remain so even if costs are assumed to be 15% higher or benefits 20%
lower.
-01/  See Annex 10.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page Z ot 4
C. Bridge Coustruction Component
6.        Economic feasibility studies for the corntruction of new bridges to
replace the existing ones at Guayamouc (north of the norchern exit of Hinche)
and Fer-a-Cheval were carried out by consultants DIWI Walter, Inc. (Germany)
in 1984. The existing bridge at Guayamouc is currently in a state of near
collapse and open to only light vehicles. The Fer-a-Cheval Bridge collapsed
more than a year ago. Technical studies have indicated that neither bridge
is salvageable.
Guayamouc Bridge
7.        The economic analysis has been performed by comparing the most
likely "with' and -without' project scenarios. In the 'without' project
case, it has been assumed that heavy traffic originating from Port-au-Prince
to towns north of Hinche as far as Pignon would be forced to use road NRI
through Cap Haitien and that short- and medium-distance traffic destined for
these towns would have to be carried in animal-drawn carriages or passenger
cars and pickups. In the -with' project case, all vehicle types leaving
Port-au-Prince and the areas south of Hinche would be able to use the shorter
and less costly alternative through Hinche. The only benefits quantified for
the analysis are the voc savings to long-distance traffic. Only half of the
benefits estimated by the consultants were used in the mission's analysis to
reflect the expected development of the Cap Haitien port into the supply port
for the bridge's influence area.
8.        The costs used in the analysis are consultants' estimates of
investment costs and differential bridge maintenance costs. No residual
value has been included for the bridge after the 20-year analysis period-a
rather conservative assumption.
9.        The investment in the construction of the bridges is expected to
yield an ERR of 38.6Z. Sensitivity analyses based upon various alternative
assumptions of investment costs and benefits indicate that, with a cost
increase of 50%, the ERR is still 27Z and, with a decrease in benefitu of
50%, possible with more traffic diversion by the Cap Haitien port, the ERR
would be 20%. The construction of a new Guayamouc Bridge is, therefore,
justifiable.
Fer-a-Cheval Bridge
10.       The Fer-a-Cheval Bridge economic studies, also carried out by
consultants DIWI Walter, compare the investments and differential maintenance
costs of building a new bridge with the benefits therefrom. The quantifiable
benefits have been taken as the savings in transport costs "with" and
"without" the new bridge and the reduction in loss of agricultural produce.
It ir assumed that, without the bridge, motorized and animal traffic between
Port-au-Prince, through Mirebalais, and Belladere would have to take at least
a one-kilometer deviation during low-water periods aud wait during high-water
times, with consequent increase in transport costs and produce spoilage. In
the analysis, only the additional transport costs from the deviation and half
the consultants' estimate of reduced spoilage have been used.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
11.       The costs used in the a-alysis are based upon consultants'
estimates of investment and difftLential bridge maintenance costs. No
residual value has been included for the bridge after the 20-year analysis
period.
12.       It is estimated that the investment would yield an ERR of 22.7%.
Sensitivity analyses based upon various possible alternative assumptions of
investment costs and benefits indicate that the construction of a new bridge
at Fer- -Cheval would be economically justifiable.
D. Rehabilitation of the Northern Road
13.       The economic feasibility of strengthening and rehabilitating some
100 km of the Northern Road was carried out by consultants SEPEC (France) as
part of their o7erall paved roads improvement/rehabilitation study in Haiti.
The consultants estimated an ERR of 13% for the road works. With further
road deterioration over the past six years and more than expected traffic
growth, the feasibility of the roads has increased significantly.
14.       With the project, drainage systems would be improved, slopes
stabilized, deteriorated pavements would be rehabilitated and strengthened
and spot repairs and resurfacing made, as necessary. These works would yield
benefits in the form of vehicle operating cost savings to normal traffic and-
its subsequent growth and defer the need for major road reconstruction in the
near future. Traffic estimates for the analysis are based on DPT's recent
studies. A traffic growth rate of 5X per year has been assumed, less than
the actual 10 annual growth rate over the past seven years. Cost estimates
based on experience on the ongoing works on the road. The road works would
yield an ERR of 28Z which indicates that the investment is justifiable.
E. Assistance to SEPRRN for Road Maintenance
15.       Under the project, SEPRRN would be provided with additional hand
tools, at an estiaated cost of about US$1.6 million, to maintain secondary
and tertiary network labor-intensive methods. The economy feasibility of
this investment has been analyzed by comparing the total cost of maintaining
the network with the benefits therefrom. In addition to the costs of the
hand tools, an annual operating cost of US$120,000 for supervisory and
headquarters staff and an annual cost of US$1,000 per km for community labor
have been included. In the case of the community labor, only US$500 per km
has been used in the analysis to rt.flect overpayment for labor. For the
benefits, only those derived from savings in vehicle costs have been
considered; those associated with delaying postponement of road
reconstruction have not been included. The average traffic on the network to
be -maintained with the project goods is estimated at 15 vehicles per day in
1988, with a growth rate of two additional vehicles per year. The savings in
voc are based on Table I of this annex. It is assumed that, without the
investments, the voc on the roads would increase by 10% per year because of
progressive road deterioriation. This investment is estimated to yield an
ERR of about 37%.



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
F. SEMANAR's Slipway
16.       SEMANAH would be provided with a slipvay for boat inspection and
repairs. It is the Government's policy that all boats plying Haiti's
territorial waters carry a seaworthiness certificate. The economic
feasibility of providing SEMANAR with the slipway has been evaluated against
the alternative of having the Haitian boats use other facilities in the
region. The costs used in the analysis include the capital costs of the
slipway and yard, construction supervision and physical contingencies of
US$1.5 million and an annual operating and maintenance cost of US$70,000.
Benefits from the slipway include savings from having boats repaired
elsewhere. It has been assumed that the coastal shipping fleet in Haiti
comprises 100 motorboats and 400 sailboats and that the average annual
charges elsewhere for inspection and repair are US$1,000 for motorboats and
US$300 for sailboats.  It has been assumed that the traffic would increase by
a modest 2% per year. On the basis of these streams, the provision of the
slipway is expected to yield an ERR of 21% over its anticipated 20-year
economic life.
October 1986



-  61 -
HAITI                                     AJNNEX  5
Table 1
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(US cer.ts per km)
Type of                    GI           02          03 0g                   us 0g 
Vehicle
Passenger    0       14.4         1,73        2544        22.4        29.35       45.34        52.ft
Passenp'.er  0  dc      15.23        17.4S       26.44       24.00       31.11       40.06        54,0s
Cars          da g.    16.40          13.73       2.49        25.31       33,46      S1.9         40.20
4-Wheel         0        12.63        37.25       49.26       41.35       S44         SS.21        80A6
Drive         o   x      33.94        3874        51.23       43 "        S72 U       H S2         6410
VOehicles    Q  °        3S 5S        4*l7n       SS017       47,29-      a S2        74.U         91,15
Q        27.91        3132        40.44       38.12       44,U1        3.35        3.1
Pick-Un    0O  01        29.03        32.S4       42.27       40.4L       47.50       67.s         93.40
* ' g1    31.26         35,04       4S.52       43.46       SLO5        72n79       100.45
Tp              0        21.2S        23.97       32.61       29.60       3496        4Uff         59.97
*Tap-          0@ gX      22.31        2S,17       34.24       31.67       39.S3       52.30        64.17
Tap           n          24.23        27,33       37.13       34.04       42.43       S6,3         63.9
Mini-                    19.1         21.7        32.00       20.7S       34.45       49,42        45,67
X   Q  @t  20.12    22.1        33.60       30.7        41.14       53.09        70.27
Bus           g'' )      21.34        24.76       36.4.       33.04       44.22       5t7.0        75.52
J43.21               49.23       64.14       5926        33.33      117.1        14.79
Buses         0'         45.37        S1.69       49.4S       63.41       39.1       125,36       157.0
0          43.831       5S.63       74.74    ,".74          36,6       135.91       170.23
Passenger    u           S1.54        59.75       7S.2S       72.41       94.36      119.43       1".98
_rck              d      S..14        6274          01        77.69      100,97      121V.79      1 O
Truck         g' dM        .26        67.52       2s.03       3.23       109.46      13M 4        13602
LiT ht         *0        30.59        33.6S       4.37        40.0        S5,34       72.14        90.53
Livpt t      3  d%      32.12        35.33       40,69       43.4        S9.21       77.21        96.37
Truck         o-         34.57        3.02        S2.40       47.33       4419        83.71       105.01
Heavy          .         59.s         4.62        91.19       35..5      114.33     ISS1.7        213,74
62.43       72.05       95,7s        91.6S      122.33      144.4C      223.70
Truck         g0 g.i     47.24        77.s4      103.04       9.3s       112.,2       N0."        267.94
Q1: modern well maintained flat road with adequate drainage and a bituinous surface alloving
asy circulacion at average speeds of 70-80 ku/b for passenger cars and 60 km/h for mot
other vehicles.
Q2 Reasoably good bituminous road with acceptable level of caintenance, slightly deteriorated
riding surface. average speeds 60 and 50 kmth for passenger cars and other vehicles respectively.
Q3: Bituminous road with important damage on the riding surface, average speeds 40 and 30 km/b
respectively
Q   Good gravel road during dry season but with drainage problem  during rainy season. Average speed
45 ku/h for paSsenger cars but substantially slower after rain.
Q5: Gravel or earth roads with dauged riding surface, protruding large stones  nd pebble  and very
difficult sections after rain. Frequent changes in speed necessary even in dry season. Average
speed 25-30 km/h.
Q6  Road vith riding surface al=ost exclusively ir loose large stones.  ITpassable for light vehicles
during and imediately after rains. Average speed 15-20 km/h.
Q Rockv track or track through swampy terrain. During and after rain only passable by 4-vheel drive
vehicles. Average speed in dry season 10 km/h for jeeps and 5-10 km/h for trucks.
Q': Curvv bituminous surface road with longitudinal slopes of 3-6%.
Q': Curvy bituminous surface road with longitudinal slopes of 6-12%.
Q*: Curvy gravel road or track with longitudinal slopes of 3-67.
C_: Curvy gravel road or track with slopes of 6-122.
Source: DIWI
September 1985



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Su=ary of Economic Aualysis for the Bridge Rehabilitation Program
Net Present
Section   Name of koad Section           ERR Z   B/C Ratio        Worth
No.                                                            at 82
1.4     Crrf. Fort LUbert&-            16.8%    1,76:1        431.630,80
Ouanaminthe-Pont Massacre
2.1     Limb4-Port Margot              20.4Z    2,32:1        262.448,86
2.2     Port Margot-Borgne             36.21    5,48:1      4.636.210,51
5.1     Port de Paix-St. Louis du      33.91    4,01:1      1.889.765,23
Nord
8.1/2   Crrf. M6nard-Dondon-           33.8%    3,91:1      1.437.741,49
St. Raphael
8.3     St. Raphael-Pignon             16.2%    0,63:1
9.2     Hinche-Thowassique             18.3%    0,64:1
11.3     Crrf. Thomazeau-Mirebalais    24.0%    3,02:1       2.144.306,69
12.1     Mirebalais-Lascahobas         120.2%   35,52:1      5.485.503,48
16.1     Jacmel-Cayes Jacuel            24.1%      2,53:1      206.832,86
20.0     Cavaillon-Barrad8res           87.3Z      8,01:1      491.497,76
23.1     Jdrimie-Moron                  45.2%      5,59:1      616.529,31
23.3     Dame Marie-Anse d'Hainault    81.3%    11,83:1    1.461.139,88
Source   DDT
October 1985



- 63 -
ANEX 
Table 3
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
1988 Traffic Forecast for Gonaives - Cap Haitien Road (30 Ka Stretch
ADT and VOC Savings Estimate
Vebdl Tp
Fwr
_mr    -eled                1+  1-               _r  M*t Hmy
crs      eLle  p,d4   Map BUB   BO   Wud=  T               :    nik    Ttal.
Aver.g Ihily
Traffic (hAt)
WhLe/day          278         112    204    144    37    44        61       91      9      980
Veble   Certn
n (VxC)  SIwe
Relinb&Bol         0.15      0.34    0.29   0.22   0.ZD  0.45    0.54      0.32   0.62
*dst1g Bud         0.2B      0.56    0.46    0.37   0.36  0.75      85     0.52   L.03      -
Ved  ef
($) oDst (VOC)
San,gs. //veh      0.13      0.22    0.17    0.15   0.16  0.30    0.31    0.30  0L41        -
Sozce: EY Estimate of "'tDber 1985,
sFL; Sly for Paved  1aIs Raluitativo, 1981.
ftober 1966



-0  -64-                   ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Technical Assistance for
Labor-Based/Equipment-Supported
Secondary Road Construction and Maintenance
A. Existing Labor-Based/Equipment-Supported Road Works
1.       At the wage rate of US$2.60 per eight-hour working day prevailing
in Haiti, labor-intensive techniques are economically viable for rural road
construct:ion and maintenance. Over the past eight years, both USAID and IDB
have prrsvided funds for the construction of about 450 km of secondary roads.
Current projects would increase this figure to about 670 km by 1986.
2.       The labor-intensive works are generally carried out as individual
projects with management teams set up for each subproject. Certain basic
procedures have been developed, and a training manual mastery prepared.
However, no attempt has been made to develop a systematic capacity within
TPTC to plan and execute large scale labor-intensive works in the long term.
3.       The general standard of roads constructed by the labor-intensive
brigades varies widely from good to less than satisfactory. Project
management is lax, quality of workmanship is often poor and productivity is
generaliy low. These shortcomings have resulted in generally high and widely
ranging costs of between US$35,000 and US$45,000 per km.
4.       The reasons for the low productivity appear to be related to
(a) inadequate organization and management of the works, (b) ineffective
administrative procedures, (c) lack of financial or other incentives,
(d) inadequate and improper use of tools and implerents, and (e) inefficient
utilization of support equipment. A methodical stLdy and analysis of these
factors is planned under the program.
5.       The Service de Construction Routiere (SCR) started to coordinate
labor-intensive road constcuction efforts some two years ago. The Section de
Routes Secondaires (SRS) of SCR is currently responsible for managing and
coordinating labor-intensive secondary road construction. Therefore,
attempts to improve the efficienc- of labor-intensive construction would be
made directly through SCR/SRS.



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
6.        Analysis of the efficiency and performance of the labor-intensive
works shows that, compared with international standards, the use of
labor-intensive road construction techniques in Haiti has been quite
inefficient. It is therefore necessary to demonstrate the efficiency and
economy of these techniques, making it possible to establish proper systems
and procedures which would also serve to promote the use of these techniqucs
for other infrastructure facilities under rural development programs.
B. Labor-Intensive Road Maintenance
7.        Routine maintenance of the country's 1,890 km of unpaved roads is
carried out by labor-intensive techniques, taking two forms. The major part
is through "les brigades cantonniers," some 108 of which exist throughout the
country. These are direct labor gangs managed and supervised from the
District or Sub-District offices of MTPTC. This arrangement is reasonably
effective. The rest of the unpaved network, presently some 400 km, is
maintained by the Community Action Maintenance Programme (CAMP), which is
administered directly from Port-au-Prince.
8.        The objective of CAMP has been to mobilize local support for the
maintenance of roads which have been built by labor-intensive techniques.
SEPRRN pays to each federation a sum of US$1,000/km per year as a subcontract
for routine maintenance.
9.        The basic idea of CAMP is sound; however, it faces serious
problems relating to inadequate supervision and quality of the work, the
method and basis of payment, lack of administrative flexibility, and lack of
a defined level or type of maintenance to be provided.
10.       It is the Government's intention to extend the scope of CAMP to
cover unpaved roads which have been constructed by equipment. The rationale
is that SEPRRN is relieved of the responsibility for supervision and
organization and that the communities are involved in maintaining their
roads. Any effective expansion of CAMP would be consequent upon solving the
various problems identified in the preceding paragraph.
11.       Providing an effective maintenance system for pai %u kr gravel roads
would require that a planned program be developed using both direct labor and
CAMP. SEPRRN would,therefore, have to institutionalize maintenance
strategies and formulate policies for the maintenance of secondary roads as
well as bridges.
C. Objectives ('f the Technical Assistance Program
12.       The objectives of such a technical assistance program would be to:
(a) demonstrate the economic viability and technical efficiency of
labor-intensive techniques for secondary road construct-on; (b) provide an
improved framework for the more effective implementatioi' of CAMP;



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
(c) establish a system for proper selection and utilization of appropriate
support equipment; (d) formulate a continuing program for staff development
and training; (e) monitor and evaluate programs related to the efficient use
of labor-intensive techniques.
13.       The main components of the program would be:  (a) a demonstration
program for the use of labor-intensive methods for construction of about
60 km of secondary roads in two locations representing typical terrain,
soils, and climatic and related conditions affecting road construction;
(b) technical assistance to SEPRRN for road and bridge maintenance and to SCR
for road and bridge construction; and (c) provision of consultancy and
facilities for DDT's training program relating to all aspects of
labor-intensive construction of secondary roads, drainage structures and
maintenance of the network of roads and bridges. The project would provide
funding for items (b) and (c). Item (a) would be financed by the Government
and/or other financing agencies.
14.       Undc:r the program, about 60 km of roads would be built over the
four-year period using labor-based/equipment-supported techniques. The work
would be carried out by two or brigades comprising some 300 laborers each,
with the necessary supervisory staff, hand tools and appropriate equipment.
The two locations would be selected from among ongoing secondary road
programs or new roads in the Southwest, the Central Plateau or Northern
regions.
i.       The construction brigades would demonstrate the use of efficient
labor-intensive road construction. Existing problems related to
organizational, managerial and administrative procedures, cost accounting and
control would be addressed in order to provide the proper framework in which
labor-intensive methods would flourish. The introduction of incentives such
as task work" and improvements in site planning, reporting and control would
lead to an increese in current productivity levels and a consequent reduction
in costs.
16.       The program would be administered by SCR with the two ongoing
(UERA and PDRS) and Government-financed projects, which include
labor-intensive construction. The roads to be constructed would be chosen by
the SCR directorate in consultation with the chief project engineers of UERA
and PtRS. It would be important to set up a small working group, chaired by
the Chief of SCR, to ensure coordination of effort with relation to
labor-intensive operations
17.       The project would also finance technical assistance to SEPRRN in
relation to both the overall planning of its road and bridge maintenance
programs and to CAMP. SEPRRN has identified a general need to improve the
utilization of its computer systems for the maintenance program in relation
to spare parts inventory, maintenance interval records, cost accounting and
control payroll administration. In addition, there is a need to specify
levels of maintenance requlred for different types of roads, to define the
existing state of paved and unpaved road networks, and to allocate resources



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
and effective procedures for planning and execution of labor-intensive
maintenance tasks, improve the administration of the CAMP contracts, and
develop a system of payment related to the level of work to be carried out.
18.       The MTPTC Training School in Port-au-Prince, currently under
SEPRRN's responsibility, is proposed to come under the direct control of DDT
in order to make the school more accessible to both construction and
maintenance services. The program would encourage this goal by providing
training assistance in labor-intensive construction and maintenance training
programs directed specifically toward staff and labor on labor-intensive
projects, e.g., the use of locally available construction materials for the
construction of roads drainage structures.
19.       Staff training would be carried out on construction sites, and,
when necessary, demonstration areas would be set out. Foremen and works
superintendents would be trained at the construction site. In order to
facilitate field training at the work site, it is proposed that mobile
audio-visual video recording and display equipment would be procured and
mounted on a suitable vehicle, and that the running costs of the vehicle
would be financed for the duration of the project.
20.       The provision of hand tools and implements is based upon the
assumption that most of the tools and implements would be manufactured in
Haiti in the near future. Assistance would be provided to MTPTC in relation
to the preparation of the forecast of needs by type and volume Of tools and
implements to develop design standards and technical specifications, outline
manufacturing processes, and formulate procedures for procurement and
marketing.
21.       The Program would assist the Government in the formulation of
policies regarding to the expansion of labor-intensive techniques, the
execution of rural infrastructure works, and the administration, monitoring,
control and management of the labor-intensive methods for construction
activities.
22.       The Technical Assistance Program would be handled by one or two
experts who would cover the areas identified in the terms of reference
(Annex 9). It is envisaged that a total of '2-18 man-months of assistance by
expatriate and local consultants would be required. A detailed plan of
action for the technical assistance would be elaborated within the first six
months of project implementation by one of the experts, in close
collaboration with the Government. The Program would include the setting of
targets to a timetable, inter alia, for (a) productivities and derived costs
for individual road construction and maintenance activities, and (b) levels
of competence to be achieved through training to a defined number of trainees
and trainers. Actual progress in meeting these targets would be monitored
during project supervision. The level of success of the technical assistance
Government commitment would be measured by the extent to which targets are
being met and the success of the experts in making their services
dispensable.
October 1986



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
Page I of 3
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
APN's Financial Performance and Prospects
Recent Performance
1.        Although traffic over the last four years has grown more slowly
than expected, APN has managed, as a result of implementing recommended
tariff changes, to generate a surplus during every year after 1981. The
cumulative net surplus for the years 1982 to 1985 has been approximately $8.1
million, enabling APN to provide the counterpart financing required to
complete the last Port Development Project (Credit 1121-HA).
Revenues
2.        Revenues have grown, from 1981 to 1984, by about 18.7Z a year,
being the result of about 4% a year growth in traffic and a restructuring of
APN's tariffs, particularly those for containers. Provisional figures for
FY85 indicate an 8% growth in traffic, which, together with the switch to
more containerized traffic, generates a further surplus for that year.
Costs
3.        On the cost side, costs to date, which have been mainly labor
costs, have been, up to the current year, reasonably contained, even though
the labor force retained by the port is more than the traffic currently
passing over the public wharves justifies. However, capital investments in
the coastal shipping ports and in Cap Haitien, neither of which are yet
producing significant revenues, will increase the proportion of capital costs
as of this year. In addition, FY84 has also been the year of asset
revaluation, required under the last project, thus further burdening
depreciation costs for FY85 (Table 2 of this annex).
Financial Results
4.        A summary of the operating statements for the years 1981-1984 is
given below (see Table 1 of this annex for more details):
1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
(in millions of US$)
Total Revenue                7.08       8.57     10.26     11.84     13.40
Working Costs                6.07       5.30      5.20      6.54      7.52
Depreciation                 1.52       1.68      1.84      1.94      2.59
Operating Costs              7.59       6.98      7.04      8.48     11.11
Operating Ratio              1.07       0.81      0.69      0.72      0.77



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Wage Z ot S
Balance Sheets
5.        A summary of the last audited balances, for FY83 and FY84, is given
below:
ASSETS                             LIABILITIES & NET WORTH
(millions of US$)                          (millions of US$)
1984   1983                             1984   1983
Short-term Receivables      2.9    1.5    Short-term Liabilities   3.4    6.2
Long-term Debtors           0.5    2.0
Net Long-term           34.5   31.5
Net Fixed Assets            79.7   62.1
Other                        1.2    1.4    Net Worth                46.4   29.3
Total Assets                84.3   67.0    Total Liabilities &
Net Worth             84.3   67.0
Short-term receivables for FY84 above include almost US$1 million advances to
the Government and do not represent a worsening of collection of commercial
bills for port services. On the liability side, a solid equity-to-debt ratio
is evident.
Accounting and Auditing
6.        Under the Port Development Project recently completed, a completely
new accounting system has been introduced with the help of external
consultants and is now being processed externally. The completion of the
latter process is of paramount importance if billing is to be imfproved and
management to obtain timely information for decision making; it, therefore,
forms a part of the proposed new project.
7.        External auditors, approved by the Bank, have been engaged by APN
since 1981 with excellent results. Management letters from the auditors have
drawn managerial attention to many weaknesses in the system which are
currently being remedied.
Financial Forecasts
8.        Because international traffic has grown more slowly than projected,
existing port capacity should suffice for at least another decade.
Consultant studies, completed under the Credit 1121-HA Port Development
Project, indicate that APN must now concentrate upon making its operations
more efficient and achieving better management techniques and a reasonable
maintenance of existing facilities; it is to these ends that this project is
directed. Port-au-Prince is well located to attract transshipment container
traffic for the round-the-world services, in much the way the port of
Kingston in Jamaica is doing, but, if it cannot improve its efficiency and
reliability, it is doubtful that it will do so.



- to -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
9.        Traffic forecasts on which the financial projections have been
based are, therefore, most conservative and assume a growth of about 3-5% per
annum in port traffic (related to GDP growth forecasts and extrapolations
from the historic traffic trend), while some tariffs are initially reduced
for Ro-Ro containers in FY86 and thereafter retained at a lower level
throughout the project period.
10.       On the cost side, working costs, because of increased efficiency,
should grow at a diminishing pace, at 3% from 1985 to 1986 and only 2%
thereafter. However, the additional capital investments made in recent years
will mean an increasing weight of capital costs in the years to come
(Table 2 of this annex).
11.       Neither the rehabilitated port facility of Cap Haitien nor the new
cabotage ports are expected to cover their operating costs during the next
five years. In the case of Cap Haitien, the linking of the current AIDS
scare with the country of Haiti has, according to tour operators, made it
impossible to route cruises through Cap Haitien. Marketing efforts to be
made by APN, on the basis of a study recently completed, may bring about
limited resumption of the tourist traffic which has been lost in the last
year. As for freight, any such traffic coming to, or going from, Cap Haitien
will be deviated from Port-au-Prince and, thus, will create no additional
financial revenue for APN, although Haiti would still get most of the
economic benefits of using the North coast port.
12.       With regard to the rehabilitated cabotage ports, a study is
proposed, within the framework of this project, dealing with most economic
tariff policy to be pursued to promote the use of the new facilities. This
may well indicate that there should be no charge, or only a symbolic one, for
the initial period of their operation, until such time as the economic
benefits of using the new facilities become evident to their users. In any
case, the coastal shipping ports will continue to be a financial burden to be
borne by APN, possibly to be shared with some of the local authorities.
13.       Based upon the outlined scenario, the following is a summary table
of the projected operating results for the period 1984-1988, more detai's of
which are given in Table 2 of this annex:
1984      1985       1986      1987       1988
Actual                  Estimated
(in millions of USS)
Total Revenue                11.84      13.40     13.06      13.45     13.86
Working Costs                 6.54       7.67      7.90       8.05      8.21
Depreciation                  1.94       2.59      2.93       3.32      3.50
Direct Operating Costs        8.48      10.26     10.83      11.37     11.71
Operating Ratios              0.72       0.77      0.83       0.85      0.84
December 1985



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
APN Operations Statements 1981-1984 1/
(in million dollars)
1981      1982      1983       1984
Revenues
Public Wharves             6.33      7.72      9.36      10.29
Private Wharves            0.75      0.85      0.88       0.92
Others                                         0.02       0.63
Total Revenues             7.08      8.57     10.26      11.84
Expenses
Working Costs              6.07      5.30      5.20       6.38
Contribution
to SEMANAH                         -        0.07      0.16
Total Working Expenses    6.07       5.30      5.27       6.54
Depreciation               1.52      1.68      1.84       1.94
Total Operating Costs      7.59      6.98      7.11       8.48
Operating Surplus        -0.51       1.59      3.15      3.36
Interest Payments         0.33       0.36      0.37      0.41
Other Finance Costs                             .044     0.42
Net Surplus              -0.84       1.23      2.34       2.53
RATIOS:
Working Ratio 2/          0.86       0.62      0.51      0.55
Operating Ratio 3/         1.07      0.8i      0.69      0.72
1/   Years ending 31 September.
2/   Total Working Expenses divided into Total Revenues.
3/   Total Operating Costs divided into Total Revenues.
Source: APN and mission estimates
December 1985



- 72 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
HAITI
HAITI TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
APN Revenue Forecast 1984-1988 1/
(in million dollars)
Actual                   -  Forecast
1984 1/       1985       1986       1987      1988
Revenues
Public Wharves                10.29         12.32     11.95      12.31      12.68
Private Wharves               0.92           1.08      1.11       1.15       1.18
Others                         0.63
Total Revenues                11.84         13.40     13.06      13.45      13.86
Expenses
Working Costs                  6.38          7.52      7.75       7.90      8.06
Contr.bution
to SEMANAH                 0.16          0.15       0.15       0.15      0.15
Total Working Expenses         6.54         7.67       7.90       8.05      8.21
Depreciation                   1.94         2.59       2.93       3.32      3.50
Total Operating Costs          8.48         10.26     10.83      11.37      11.71
Operating Surplus              3.36          3.14      2.24       2.08      2.15
Interest Payments             0.41          0.73       1.00       1.15      1.33
Other Finance Costs            0.42         0.42       0.45       0.48      0.50
Net Surplus                    2.53          1.99      0.79       0.45      0.32
RATIOS:
Working Ratio 2/               0.56         0.57       0.58       0.60      0.59
Operating Ratio 3/            0.72          0.77 4/   0.83        0.85      0.84
1/   Years ending 31 September.
2/   Total Working Expenses divided into Total Revenues.
3/   Total Operating Costs divided into Total Revenues.
4/   Increase in Operating Ratios resulting from increasing weight of capital
capital costs (this annex, para 10).
Source: APN and mission estimates
December 1985



- 73 -
Annex 8
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference
For Technical Assistance
The following Outline Terms of References for Technical Assistance
and Engineering Studies and design are included in appendices to this Annex.
Appendix 1.    Technical Assistance for Specialists on
Labor-Based/Equipment-Supported Methods of Road
Construction and Maintenance
Appendix 2.     Studies and Design of the Cabotage Port of Jeremie
Appendix 3.     Technical Assistance for the Tariff Study of
Cabotage Ports
October 1986



- 74 -
ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for Specialists on Labor-Based/Equipment-Supported Methods
of Secondary Road Construction and Maintenance
1.   Road Construction
(a) Advise SCR on the planned development of labor-intensive road
construction brigades.
(b) Develop reporting and control procedures permitting the effective
supervision of the brigades.
(c) Advise on the most appropriate forms of site management and
organization, including the most effective payment and incentive
systems.
(d) Assist in the identification and procurement of well designed,
well manufactured hand tools.
(e)  Develop an effective system of identification, selection and
planning of roads suitable for labor-intensive construction.
(f) Provide advice on the improvement of administrative systems related
to the project (stores, recruitment, procurement, payment).
(g) Develop guidelines for the effective implementation of
labor-intensive road construction in Haiti.
II. Road Maintenance
(a) Provide assistance to the engineer-in-charge of the MIOI maintenance
unit in all aspects of planning and field operations.
(b) Review procedures presently being used by SEPRRN in carrying out
road inventories, and, where warranted, make modifications to
render the inventory more suitable as an input to the planning of
maintenance activities, particularly those suited to labor-based
methods; establish a classification system related to the degree of
maintenance.
(c) Assist LNBTP with the search for good and frequent sources of road
maintenance materials and establish methods for their transport and
use.
(d) Discuss ways of improving the effectiveness of the existing unit
with the engineer-in-charge and with the MOI training specialist.
(e)  Review the quality of existing hand tools available for maintenance
activities and draw up suitable technical specifications and
procurement procedures.



-75-                      ANNEX 8
Appendix I
P-age Z oTi-I
(f) Review methods of maintenance of existing vehicle/plant fleet
available to the MOI unit and make proposals for improvements.
(g)  Review procedures for acceptance by SEPRRN of roads constructed
under the TPTC MOI projects, suggest ways of making these
procedures more rapid, and assist in the implementation of the
suggestions.
(h) Investigate the requirements for periodic and urgent maintenance,
and, if suitable for MOI work, establish a suitable form of
contract in order that federations could be employed to carry out
these works by MOI activities.
(i)  Review the existing payment procedure for the MOI maintenance unit
a;&d devise and implement improved procedu'res with a view to
expediting payment to communities.
(j) Establish a suitable form of contract in order that federations
could be employed for periodic and urgent maintenance and could
implement the procedures.
(k) Investigate current federation wage rates, and, in consultation
with other Ministries, establish and implement control procedures
to ensure that labor is reimbursed adequately and fairly within the
concept of community respons.bilities and actions.
(1)  Review how communities may De best motivated to participate in
carrying out maintenance and make recommendations for changes in
present procedures accordingly.
III.   Training and Staff Development
(a) Develop, with TPTC training school, a labor-intensive road
construction and maintenance training program for engineers and
foremen.
(b) Plan a rolling program of courses in labor-intensive techniques.
(c) Determine needs in relation to equipment for training purposes.
(d) Discuss, with project managers of labor-intensive projects, their
needs in relation to supervisory staff and the context of the
courses being developed.
IV.   Institutional Matters
(a) Advise on Government policy and labor-intensive matters and on
labor wages, recruitment, compensation, and benefits.
(b) Advise on the establishment of standards, specifications, materials
and aggregates.
{c) Assist the Government in coordinating labor-intensive activities
related to other rural development infrastructures.
November 1985



- 76 -
ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for
Engineering Studies and Design for Jeremie
1,       T. :_nve if services consists of three parts:
Pa.   !     sii e investigations;
Part IT:    preliminary engineering designs and economic and
financial feasibility studies; and
Part III:   detailed designs.
Part I
Z.        Site investigations shall include the following:
(a) acquisition of available meteorological data, and sea and
swell conditions;
Cb) sampling and testing of bottom sediments in the littoral zone;
Cc)  study of littoral currents in the vicinity of the new pier
when there is a sea running. This shall be done by either dye
tracing or float tracking;
Cd) aerial photography while a sea is running to determine the
effects of refraction and diffraction on the waves;
(e) bathymetric survey in the vicinity of the new pier to compare
with the survey data from the INGEROUTE-SOHICCO study and with
the surveys performed during and following the recent
construction; and
(f) following completion of Part II, subsurface investigations
for the recommended alternative(s).
Part II
3.        This part shall include the following tasks:
(a) analysis of data on meteorological conditions and sea and
swell data to permit an assessment of the habitability of
various alternatives for remedial improvement;
(b) analysis of data on littoral currents to assess the relative
merits of the various alternatives for freedom from siltation



- 77 -
ANNEX 8
Appendix
Page 2 of 3
and to estimate the annual siltation which would occur under
the various alternatives;
(c) the alternatives included in the analyses shall include:
(i) periodic maintenance dredging of the existing slip
without any protective treatment;
(ii) construction of a groin south of the existing slip;
(iii)  construction of a 'transparent' pile supported finger
pier extending in line with the existing berthing face;
(iv) as (iii), but with pier skewed northeastward;
(v) as (iv), but using solid-fill construction to serve as
breakwater;
(vi) construction of a sheetpile bulkhead wharf along the
north side of the existing pier;
(vii)  preparation of the preliminary construction cost
estimate for each of the preceding alternatives and all
others which are considered viable, assuming 3.5 m
dredged depth and the length of the berthing face which
can be economically justified;
(viii) updating of the cargo and passenger traffic forecast
prepared for the initial Jeremie project;
(ix) estimation of the benefits for the various alternatives
for various numbers of berths;
(x) examination of the possibility of tranching the
construction;
(xi) determination of the economic indexes for the various
alternatives;
(xii)  preparation of a financial feasibility analysis of the
most economic alternative;
(xiii) presentation of the findings in a bound draft report in
the French or English language; and
(xiv)  preparation of a final report after receiving comments.



- 78 -
ANNEX 8
-                                                    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LppendixZ
Page 3 of 3
Part III
4.        This part of the study will be contingent upon the results of the
study completed in Parts I and II. This part shall include the following:
(a) subsurface investigations for the alternative selected upon
completion of Phase II;
(b) analysis of the results of the subsurface investigations and
updating of the estimated cost of construction and economic
analysis if conditions differ markedly from those assumed in
the preliminary design; and
Cc) if the proposed project is still economically viable, then
proceeding with the detailed design.
October 1986



- 79 -
Annex 8
Appendix 3
HAITI
TRANSPURT VII PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Tariff Study at the Cabotage Ports
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        The primary objectives of this study are to:
(a) analyze the traffic that is now bypassing the rehabilitated
cabotage ports by handling cargo and passenger traffic across the
beach or through private facilities;
(b) determine why this traffic is bypassing the new facilities;
(c) analyze the savings which would result from a transfer of
operations to the new facilities; and
Cd) consider what is needed to convince vessel operators to transfer
operations to the new facilities.
II. SCOPE OF THE CONSULTING SERVICES
2.        In performing this assignment, the consultant shall:
(a) review all available data on past and present movements of both
international and domestic cargo and passenger traffic at the
cabotage ports;
(b) determine the changes in the patterns of service offerings and of
passenger preferences;
(c) determine, as far as possible, the future plans of significant
operators at the ports;
(d) forecast international and domestic cargo and passenger traffic at
the cabotage ports and the type of vessels which will be used to
accommodate this traffic;
(e) determine the costs for handling this traffic aL private facilities
or across the beach;
(f) determine what is necessary to attract this traffic to the new
cabotage facilities, including reduction in tariffs; and
(g) predict the period of time that the reduced tariff would have to be
in effect to attract the local traffic to the new facilities, the
maximum tariff which ultimately could be charged and the period of
time over which the increase could be introduced without causing a
loss in patronage.
3.        The consultant shall conduct his studies on site and shall include
all findings, conc'lusions and recommendations in a printed report.
December 1985



- 80 -
ANNEX 9
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Selected List of Documents in the Project File
1. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
MTPTC:
DDT:  Preparation Report - Transport VII Project    July 1985
SEP:  Fer-a-Cheval Bridge Study                       November 1985
SEPRRN:  Proposal for Technical Assistance            February 1985
SEMANAH:  Proposal for Technical Assistance           March 1985
APN:  Short-term Projects - Resum6                    May 1985
[1SI:
Irstitute Haitien de Statistique et
d'Information - Miscellaneous Publication          1982-1984
2. CONSULTANTS
IBI:  National Transport Study                        April 1977
NEDECO:  Report and Establishment of SEMANAR          March 1984
SETEC:  Rehabilitation Study - Mirebalais Road        March 1982
ARTEC:  Guayamouc Bridge Study at Hinche              March 1983
DIWI: Economic Evaluation of the Guayamouc
and Hinche Bridges                         March 1984
BUCKLEY: Jeremie Port Preliminary Report              March 1985
Port Facilities Maintenance Report         March 1985
3. ILO
A. Brookes: ILO Report on Labor-Intensive
Road Maintenance                   March-July 1985
4. ITU
J. Griffiths: Technical Report on Marine
Coastal Radio Communications
and Navigational Aids, SEMANAH    January 1984
December 1985



IIAITT
TI'ANSPnRT 'VTT PnOJECT
DDT nrganization Chart
al @ I                                                        DIRECTION DES TRANSPORTS
Xn ,^ORGANIGRAMME
j i scr UR LIS Ifs P3flPCms
IANI L~~~~~~~~~~~ h.,w  II AIS
FL ~19A! ON If I ime                                                 H _        _lWS*I*
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _                                                                    I Z a .   _   1 i w u;
EI~I~i1E8t.L          a,* _                         -           e       IIIaINg     l



CHART 2
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
SEMANAB OrRsanization Chart
DIRECTOfATE
ADINISTRATIVETN
SE3VICS                                     DNSllANTS
| TAINI           RELJIC                            X T
eATMIONS          SFEYERICSI
Source: SEMANAR
December 1985



CHART 3
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
APN ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
OF
FINANCE AND ECONOMIC
AFFAIRS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS                 BNRH
NATIONAL PORT                PRESIDENT AND
AUTHORITY                 DIRECTOR GENERAL
PURT-AU-PRINCE
DIRECTOR GENERAL      -
Supervision under
IDB Loan Agreement
DEPARTMENT OF      DEPARTMENT OF      DEPARTMENT OF        DEPARTMENT OF
ADMINISTRATIVE         POPT             TECHNICAL               PORT
SERVICES            OPERATIONS         SERVICES              SECURITY
COASTAL PORTS SERVICE            CAP HAiTIEN
[   GENERAL MANAGER               MANAGEMENT UNIr
*Dual assignment           [
COASTAL PORT         COASTAL PORT        COASTAL PORT        COASTAL PORT
UNIT                  UNIT               UNIT                  UNIT
DE LA SALINE    CITE SIMONE DUVALIER     PORT DE PAIX           JEREMIE
MANAGER*              MANAGER             MANAGER             MANAGER
Source: APN
October 198b



CHART 4
HAITI
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990
1. ROADS kND BRIDGES
(a)  Bridge Rehabilitation I/
(b)  Bridge Construction                              *-- ----          --------
(c)  Road Improvement
(d)  Tools, Iriplements & Spares
for Road Maintenance                                                            *
(e)  Training and Tech. Assist.
(f)  Engineering and Supervision                  *                   -
2. MARITIME SERVICES AND FACILITIES
(a)  Engineering and Supervision 2/            *-      ------
(b)  Slipway and Yard                                   *
Cc)  Training Center
(d)  Technical Assist. and Training
3. PORT IMPROVEMENT
Ca) Engineering Studies and Design
for Jeremie                                  *___ _
1/ Retroactive financing - Bridge Rehabilitation.
2/ Retcoactive financing - Engineering, Maritime facilities
October 1986



0 C f AA   T ANA;
USA                                                                                   .
.
-*  ---     ---,-
V., - - .:. :.. -:t ....-                                                       M6L .. NICf               NQ ;-E
~~OO3OORISREANSEA
MILES   CAR/IDEAN                                                   I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e..~~bwdopd.o 50. de
-                        ~~~~~HAITI                                               v
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
.  _J1''hS P5UN: PREv5S POJECI:P
-   . ROAD REHABEUTATED UNDER SIXTH                                  ROADIMPRovIEMENtS
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                        4      PORT PPRoIMLENTS
* - OAStREHABIUTATED UNDER FIFTH                     it oGl     E RGEEN   ATIAON
HIaHwAY PROJEcT
BRIDGES REHABIIUTATED UNDER SIXTH                    -'        NEWl EOGES
-HIGWAY PROJECT
BRIDGES CONSTRUCTED UNDER FIFTH
: :      -    ~  - HIGHWAY PROJECT
- +     BRIDGES REPAIRED                                               R SOUTs NUMBERS
o       B :  z ,eiOX CULVERTS REHABILITATED
'f-.CONCRETE FORD
EXISTI E NG CABOTAGE PORTS
,  o   10      20      30    4d
EXISTING ROADS                                                   KROKETERS
E :-- -~ J -- .-NATIONAL ROADS
-'   - -   - OLD-ASPHALT ROADS
  - --: 01GRAVEL ROADS
---EARTH ROADS
1-DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-    -----      . -:RIVERS
JEREstA E&
'StAftDs                                          ~~~~~~~~~'StN
23aet  H              3  yk                     cArt"U5
"e-$clA~ lao o>e;*0OJ
Let~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PttT%
., -  .ooI...n h                                              ,¢ t)    ;-t                                                     -vC>'. doee t---%  \   r _ _ _  . _ -  Nd
WD  6t %  ~a/'-                         -                                 t  **0Eb*
~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                     I        =                  C     A    A'  ,'^ h S0  8  r
7d'20-  5. ._ ,, .                                    r A  N LI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70  . - :



-                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 19402
> .< ,-~~~~~~~~~~~ A  IV  r'  ! C    O                                              C  E A  /V--  
* -  -          P~~ORT-DE-0X q                            
:--    -->---       T                k~~b                                                                                     -         - 
;-     terar ew^e.,          >9sF             e"                              fat)     i    -   .            |eJ- ~. 
\    d I A"dvletF - - s~~~C    II  cr5r- 5ePh.r  .,,. ,
+i h ' > t ? ;V' >$         5^eL¢<. ,1R-x,   _ 
l  t Drzz 1 ^.       Mf~~~~~~~~~~~~l 
-- - ox QSs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A, h. b0
'', /     eld. IA,,.
frOlVitf  \  *> f>' \ MJz m . ' '>sF' '~~~ 7~4_
~~_ I5I Q ~GrND  \>5sd_  °osooo  
-~~~~~~~ Anwse iGaiets                              S-V                             >       Om                                 0~/
PORTAt- PR NE ,                   , ./eQw    .^              R
t    ,                         y    (   iSp c.a V;~~~~V ll-   ... D o pss
_;          (3                             * > 5,,        ' -     ,       t        Z    ,                       ~~m
,  J           ,_                                                          '-                                   EXt-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
A'   _     V                                                                             VW bd     k.- b-; VW  W-               s )l
ves-de~~~~~~~~~~~~.MWl   F,+eE,_ gwJ_ C-I                                        owG.d F
t~ ~~~~~~~~i                                                                                        r,o -o-o   J1  .  .A$-     Cr.o  .
ne~~                                        72 '30       n                 t wr _ _     ~e* z                               J
JANUARY 1986






