Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4220-HA
REPORT AND nECOM?4ENDATION
TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
I1iTERN'ATIONAL DEVELOPMEN ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMET CREDIT OF
SDR 16.6 MILLION (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A SEVEN1TH TRANSPORT PPOJECT
DECEMBER 31, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offichl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit= Gourde (G)
US$1         =  G  5.0
G 1.0        =  US$0.20
G 1 million = US$200,000
Weights and Measures:
Metric:  British/US Equivalent
I meter Cm)                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)2          =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (ki  )        =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton im ton)         =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter (m )              =  1.3 cubic yards (cu yd)
Fiscal Year
October 1 to September 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAN     -   Autorite Aeronautique Nationale (National Airport Authority)
APN     -   Autorite Portuaire Nationale (National Port Authority)
CCCE     -   Caisse Centrale de CoopEration Economique (France)
CIBA     -   Canadian International Development Agency
CGCED     -   Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
DTY     -   Direction des Transports (Directorate of Transport)
ICE     -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -   International Development Association
IDR     -   Inter-American Development Bank
ILO     -   International Labor Organization
KfW     -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany)
LCB     -   Local competitive bidding
MP      -   Ministare de l'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and
Finance)
HMPTC     -   Ministare des Travaux Publics, des Transports et des
Communications (Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications)
OPEC     -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR     -   Project Completion Report
PCU     -   Project Coordinating Unit
PPAR     -   Project Performance Audit Report
SAT     -   Service Autonome des Transports (Autonomous Transport Service)
SCR     -   Service de Construction Routiare (Road Construction Service)
SEKANAH     -   Service Maritime et de Navigation d'Haiti (Maritime and
Navigational Service of Haiti)
SEP     -   Service d'Etude et Planification (Planning and Studies Services)
SEPRRN     -   Service d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National
(National Permanent Road Maintenance Service)
SRS     -   Section des Routes Secondaires (Secondary Roads Service)
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
HAM
TRANSPORT VII PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJBCr SUMhR
Borrower:      The Republic of Haiti
Credit         SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0 million)
u      mE:
Terms:         Standard. IDA.
Relending      The proceeds of the credit for the cabotage port engineering
Terns:         studies and design of the project (US$0.28 million equivalent)
would be relent by the Government to APN under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association with a repayment term of 7 years,
including 2 years of grace, at 5% interest per annum-.
Project        The objectives of the proposed project are the improvement and
Objectilves:    development of roads and coastal shipping, in support of
agriculture and industry started under previous projects, and
continued strengthening of sectoral institutions.
Project        The proposed project consists of: (a) implementation of Phase II of
Description:   the bridge and culvert rehabilitation program started under the
ongoing Sixth Highway Project; (b) construction of two major
bridges at Fer-a-Cheval and Guayamouc; (c) completion of road
rehabilitation on the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road; (d) technical
assistance to SEPRRN, including improved labor-based road
construction; (e) provision to SEMANAH of technical assistance,
training, and boat inspection facilities; and (f) provision to APN
of funds for engineering studies and detailed engineering for
remedial works at the Port of Jeremie.
Project        The Directorate of Transport (DDT) of the Ministry of Public Works,
EmreCUtJLi     Transport and Communications; the National Port Authority (APN) of
AgenciJLes:    the Ministry of Economy and Finance; and the Maritime and
Navigational Service of Haiti (SEMANAH) would be responsible for
Project Execution through a Project Coordinating Unit.
Beneficiaries: The rural population would be the principal beneficiary from
improved road access and coastal shipping services. The entire
economy would benefit through savings in vehicle operating costs,
improved coastal shipping operations and marketing of agricultural
produce.
Risks:         The principal risk is that the Government will not allocate
sufficient counterpart investment funds to the project or
sufficient complementary recurrent expenditures. The establishment
of a Project Account and assurances by the Government that
sufficient allocations would be provided SEPRRN and SEMANAH in its
annual budgets will reduce this risk.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



project        The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is
Costs:         estimated at US$24.0 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$18.7 million equivalent. The
proposed credit of SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0 million)
equivalent would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the
project and 25% of local costs. The details are presented
below:
Estimated Costs  /
Prodect Components:
IDA
Local     Foreign     Total   Financing
US$ Million             %  Amount
A. Roads and Bridges (DDT)
Civil Works, Roads and Bridges       4.00       11.65      15.65    80  12.52
Equipment, Road Maintenance          0.07        1.36       1.43   100   1.43
Engineering and Supervision          0.13        0.74       0.87   100   0.87
Technical Assistance                 0.07        1.26        1.33   100   1.33
Subtotal                      4.27      15.01       19.28   (84) 16.15
B. Maritime Service Facilities (SEMANAR)
Civil Works, Boat Inspection         0.32        1.16        1.48    80   1.18
Engineering and Supervision          0.04        0.18       0.22   100   0.22
Technical Assistance                 0.19        0.35       0.54   100   0.54
Subtotal                      0.55       1.69        2.24   (86)  1.94
C. Port Improvement (APN)
Engineering Studies and Design       0.03        0.22       0.25   100   0.25
(Jeremie)
Total Baseline Cost                4.85       16.92      21.77   (84) 18.34
Physical Contingencies                0.30       1.11        1.41         1.04
Price Contingencies                  0.18         .64         .82         0.62
TOTAL PROJECT COST:                5.33       18.67      24.00   (83) 20.00
Financing Resources
Proposed IDA Credit                   1.33      18.67      20.00
Government Contribution              4.00         -         4.00
Total Financing                  5.33       18.67      24.00
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA FY            1987 b   1988    1989    1990    1991
Annual          2.4       6.1     6.1      3.3     2.1
Cumulative      2.4       8.5    14.6    17.9    20.0
a/  Based on January 1987 prices.
b/ Includes retroactive financing.



- iii -
Economic Bate  The economic rate of return of the major civil works project
of Beturn:     components is 37%; individual returns for the various
components range between 14% and 43%.
Staff Appraseal teport: Report No. 5943b-RA, dated December 23, 1986.
MAP: IBRD 19402



MMMq NAL       nDET imASSOCIION
REPORT AMn      _     ION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THR EXECUTIVm DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVEJO     CREDIT
OF S5R 16.6 MnIXON (US$20.0 nILLON EQIJIVAZNT) TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EUITI FOR A SEVENTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.      .I submit the following reporr and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance a Seventh
Transport Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        This assessment of the Haitian economy is based largely on three
documents already distributed to the Executive Directors and on the work of
the September/October 1986 appraisal mission for a proposed Economic Recovery
Credit. Haiti: Policy Proposals for Growth (5601-HA) was distributed on
June 18, 1985, and Haiti: Public Expenditure Review (6113-HA) on October 5,
1986. The Joint Government/IDA/DIF Policy Framework Paper for an DIMF
Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement was discussed by the Committee of
the Whole on November 18, 1986. All three were also made available to the
members of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development.
Annex I presents economic data.
3.        Haiti is a small, densely populated, predominantly rural, and open
economy. Its 5.4 million people occupy 28,000 square kilometers, the western
end of the island of Hispaniola, and are among the poorest in the world, with
a per capita income of US$350 (1985, Atlas basis). Their absolute poverty is
unmatched in the Western HRmisphere: the infant mortality rate is about 120
per 1,000 live births and about 65Z of adult Haitians are illiterate. Half
the labor force is unemployed or underemployed.
4.        Three quarters of the population live in the rural areas, and
ultimately depend on agriculture, the output of which has increased little
since the early 1970s. Physical production per capita has fallen steadily as
relentless population pressure has forced peasants to cultivate ever more
marginal hillside land. Strenuous family planning efforts, largely by
non-governmental organizations, have yet to show results. A shortage of
cultivable land, coupled with insecurity of tenure and the demand for wood
and-diarcoal for energy, has generated a vicious circle of deforestation and
soil erosion. Declining rural incomes have led to substantial rural-urban
and international migration.  The total population is .growing at 1.8% per
annum, net of emigratiotn of 0.5%, while the urban population i6sexpanding by
4%.
5.        Past public policies exacerbated the decline of agriculture.
Expansion of coffee, the major cash crop, was discouraged by an export tax.
Producer prices for foodgrains were increased to well above world prices by
import restrictions. This fostered the cultivation of maize on the hillsides
instead of coffee and worsened soil erosion. Public agricultural investment
and credit programs were occasionally targeted more to social relief than to
stimulating either growth in productivity, output and employment or effective



- 2 -
soil conservation. On the plains, where agricultural potential is much
greater than on the hillsides, irrigation systems lack operating and
maintenance finance, and are silting up from the erosion on the hills; much
State and private land is unexploited; and peasants practice highly
risk-averse production patterns.
6.        In recent decades, output and employment have shifted toward urban
activity, as a result of both the scarcity of cultivable land and the
establishment in the 1970s of a labor-intensive, export assembly industry.
Agriculture now accounts for only one third of GDP compared with one half in
the early 1950s. Gross national savings are very low, averaging only about
5% of GDP since FY80. This leaves the economy reliant on concessional aid to
attain investment consistent with sustained growth. The economy has become
much more open; by 1980, the total value of exports and imports of goods and
services had risen to about 50% of GDP.
7.        Despite the expansion of manufacturing for export, the export base
remains narrow, leaving Haiti vulnerable to exogenous shocks. The assembly
industry produces a very limited range of products-electronics, clothing,
and sporting goods-yet accounts for over 50% of all exports; external
factors, such as the 1980-83 world recession and the shakeout in the North
American computer industry, have contributed to the recent slowdown in this
subsector. Coffee, which accounts for about 25% of exports, is particularly
vulnerable to world price fluctuations and to hurricanes. Tourism has
virtually ceased as a result of publicity concerning AIDS and the only
bauxite mine closed in 1982, when deposits were exhausted.
8.        In the second half of the 1970s, economic growth, averaging 4.5%
per annum; allowed for some improvement in real per capita income. A basic
physical infrastructure was established and education and health received
attention, virtually for the first time since the 1930s. Prudent financial
poi6cies were pursued and foreign development assistance was substantial.
The economy was virtually on a dollar standard, with the Gourde remaining at
a fixed parity of five%-to the U.S. dollar, and priees"were relatively
stable.
9.        These conditions helped engender private sector confidence and
promoted the continued rapid expansion of the export assembly industry,
largely based on Haitian entrepreneurial talent. Although it has enjoyed tax
holidays and other investment incentives, this subsector's primary advantage
has been the freely determined structure of wages in Haiti. Until recently
it was the fastest growing assembly industry in the Caribbean Basin; over
50,000 jobs were created by 1980. In contrast, the private industrial sector
producing for the domestic market, which grew quickly in the early 1970s
behind high walls of protection, rapidly saturated this market and has
stagnated for almost ten years.
10.       From FY80-85 the public sector expanded its influence in the
economy through higher rates of taxation, even higher levels of public
expenditure-the control and allocation of which was seriously deficient-
and an increase in the number of public enterprises. Waste and inefficiency
became endemic. Extrabudgetary expenditures rose disturbingly, as did the
level of corruption. New and inefficient public industrial enterprises were
formed, resulting in real resource losses equivalent to almost 4% of GDP each



- 3 -
year. Too much spending went to salaries and non-development purposes, not
enough to non-salary operating costs; too little went for development, and
the returns on public investment were very low or even negative. Transfers
from the Treasury to the investment budget were partly diverted to meet
salary payments in ministries without development functions, reducing the
availability of counterpart funds for aid-financed projects. Per capita
public spending on health declined by 45% from FY80-86.
11.       The overall public sector deficit before grants averaged over 10% a
year (6.5% after grants). Public savings dropped to less than 1% of GDP on
average and recourse to nonconcessional financing, mostly Central Bank
credit, increased to more than 3% of GDP on average. This in turn exerted
heavy pressure on the balance of payments; official net reserves declined at
an annual rate of US$22 million and had fallen to minus US$93 million by the
end of FY85. Gross reserves had declined to less than three weeks' import
cover ge. Payments arrears accumulated and a parallel foreign exchange
market de,eloped, with the Gourde selling at a discount which at times
exceeded 20%.
1Z.       Confidence was eroded and the economy declined by an average of
0.6X per year from FY8i-86.  Real per capita incomes in FY86 were 15% below
those in FY80. There was increasing immiseration in the rural areas and
emigration--the the boat people--increased. Starting in April 1984, there
was intermittent civil unrest. The assembly industry stagnated since 1983.
DonGrs expressed concern over inappropriate public investments, the lack of
overall public investment priorities, and poor policies in agriculture and
industry. Foreign aid declined from 7 to 5% of GDP from FY83-85 and several
donors allocated their aid away from the public sector toward
no-governmental organizations.
13.       The Government's increased revenue demands on the domestic economy
in the 1980s were met through rent-seeking pricing policies by public
industrial enterprises that enjoyed trade monopolies. Together with the
intensification of import restrictions and of private production and
importing monopolies, this inflated prices for basic consumer goods to well
above world levels. The annual increase in the consumer price averaged 8% in
FY80-86, double that of Haiti's main trading partners. An outright ban on
the importation of specific consumption items was first introduced in 1981
and then replaced by an administered system of import licensing after 1982.
Both trade restrictions and pricing policies created price distortions with
neighboring countries, and encouraged contraband in imported consumption
goods.
14.       The economic stagnation led to increasing political discontent.  By
late 1985, civil unrest was widespread and the economy was deteriorating
rapidly; by early 1986, the situation was unsustainable and in February
President Duvalier suddenly departed Haiti, ending the 29-year Duvalier
reign. A transitional Government came to power, pledged to introduce
democracy and promote economic recovery. It has announced a political
calendar leading to elections in November 1987, with the inauguration of a
new elected administration in February 1988.
15.       The Government also announced--and immediately started to
implement--a wide-ranging financial stabilization and economic recovery



- 4 -
program. An attempt is being made to end the present system of privilege and
monopoly and to achieve a growth rate of at least 4.5% a year through
improved exports and agriculture performance. This target is to be promoted
both directly by the removal of impediments to efficient resource allocation,
and indirectly by the impetus to high capital inflows that these policies
should-generate. Central to the Government's strategy is the need to rebuild
the confidence of Haitian workers, farmers and investors, on the one hand,
and foreign investors and aid donors, on the other.
.;..-      ..                    
16.       Both expenditure and taxes have been cut and a balanced budget is
being maintained, except for concessional financing. Education and health
expending have been increased. Taxes on basic consumption items have been
reduced, helping to lower prices. Income taxes have been reformed and
collection is being improved. The public investment program has been pruned
and now concentrates on completing priority ongoing projedts. The public
sector's debt to the domestic banking system is being reduced. Two
uneconomic public industrial enterprises have been closed and two more are
being restructured.
17.       Quantitative restrictions on imports are being progressively
eliminated, specific tariffs replaced by ad valorem ones, and the general
level of protection is being reduced, with a view to both lowering prices and
stimulating competitive efficiency, including at public enterprises. The
export tax on coffee has been halved and will be eliminated, other
agricultural export taxes have been abrogated, and measures will be taken
over time to reduce foodgrains import restrictions. Agricultural credit is
to be reorganized.
18.       The stabilization measures have already begun to work. Both the
public sector deficit and the current account deficit of the balance of
payments have been reduced drastically. The discount on the Gourde on the
parallel foreign exchange market has dropped to about 5-7% and the consumer
price index has fallen by over 4% since February 1986. Economic growth has
not yet resumed, but the signs are promising, particularly with a new textile
agreement with the United States that should permit a major expansion of the
assembly industry and with increased donor commitments of aid.
19.       The present Government's program will not, of course, resolve
Haiti's many severe development problems, notably its undeveloped human
resources, its poor agricultural performance, and its declining natural
environment. This will take much more time than the short life of this
Government, as it well recognizes. The present program should provide a
solid basis on which future Governments can build.



PART II - BRN GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       Since beginning operations in Haiti in 1956, the Bank Group pas
extended one loan and 22 credits totalling US$259.0 million equivalent_/ and
IFC has made one investment (US$1.5 million). As of September,30, 1986, the
total of credits outstanding was US$ 271.4 million 4quivalent,J of which
US$62.1 million equivalent was undisbursed. Annex II summarizes Bank Group
operations in Haiti as of September 30, 1986. The Bank Group has financed
projects in transportation (6), power (4), education (4), water supply (1),
rural development (2), agricultural rehabilitation (1), industrial credit
(1), and urban development (1). A pilot project in forestry is also
underway. IFC's investment is for an integrated poultry project.
21.       Overall, project implementation and disbursement performance are
satisfactory. However, a lack of counterpart funds has in the past delayed
IDA disbursements. The establishment of revolving funds in recent projects
has improved this. IDA is in addition carefully monitoring Haiti's
absorptive capacity for external assistance, with particular attention to
projects' local cost counterpart financing requirements.
22.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in Haiti.  Among
the mnost important are the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), the French Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the German Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW), the Government of Japan, the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
and the technical assistance agencies of the Federal Republic of Germany and
of France. The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
(CGCED), chaired by the World Bank, provides a framework for coordination
among donors. Its Haiti Subgroup met in November 1986 and major donors
announced substantial increases in their intended levels of financial
support.
23.       IDB maintains a diverse program in Haiti, both regionally and
sectorally. Projects are being implemented or planned in the transportation,
agriculture, energy, health, education, industry, urban drainage, and water
supply sectors. The United States' project program is implemented largely in
collaboration with private volunteer groups and concentrates on agriculture
and rural development, the conservation and restoration of natural resources,
rural roads, health care and the strengthening of public and private
development institutions. Balance of payments support is provided through
the grant of foodstuffs to the Government, and, recently, through a cash
grant from the Economic Support Fund. France has financed road construction
and airport resurfacing; it currently sponsors two integrated rural
development projects, a major telecommunications project, educational
planning, research, a multitude of training programs, maritime lighting,
navigational aids for civil aviation and a water supply rehabilitation
project for Port-au-Prince. France also is financing components of IDA's
1/ Difference due to SDR exchange rate.



-6-
Third Power, Fourth Power, andrpilot Forestry Development projects; its water
supply project is a precursor to likely joint financing with IDA of a future
project. Together with Germany, France has provided substantial technical
assistance for the First and the Second IDA Rural Development Projects.
24.      Germany is providing technical and financial assistance for urban,
rural, sanitation, and power sector development. Japan's aid is concentrated
mainly in the health sector. CIDA supports institutional development through
training and technical assistance projects with the Ministries of Education
and Agriculture and the National Institute of Administration. UNDP provides
extensive technical assistance in many sectors.
IDA Strategy
25.       Over the past 18 months IDA has prepared an economic memorandum, an
agricultural sector study and a public expenditure review for Haiti. These
documents identify the major obstacles to economic recovery and the specific
actions needed to achieve and sustain financial stabilization, reduce
resource losses, increase agricultural and industrial production and exports,
save foreign exchange, meet the infrastructure and training needs of
agriculture and industry, increase the efficiency of public institutions and,
for the longer term, improve basic education. These reports were submitted
to the transitional Government which took over in February 1986. Its
financial stabilization and economic recovery program, described in Part I,
is based on reforms which follow closely the reports' principal
recommendations.
26.       Consequently, IDA's program, in close collaboration with other
donors through the CGCED, aims at supporting the Government's program of
economic recovery with both investment project credits and policy-based
operations. In this strategy, the proposed Seventh Transport project is
particularly pertinent since it will improve the infrastructure linking
producers to domestic and foreign markets and thus support agriculture and
industry; will help to reduce the cost of domestic transport, saving foreign
exchange; and will contribute to the improvement of transport institutions
(para. 59).
27.       The Haitian authorities have agreed with the IMF and IDA on a
Policy Framework Paper to underpin an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility
Arrangement. A proposed Economic Recovery Credit, recently appraised by IDA,
would support the implementation of policy reforms, including public
expenditure and investment, public enterprises and credit institutions,
export taxes, and import restrictions and tariffs. This operation would be
complemented by a small Technical Assistance Credit to assist the authorities
to implement and monitor reforms and to prepare further action. An
Industrial Restructuring Credit, soon to be appraised, would provide
financial and technical assistance to industries which need to restructure or
invest to operate under the new set of incentives that the trade regime
reforms will establish.
28.       Further policy-based operations are envisaged as long as an
appropriate policy framework remains in place. Further investment credits



- 7-
under preparation include projects in electric power and water supply. A
population, health and nutrition sector report is currently under
preparation.
29.       IDA's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and outstanding is
estimated at 38% as of September 30, 1986. This is high only because grants
constitute a very large share of the external assistance Haiti has received.
IDA's share of external public debt service was about 5% in FY86.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System - Priorities and the Government's Plan
30.        The Transport System:  Haiti's transport infrastructure consists
of 2,846 km of motorable roads; 40 km of a privately owned railroad; two
international ports, ten cabotage ports and about 40 mooring points; two
international airports and five domestic airfields. Port-au-Prince, the
capital and commercial center, where the major international airport and main
seaport are located, is the focus of the transport system. The main national
highways, as well as a few departmental roads, are well designed and, with
some exceptions, are generally in good condition. The remainder of the road
network has poor geometric standards and lacks adequate drainage structures.
Most of the bridges and culverts are in a very poor state of repair because
of aging and poor maintenance, which has resulted in serious difficulties in
access and high transportation costs. The general conditions of the coastal
shipping (cabotage) ports is satisfactory, with the exception of Jeremie Port
(paras. 48 and 65).
31.       Road transport, the predominant mode, accounts for more than 79%
of total domestic transport. Coastal shipping handles about 18Z, air
transport about 1%, and various beasts of burden and head loading the
remaining 2%. External trade transport is handled mostly by sea (about 98%
by volume), with the balance being by air and by road (the latter to the
neighboring Dominican Republic). International passenger transport is by
air.  Some 403 sailboats and 50 motorboats, with a total carrying capacity
per trip of over 12,000 tons and over 5,000 passengers, are engaged in the
coastal shipping trade.
32.       Air transport accounts for over 90% of the international passenger
traffic and 1% of the freight traffic. Air traffic has been increasing
rapidly since 1975, as a result of the expansion of Haiti's assembly
industries and increased travel from the United States and the Dominican
Republic. Port-au-Prince International Airport was repaved in 1985, in part
financed by Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). CCCE is also
financing a navigational aids system for civil aviation. The five provincial
airports have modest facilities and are used mostly for charter flights. The
Government has plans for building of a new, larger airport at Cap Haitien,
mainly to promote tourism and development in that area. The economic
justification for this investment remains to be proved (para. 3A).



-8-
33.       Sector Priorities and the Government's Plan:  The principal role of
the transport sector for the next decade would be to support the expansion of
agriculture and industry, the main productive areas of the economy, by
providing transport infrastructure for local producers for their access to
domestic and export markets. The sector's objectives are, therefore: (a) the
improvement and rehabilitation of roads, bridges and ports; (b) strengthening
the planning, operation and maintenance of transport facilities; and
(c) continued development of the sector institutions through programs of
staff training and technical assistance.
34.       The previous administration had prepared a preliminary transport
sector investment program for FY87-FY91, costing about US$294 million
equivalent. It included a wide selection of transport infrastructure,
without a set of identified priorities, and was clearly beyond the country's
capacity to implement during that period. Indeed, about 60% of the proposed
investments appeared to be premature. A less ambitious, more economical and
financially feasible list of investments was prepared and discussed with the
Directorate of Transport (DDT) on the occasion of the IDA October 1985 public
expenditure review mission (para. 25). It was subsequently discussed with
the present Government in April 1986. The proposed investments in the
scaled-down list would essentially support the expansion of agriculture, and
would favor rural road improvement and maintenance of existing facilities.
They would cost about US$125 million, which should be within the country's
financial and implementation capacity. Since donor agencies finance the bulk
of the transport sector investments, their interests and those of the
Government would have to be reconciled in order to ensure that the
investments meet with the sector priorities and are within the Government's
financial capability. During negotiations, the Government agreed to restrict
the transport sector investments during FY87-FY91 to the agreed list of
investments and to seek the Association's approval, before modifying such
lI-st of investments. Further, yearly reviews with the Association
--coordinated with USAID, which has a similar requirement-of future
investments and capital and recurrent cost budgetary allocations are
contemplated to ensure that sufficient funds are available for the
investments or that the list is modified. During negotiations, the
Government agreed that, if it decided to undertake any improvements to the
Cap Haitien airport, such improvements would be limited to those that can be
financed exclusively with one-third of air passenger departure tax proceeds.
Institutional Framexork
35.       The institutional framework for transport sector management is
adequate. The Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
(MTPTG), through DDT, is'responsible for ovarall sector management.  KTPTC
also has jurisdiction over the National Airport Authority (AAN) and the
Maritime and Navigational Service of Haiti (SEMANAH). The Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF) has jurisdiction over the National Port Authority
(APN) and, in addition, influences the overall transport investments through
its annual budgetary allocations. The Commisariat for National Promotion and
Public Service defines the national development strategy, and reviews and
coordinates the investment program. Ideally, APN should be under MTPTC, but,



- 9 - I
under MEF, it is legally and financially autonomous and more commercially
oriented, and it maintains good coordination of subsectoral activities with
MTPTC.
36.       DDT has responsibility for the road subsector, through its various
services, and for overall sector planning and policy formulation. SEMANAH is
charged with the regulation and administration of the maritime services,
including efficiency and safety of shipping operations. APN is responsible
for administration, maintenance, development and operation of ports, as is
AAN for airports. DDT needs an organizational review, job reclassification,
and restructuring of duties and responsibilities, particularly of its sector
planning functions (para 38). SEPRRN, the road maintenance service of DDT,
continues to make progress towards strengthening its capacity (para 42). APN
has also shown considerable improvement, while SEMANAH remains inadequate for
the duties assigned to it, because of the lack of Government budget support
and of experienced personnel (para. 51). The proposed project would provide
technical assistance, staff training and management support to continue
strengthening these sector institutions and to consolidate the gains so far
achieved (para. 57).
The Road Subsector
37.       The Road Network:  The national road network of 2,846 km consists
of 565 km of asphalt and concrete pavement; 1,893 km of gravel surfaced
roads; and 388 km of earth roads which are occasionally used by trucks and
four-wheel drive vehicles. The main national highways, comprising the Route
du Nord to Cap Haitien via the departmental capitals of St. Marc and
Gonaives, and the Route du Sud to Les Cayes via Grand Goave, are generally in
good condition. However, the Gonaives to Cap Haitien section of Route du
Nord requires rehabilitation, and spot improvements are needed at other
sections of the national highways. The Sixth Highway Project is partly
addressing the former. The departmental roads connect the major cities along
the national highways to the outlying departmental capitals and to the border
posts to the Dominican Republic, and provide access to the population centers
in the Central Plateau and the Artibonite Valley, the Northwestern Region and
the Grande Anse, in the Southwest. The design standards of the departmental
roads*ax'e poor; drainage structures are inadequate or nonexistent. DDT's
road maintenance service (SEPRRN) is currently maintaining about 85% of the
national and departmental roads. The secondary roads and the tertiary earth
roads forming the balance of the road network are of low design standards and
practically without drainage structures. Most river crossings--about 255
bridges, 3,017 culverts and 105 paved fords-are in poor condition. A
significant part of the roads, bridges and drainage structures, built in the
1940s, have deteriorated so that normal maintenance must be preceded by
rehabilitation. Ongoing and planned programs by USAID and IDB for continued
assistance in secondary and feeder road reconstruction and rehabilitation,
together with the bridge and culvert program nnder the proposed project,
should help to alleviate the problem.



- 10 -
38.       Highway AdminLstration and Planning:  DDT is responsible for road
planning, engineering, construction and maintenance. The expansion of the
road network has created the need to strengthen DDT's management. The low
salary structure and outdated structural organization should be reviewed to
introduce job reclassification and reformulation of duties, responsibilities
and appropriate compensation. The proposed project would finance such a
review (para. 63). DDT's planning and studies service (SEP) lacks
experienced staff in transport planning. The project would provide for 18
man-months of consulting services to strengthen transport planning and for
the overseas training of two DDT staff (para. 63).
39.       Engineering studies and detailed design and construction
supervision are carried out mostly by foreign consultants under DDT's
supervision. Recently, some experienced Haitian consulting firms have
entered this field and have participated successfully in the design and
construction supervision of roads, bridges and drainage structures, including
the IDA-financed bridge and culvert rehabilitation programs.
40.       Road Construction and Maintenance:  The Road Construction Service
(SCR) under DDT is building roads and minor bridges by force account. With
financing from both USAID and IDB, SCR has built some 485 km of secondary
roads since 1978, using labor-based/ equipment-supported methods. The rate
of production is low, the quality of construction is uneven and the costs are
bigh, av.eraging about US$40,000 per km. A technical assistance program to
improve planning, engineering, management, productivity, and other aspects of
labor-intensive methods of road construction and maintenance has recently
been prepared with ILO assistance. The proposed project would provide for
technical assistance to DDT for improving its labor-intensive road
construction and maintenance operations (para. 63).
41.       Most major civil works and road contracts are executed by foreign
firms. Construction costs are relatively high because of the limited scope
and lack of continuity of work for these firms. The Governmeut, has
therefore, been promoting local contractors for some of these works -dith
encouraging results. Small scale construction capability is well developed.
One major local contractor, in joint venture with a US firm, is
reconstructing a major paved road and rehabilitating several bridges and
culverts. Other smaller local contractors work as subcontractors.
42.       With the assistance of USAID and IDA, SEPRRN, the road maintenance
agency, has substantially improved its road and bridge maintenance
capability. It systematically expanded the network under maintenance from
about 2,000 km in 1981 to about 2,600 km in 1985. Recently, SEPRRN is
emphasizing labor-intensive maintenance through a Community Action
Maintenance Program (CAMP), under which road sections are maintained under
contract by neighboring communities, supervised by SEPRRN foremen. SEPPRN
provides the communities with hand tools, materials and US$1,000 equivalent
per km per year. The program, which has so far achieved good results, would
be expanded under the proposed project. This assistance should enable SEPRRN
to fulfill its obligations on the maintainable network, provided it receives
adequate operating funds from the Government (para. 63). SEPRRN does not yet
have sufficient financial monitoring and disaggregation of costs to permit



- 11 -
the identificdtion of possible inefficiencies in operation. The proposed
project would support the establishment of a cost accounting and control
systems (para 63). SPRRN also intends to use local contractors for road
maintenance and will take this into consideration in its formulating of the
FY87 maintenance program.
43.        Expenditures and Revenues:   DDT's annual expenditures are
financed from the Government's general operating budget. The operating
expenditures for SEPRRN, excluding salaries and wages, were financed by USAID
until FY84, when they reverted to the Haitian Government. Annual transport
expenditaures from FY84 to FY86 averaged US$37.5 million, of which US$18.5
million was for capital investments and US$19.0 million for recurrent costs.
Government contributions averaged US$28.0 million per year. Projected total
expenditures for FY87-FY9I, based upon the investment list referred to in
paragraph 34, and including recurrent costs, would average US$44.1 million
per year, with the Government contribution of US$25.7 million per year, of
which US$20.2 million per year would be for recurrent costs. The Government
should be capable of financing these amounts. In the past, the Government
has not allocated sufficient funds to the road subsector in a timely fashion,
especially to road maintenance. During negotiations, the Government agreed
to allocate in its annual budget and disburse to SEPRRN, on a timely basis,
sufficient funds in support of an agreed road maintenance program (para 63).
44.       Revenues from road-user charges increased from US$10.8 million in
1978 to US$25.6 million in 1984, averaging some US$16.1 million per year,
which should be sufficient to cover road maintenance needs (about US$8.0
million per year) and about 50% of the remaining local expenditures on
roads. An issue under the Sixth Highway Project was the need to equalize
taxes on gasoline and diesel fuels. The Government has, since 1982, adjusted
motor fuel taxes progressively upward to eliminate the difference with both
fuels retailing at US$2.25 per gallon. However, in January 1986,
following civil disturbances, the retail price of diesel fuel was reduced by
about 11% to US$2.00 per gallon. The current prices for both fuels continue
to be well above the international prices and include sufficient margin for
tax revenues in support of costs of the road network.
45.        Road Traffic and Axle-Load Control:  Available traffic data show
that about 75% of all traffic originates from Port-au-Prince and that the
paved roads carry some 80% of the traffic, with volumes up to 1,000 vehicles
per day on some sections. Excluding Government and army vehicles, some
46,000 motor vehicles are in circulation, half of which are diesel-powered.
46.       Haiti's transport industry is subject to regulations governing
vehicle licensing, registration and inspection, tariffs for passenger
service, vehicle dimensions and axle-load limits. Current regulations
liLiting single axle loads to 18 tons and a maximum weight to 40 tons are
adequate. Under the Sixth Highway Project, the Government purchased a new
stationary weigh bridge and 20 mobile scales and vehicles, and repaired an
existing weigh bridge on Route du Sud. The Government's road traffic and
axle-load control program is satisfactory, except that delays occurred in
installation of the new weigh bridge on the Northern road, (because of
shortage of funds). The Government agreed, at negotiations, to take and
main ain all the necessary steps to enforce its vehicle dimension and



- 12 -
axle load limits and to exchange views on progress and future actions with
IDA by June 30 of each year, during the project implementation period. As a
part of this effort, the Government agreed, during negotiations, to not later
than March 31, 1987: (a) provide DDT with an amount of US$240,000; and (b)
appoint a fulltime qualified chief for DOT's vehicle weight control service.
The Port and Maritime Subsectors
47.       Port Infrastructure:  Port-au-Prince, the principal international
port, has modern facilities and is operated and managed adequately. Cap
Haitien, the international port in the north, was built under Credit 1121-HA,
and is well equipped. In 1984, the two international ports handled about
982,000 tons; 767 vessels, comprising 41 cruise ships, 410 specialized
container or Roll-on/Roll-off (Ro-Ro) vessels and 316 breakbulk general cargo
or bulk vessels called at the two ports. The international ports have
sufficient capacity for the next 10 to 15 years.
48.       Because most population centers are situated along the coast,
cabotage ports and mooring points are important, sea transport being the only
convenient mode of transport available. Following recommendations of a
National Transport Study (NTS-1977), 10 cabotage ports have been constructed
and rehabilitated under IDA Credits 807-HA and 1121-HA. The cabotage ports,
some of which were completed recently, handled about 65,000 tons of cargo and
some 134,000 passengers in 1984. The dredged slip along the wharf of the
caborage port of Jeremie has silted in, reducing the utilization of the
port. The proposed project would finance detailed investigation and
engineering of the improvement works (para 65).
49.       Port Management:  APN is responsible for the management and
operation of the two international ports and the ten rehabilitated cabotage
ports. APN's port management and operations have improved steadily with
technical assistance under IDA projects. APN has generated operating
surpluses for the last decade, except for FY 81, although there have been
occasional cash-flow problems due to either slow collection by APN or
arbitrary taxation of its income by the Government. Growing expenses and
declining traffic eroded APN's profits until FY 84, when container tariffs
were raised. Operating ratios have been satisfactory for the last four years
and APN has, consequently, provided much of the IDA project (Credit 1121-HA)
counterpart financing without Government assistance. APN continues to
subsidize the other ports with profits from Port-au-Prince.
50.        Port Tariffs and Charges:  Coastal port tariffs were initially
established to recover some 80% of demonstrable financial benefits to users.
Many cabotage vessels are, however, avoiding the new facilities and
continuing to use either the beach or the nearest free facility. The
proposed project would provide for a study of cabotage port tariffs, as part
of the technical assistance to SEMANAH (para. 64), based upon agreed terms of
reference. The study would allow for trial periods for experimentation with
various approaches to insure shippers' use of the ports with maximum return
to APN. Current charges and dues at Port-au-Prince fall within the middle
range for the Caribbean ports. However, following the shippers' complaints
and MEF's fears for the port's relative attraction for transshipment, APN has
completed a study of international port tariffs, which is being reviewed by
the Association. At negotiations, the Government agreed (a) to put into



- 13 -
effect the new international port tariffs by October 1, 1987; and (b) submit
the study results of the tariffs for cabotage ports for IDA's review by
July 1, 1987 and implement them by October 1, 1987, in both cases taking into
account IDA's comments.
51.       Maritime Services:  Established in 1982, SEMANAR's principal
functions include the registration, inspection and licensing of all coastal
vessels and the professional development of their crews. SEMANAR did not
start effectively until January 1984 and has neither been adequately staffed
nor received necessary funds from the Government. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to an adequate budgetary allocation for SEMANAH's
operational requirements.   The proposed project would provide for SEMANAH
technical assistance and funds for training and boat inspection facilities
(para 64).
Main Sector Issues:
52.       In previous years, the Government has worked closely with external
donors to successfully resolve the following sector issues: (a) adjusting
the retail price of diesel and gasoline fuels (para 44); (b) giving coastal
shipping its due economic role (para. 48);(c) reorganizing and strengthening
the transport sector institutions; (d) revising axle-load limit legislation
and initiating enforcement (para. 46); and (e) introducing more appropriate
road-user taxation,including a progressive congestion tax in Port-au-Prince
(para. 44). Outstanding issues include: (a) the level and structure of both
international and cabotage port charges and dues; and (b) the allocation of
adequate local funds for the operation and maintenance of transport
facilities. The proposed project would address these two issues (paras. 50
and 63).
Experieace with Bank Group Lending in the Sector
53.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made one loan and extended five
development credits for Haiti transportation in a total amount of US$73
million equivalent. Four projects were for highways, one was for a combined
highways and ports, and one was exclusively for ports. The first Bank
Loan (141-HA for US$2.6 million, in 1956) was for a Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project which covered about 1,000 km of roads; it was
completed under an Interim Highway Credit (32-HA for US$350,000 in 1962).
Political and managerial problems delayed the implementation of the project.
The second and third projects (Credits 478-HA and 556-HA, 1974 and 1975, for
US$10 million and US$20 million, respectively) were to reconstruct the Route
du Nord (250 km), including emergency reconstruction of the Estere, Sonde and
Limb bridges. These projects provided all-weather access between
Port-au-Prince and the principal northern city and port, Cap Haitien, and
linked the Artibonite Valley to the main food-consuming centers. They also
financed and initiated implementation of axle-load controls. The Project
Completion Report (PCR), dated May 1980, reestimated higher returns (25% and
41% compared to 20% and 35%, respectively, at appraisal) for the projects,
mostly because of higher-than-anticipated growth rates for traffic and
savings in vehicle operating costs which more than offset construction cost
overruns. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) drew attention to a



- 14 -
divergence of opinion between the Government and IDA on design standards for
road construction--the Government advocating a higher pavement standard and
IDA, in view of limited funds, preferring a phased construction. History has
proved neither side completely correct. The pavement deteriorated slightly
faster than IDA predicted, but not so rapidly as to have, then, warranted the
additional cost of a higher class pavement.
54.       The Transport Project (Credit 807-HA, US$15 million, 1978) provided
for the upgrading and paving of 54 km of roads in the Northern Plains, a
feeder road to the Jeremie Port, the construction of the Hypolite and Trois
Rivieres Bridges and new terminals for shallow draft vessels at
Poirt-au-Prince, Port-de-Paix and Jeremie.  The PCR concluded that the project
had fully achieved its objectives and had been implemented within costs, but
had suffered some delays. The economic reevaluation confirmed the viability
of the road component. The port component was also judged
satisfactory, although, subsequently, early in 1982, it was realized that the
dredged slip at Jeremie was subject to rapid siltation and that remedial
works would be required (para. 65).
55.       The Port Project (Credit 1121-HA), US$11 million, 1981),
cofinanced by the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), provided for
construction of a berth for cruise ships, a wharf for break-bulk and Ro-Ro
general cargo vessels, and a wharf for cabotage vessels at Cap Haitien. In
addition, cabotage ports were rehabilitated or constructed at Gonaives,
Anse-Balets, Baraderes, Corail, Anse d'Hainault, Port-a-Piment and Les Cayes,
including the cost overruns of the port of Jeremie. The PCR concluded that,
in the face of subsequent economic developments in Haiti, the investments in
the Cap Haitien Port were premature and that the viability of the project's
cabotage ports would depend upon a proper pricing policy for their use and
institutional improvements in SEMANAH. The latter would be addressed under
the proposed project (paras. 50 and 64).
56.       The ongoing Sixth Highway Project (Credit 1220-HA, US$14 million,
1982) was made for the rehabilitation of some 100 km of the Route du Nord
from Gonaives to Cap Haitien, the rehabilitation of some 57 bridges and
culverts, the improvement of road maintenance, and the financing of
engineering studies of additional bridges and culverts. Due to cost
overruns, caused by delays related to the political unrests in late 1985 and
early 1986, and increase in counterpart fund requirements, the project scope
had to be reduced to 65 km equivalent on the Route du Nord, and to 26 bridges
and culverts. After an increase in IDA's financing share, the project is
currently proceeding satisfactorily, and is expected to be completed by
December 1987, some 30 months beyond the appraisal estimate. The main
implementation problems have been a lack of timely availability of local
funds for civil works and the adverse effect of the unrests in 1985 and 1986.
The Aank Group Leading Strategy in the Sector
57.       The Bank Group's support of Haiti's transport sector development
has to be coordinated with relevant objectives and aid policies of- other
major aid givers active in the country, including in particular IDB, USAID,
KfW and CCCE. Taking into consideration the transport sector's priority
needs, as described before (paras. 33 and 34), and other aid agencies' plans,



- 15 -
IDA objectives and development strategy in this sector include:
(a) assistance for further improving the sectoral institutions, with
particu3ar focus on DDT, SEMANAR and APN; (b) continued road and bridge
rehabilitation to ensure access to major agricultural and industrial
development areas; (c) continued focus on improvement of road maintenance,
with increased use of suitable labor-intensive methods; and (d) as a longer
term objective, rehabilitation and improvement of selected links in the
primary road network. The proposed project would address the objectives set
under (a), (b) and (c) and would lay the basis for (d). IDB has plans for
financing of the construction and rehabilitation of the Pont Sonde-Mirebalais
Road and secondary roads in the Artibonite Valley. The USAID's involvement
is likely to be limited to the construction and maintenance of secondary
roads by labor-intensive methods and to selective technical assistance to
SEPRRN; KfW has been concentrating upon the improvement of some port
facilities, while CCCE is considering the construction of three bridges in
the Grande Anse and is furnishing navigational aids for the international
airports at Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien.
PART rv - THE PROJECT
Background
58.       The project was identified in December 1984 and prepared by the
beneficiar1 agencies with the aid of consultants. After the appraisal in
July 1985, the scope of the project has been reduced to take into account the
Government's capabilities to provide counterpart funds and emerging needs for
alternative IrA financing in Haiti. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D. C. during December 1-4, 1986. The Haiti delegation was headed by Colonel
Jacques Jrachim, Minister of Public Works, Transport and Communications, and
included representatives from DDT, APN and the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, and the designated chairman of the Project Coordinating Unit. The
main features of the proposed credit and project are outlined in the Credit
and Project Summary and Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale
59.       In the past, the Bank Group helped the Government to develop and
improve highway and port infrastructure, and to build the sectoral
institutions, introducing appropriate sector policies in the areas of
transport pricing, user charges and vehicle axle-load control (para. 52).
The results have been positive. There is continuing need for further
development in the sector, particularly in support of the expansion of
agriculture and industry, by providing transport infrastructure to link
producers to domestic and export markets. Haiti's short and medium term
needs in transport are: the completion of infrastructure facilities prepa'red
or started under previous projects, filling the gaps and rectifying the
deficiencies in planning and executia4 as well as further strengthening and
consolidating the improvements achieved in the development of the sectoral
institutions.
60.       The proposed project would help the Government to attain the
foregoing objectives by improving road sections and rehabilitating bridges
and drainage structures essential for the transport of agricultural produce;



- 16 -
expanding the road maintenance program by labor-intensive methods; improving
the maritime regulatory services and facilities, providing tools, implements,
equipment and spare parts for the operation and maintenance of road
infrastructure; and further strengthening institutions through appropriate
training and technical assistance. The proposed project would also aim at
setting of realistic parameters for the Government's FY87-91 transport sector
investment program (para. 34).
Project Description
61.       The proposed project would consist of: (a) rehabilitation of
bridges and drainage structures in continuation of the ongoing program under
the Sixth Highway Project, Credit 1220-HA; (b) construction of two major
bridges at Fer-a-Cheval and Guayamouc; (c) completion of road rehabilitation
work on the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road started under the Sixth Highway Project
(Credit 1220-HA); (d) continued strengthening of highway administration and
road and bridge maintenance through training and technical assistance,
including improved labor-intensive methods; and provision of tools, equipment
and spare parts for road maintenance; Ce) an inspection facility for
cabotage vessels and training and technical assistance for SEMANAH; and
(f) funds for technical studies, and design and detailed engineering for the
remedial works at the cabotage port of Jeremie. The details are presented
below.
62.       Roads and Bridges:  To provide dependable access to rural
population centers and agricultural areas, and in continuation of the Sixth
Highway Project (Credit 1220-HA), the proposed project would provide for the
construction of 38 bridges and drainage structures located on departmental
and secondary roads, currently being improved. In addition, the Fer-a-Cheval
Bridge, located on the Mirebal3is Road, collapsed in May 1983 and is beyond
repair. The suspension bridge at Guayamouc is closed to traffic because of
severe corrosion of the structural members. These bridges were originally
included in the rehabilitation program of the Sixth Highway Project.
However, following studies of alternatives, the Government decided in favor
of new construction because of the relatively high cost of repairs and
rehabilitation. The Route du Nord, of which the Gonaives-Cap Haitien is the
northern section, is Haiti's most important transport artery. As a result of
the reduction of project size by amendment of Credit 1220-HA (para. 56), an
equivalent of 35 km of the road was deleted. The proposed project would
provide for the strengthening and rehabilitation of about 20 km and spot
repairs and surface dressing on another 15 km of the deleted sections.
63.       Strengthening of Highway Administration and Road Maintenance:
Technical assistance, about 120 man-months of consultants' services, would
be provided to SEPRRN for institutional strengthening and staff training
under its expanding maintenance program. Tools and implements would be
provided for labor-intensive road maintenance through the Community Action
Maintenance Program (para. 42).  A technical assistance program for DDT,
about 12 man-months of expatriate and local consultant services, would
improve labor-intensive road construction and maintenance techniques
including construction planning and organization, cost accounting,
procurement procedures, and selection and utilization of appropriate support



- 17 -
equipment. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the scope of a
technical assistance program to improve labor-based methods, with two pilot
road construction sites in two regions of the country. The Government also
agreed to submit for the Association's approval by June 30, 1987, and
thereafter by June 30 every year during the project implementation period,
the details of such a program (including the technical assistance required
and the sites selected) and to carry out such program, taking into
consideration the Association's comments. The project would also assist in
the restructuring of DDT's organization and job reclassification, and would
strengthen the Planning and Studies Service (SEP) through training and
technical assistance of about 18 man-months in traasport planning. SEPRRN's
maintenance program for FY87-91 is aimed at a total coverage of the paved and
gravel roads. At negotiations, the Government agreed to allocate to SEPRRN a
minimum equivalent of US$8.8 million in FY88, US$9.7 million in FY89, US$10.6
million in FY90, US$11.8 million in FY91 and US$12.9 million in FY92, and to
have the consultants start work on DDT's organization by June 30, 1987.
64.       MaLritime Services:  SEMANAH's responsibilities include periodic
inspection, certification and registration of boats and vessels, training of
officers and crew of the vessels, providing adequate navigational aids and
radio communications facilities to transmit meteorological and search and
rescue information for both cabotage and international traffic, and
developing a program for the modernization of the national fleet (para. 51).
The project would provide SEMANAR with an inspection slipway and yard for
small boats; a maritime training center for captains and seamen; and an
institutional development program for staff training and technical
assistance, about 36 man-months of expatriate services, to strengthen
SEMANAR's administration, management and operation of its facilities and
performance of its assigned services. To enable SEMANAH to meet its assigncd
responsibilities, at negotiations, the Government agreed to allocate a
minimum equivalent of US$0.8 million in FY88, US$0.9 million in FY89, US$1.0
million in FY90 and US$1.2 million in FY91, and to commence the program for
strengthening SEMANAH's technical administration by June 30, 1987.
65.       Port Improvement:  APN is responsible for the planning,
construction, management and operation of Haiti's two international ports and
the cabotage ports, including cargo handling and the operation and
maintenance of all port facilities (para. 49). The project would provide APN
with funds for the technical study, design and detailed engineering for the
remedial works at the cabotage port of Jeremie (para 54).
Project Costs and Financing
66.       The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at
US$24.0 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$18.7
million equivalent (78%) and local costs of US$5.3 million equivalent, the
details of which are shown in the Credit and Project Summary section at the
front of this report. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0
million equivalent) would finance the full foreign exchange costs and 25% of
local costs. The Government would finance the balance of US$4.0 million
equivalent. To permit the early start of the bridge rehabilitation program,
the Government has, with IDA's agreement, awarded contracts to the lowest



- 18 -
evaluated bidders, already selected following ICB procedures under Credit
1220-HA. US$1.0 million equivalent in retroactive financing was agreed with
Government, at negotiations, for bridge rehabilitation works scheduled to
start in late 1986. Further, retroactive financing of US$0.2 million for
engineering services for the detailed design and preparation of bid documents
for the slipway and yard and the maritime training center was also agreed.
67.       The project cost estimates are based upon January 1987 prices. The
costs of bridge rehabilitation works are based upon the contract amounts
agreed with the lowest responsive bidders. The cost estimates for road
rehabilitation works are based upon contract rates adjusted for changed
conditions by the supervising consultants. The cost estimates for the new
bridges, the boat inspection slipway and the maritime training center are
based upon bills of quantities and updated unit prices currently in use for
similar works in Haiti. Those for tools, implements, training equipment, and
spare parts are based upon recently concluded contracts by DDT, SEMANAH and
APN for similar items or upon recen.t quotations received from local and
international suppliers. For consultants services, the estimates are based
upon the type and duration of services required. Physical contingencies
range from 5% for civil works for which detailed engineering has been
completed, to 15% for items for which only preliminary estimates are
available. Price increases for both local and foreign cost components have
been assumed to be at 3% for FY87 and 1% for FY88-90 in accordance with the
current Bank Group guidelines concerning expected price increases.
Project Implementation
68.       Responsibility for project execution would be divided among:
(a) DDT, for roads and bridges; (b) SEMANAH for the maritime regulatory
service facilities; and (c) APN for the Jeremie port engineering design and
studies. As a condition to disbursement of the proceeds of the credit for
the Jeremie port studies, the Government and APN would enter into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to IDA, under which an amount not to
exceed US$0.28 million equivalent would be relent by the Government to APN
with a repayment term of 7 years, including 2 years of grace, at 5% interest
per annum. A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be established with
powers and responsibilities to ensure proper coordination and monitoring of
implementation, as well as for maintenance of project progress reports. The
PCU, composed of the Directors of DDT, APN and SEMANAR, and a senior
representative of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, would work under the
Director of DDT. The Government would also designate a fulltime Project
Implementation Officer (an experienced engineer) who would be responsible for
the day-to-day supervision of project implementation under guidance of the
PCU Chairman. The establishment of the PCU and the appointment of the
Project Implementation Officer would be conditions of effectiveness. DDT,
SEMANAH and APN would be assisted by consultants, as necessary, in
implementing the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       Following Bank Group Guidelines, tenders for the bridge
rehabilitation program, totaling about US$8.7 million, including
contingencies, were received in September 1984 and evaluated. The Government



- 19 -
and the lowest evaluated bidders have agreed upon price adjustments. Road
rehabilitation works, civil works for the two bridges, and SEMANAH's training
center and boat inspection facility, totaling US$9.5 million equivalent,
including contingencies,- would be procured after prequalification of firms,
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for ICB procurement. Civil works
contracts with estimated costs below US$100,000, and up to an aggregated
amount of US$0.7 million equivalent will be advertised locally and awarded in
accordance with Government procedures. The Government's competitive bidding
procedures are satisfactory, and foreign contractors are allowed to
participate.
70.       Procurement of road maintenance equipment and tools, hand
implements and spare parts, totalling about US$1.4 million in cost, including
contingencies, would be through ICB in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines. Eligible domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the import duty, whichever is
lower. LCB would be considered for contracts under US$50,000 equivalent, and
up to an aggregated amount of US$200,000 equivalent. Bidding procedures,
tender documents, guarantee and contract forms and proposed contract awards
for contracts in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would all be subject to
IDA's prior approval. Consultants would be retained following the Bank
Group's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, subject to IDA's prior review
and approval. Detailed terms of reference for the major services would be
subject to IDA's approval. The proposed procurement procedures are
summarized below:
Procurement Procedures
Project Element                    ICB       LCB       Other     Total a
-       -   US$ Million
Civil Works                       18.2       0.7         -        18.9
(14.3) b/  (0.6)       -        (14.9)
Equipment                          1.4       0.2         -         1.6
(1.4)     (0.2)       -         (1.6)
Technical Assistance
and Studies                                           3.5        3.5
-         -       (3.5)       (3.5)
TOTAL                   19.6       0.9       3.5        24.0
(15.7)     (0.8)     (3.5)      (20.0)
a/   Values include physical and price contingencies.
bI   Figures in parentheses correspond to estimated credit allocations.
71.       Disbursements would be on the basis of: (a) 80% of total
expenditures for all civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported goods, 100% of ex-factory prices for local goods; and 85% of local



- 20 -
expenditures off-the-shelf; and Cc) 1002 of total expenditures for technical
assistance, training, consulting services and audits. Withdrawal
applications for contract amounts above US$20,000 equivalent would be fully
documented. Disbursements for contracts for US$20,000 equivalent or less
would be made against statements of expenditure, the documentation of which
would be retained for review by IDA staff and audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Expenditures incurred prior to signing of the Development
Credit Agreement, and after October 1, 1986, for the rehabilitation of
bridges and engineering studies not exceeding SDR 990,000, would be financed
retroactively (para. 66). The estimated schedule of disbursements (over four
years) is shown in the Credit and Project summary section of this report.
The disbursement period is shorter than the standard Regional profile spread
over eight years for Bank-Group-financed transport projects. However, it is
considered realistic, given that (a) the contracts for the major project
items have already been awarded, (b) the Government's contribuition to the
project is relatively small and satisfactory arrangements are being made
under the project, through a Project Account, to ensure timely availability
of counterpart funds.
Project Accounts, Auditing and Monitoring
72.       Experience has shown that budgetary constraints limit the
Government's capacity to meet project expenditures, and the project executing
agencies would have to submit reimbursement applications for small amounts at
frequent intervals to maintain its cash flow. To alleviate these problems,
IDA would deposit US$1.6 million equivalent into a Special Account,
established by the Government in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, which
would represent IDA's share of financing of four months of estimated eligible
project expenditures. IDA would start recovery of the initial deposit when
the total undisbursed credit amount and any commitments have reached a total
of US$3.0 million equivalent. To ensure timely availability of adequate
counterpart funds, the Government agreed during negotiations to establish a
separate Project Account and make an initial deposit of US$0.4 million
equivalent in local currency in the Banque de la Republique d'Haiti and to
replenish such an account as necessary, so that the amounts available do not
fall below the counterpart funds required to meet two months of estimated
project expenditures. The project records and accounts, including the
Special Account, the Project Account and the accounts of the executing
agencies would be subject to specific audit, each fiscal year, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles, consistently applied by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of all financial statements
would be transmitted to IDA not later than four months after the close of
each fiscal year. Establishment of the Special Account, the Project Account
and the Government's initial deposit of US$0.4 million equivalent in the
Project Account would be conditions tor effectiveness.
73.       Progress of the project toward achieving its objectives would  be
monitored against the estimated credit disbursement schedule. The
institutional development of DDT and SEMANAH in performing their respectively
assigned functions would be closely monitored.



- 21 -
Econooic Evaluation and Benefits
74.       The rehabilitation and reconstruction of drainage structures would
provide year-round motor-vehicle access to agriculturally productive areas
and population centers, a reduction in transport costs, and the extension of
the service life of the rehabilitated structures. The road rehabilitation
and maintenance components would yield direct benefits in the reduction of
vehicle operating costs and traffic accidents. While the whole economy would
benefit, the rural population would be the principal beneflciarles of the
proposed project, which would be centered upon the rehabilitation of drainage
structures, better maintenance of secondary and feeder roads, improvement of
principal access routes, and the overall improvement of coastal shipping
services--the principal transport mode for coastal communities.
75.       The economic rate of return (ERR) estimates for the project's major
civil works components were based upon consultants' studies. The bridge and
culvert rehabilitation program would have an overall ERR of 43%; the
reconstruction of the Fer-a-Cheval and Guayamouc bridges, 39Z and 23%,
respectively; the completion of the Gonaives-Cap Haitien road, 28%; the road
maintenance support, 37%; and the SEMANAH slipway and yard, 21%. The
institution-building components would yield high, but unquantifiable,
returns. The ERR for the project's main civil works project components is
estimated at 37%. Sensitivity tests of the individual components show that,
in all cases, the resulting ERRs would exceed 12%. The project is,
therefore, economically justifiable.
Risks
76.       The principal risk is that the Government will not allocate
sufflcient counterpart investment funds to the project or sufficient
complementary recurrent expenditures. To sustain the accrual of benefits
from the rehabllitation, reconstruction and improvement of roads and drainage
structures, there ls need for continued maintenance, during and after project
implementation. The establishment of the Project Account (para. 72) and
assurances by the Government that sufficient allocatlons would be provided to
SEPRRN and SEMANAR in its budgets (paras. 63 and 64) would reduce this risk
to an acceptable level.
PART V. 
77.       1 am satisfied tiat the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washiugton, D. C., December 31, 1986



- 22 -
HAITlE ECONONIC INDICATORS a/                             ANNEX  I
CNP per Capitat  USS350  (1995. Atlas figure)                     Page 1 of 2
CROS  OCES*fTIC PRODUCT IN FY86                                                                 ANNUAL GROWTH RATES
(I in constant priews)
US$ Mlillon              S                       FY76-81  FY81-86
CDP at Market Prices                               2147.0              100.0                          3.4     -0.6
Crusa DomestL  Investment                          259.7               12.1                         6.3      -3.7
Cross National Savings                              107.4                5.0                        -11.7     11.4
Currant Account Balance                            -102.2               -4.8                            -        -
Exports of Coods and NFS hi                         297.1               13.8                          3.2      0.1
Imports of Goods and NFS bi                        -435.4              -20.3                         6.8      -4.4
VALUE ADDED IN FY86
USS MliLon               2                       FY76-81  PY81-86
(constant prices)                                                                                   -        -
Agriculture cl                                      689.2               32.1                         -0.0     -1.6
Industry                                            493.8               23.0                         5.3       0.2
Services                                            878.1               40.9                          3.3      0.1
IndIrect Taxes                                       85.9                4.0                            -        -
TotaL                                            2147.0              100.0                         3.4      -0.6
PUBLIC FINANCE
Public Sector di                               Central Covernment
C Million            I of CDP                   C Mllion           Kt of GDP
FY86      FY76     FY81      FY86               FY86     FY76      FY81     FY86
Current Revenues                         1989.1      14.3      15.7     18.5             1129.0      9.9       8.9     10.5
Current ExpendLtures                     1885.0      12.4      16.7     17.6             1237.0      8.5      11.2     11.5
Current Surplus                           104.1       1.9      -0.9      1.0             -108.0      1.4      -2.2     -1.0
Capital ExpendItures                      661.1       9.5      11.9      6.2              529.6      7.6      10.1      4.9
External AssLstance el                    594.2       7.0       9.5      5.5              528.5      6.2       8.5      4.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
FY81     FY82      FY83     FY84     FY85      FY86
(MCllion C Outstanding at End of Period)
Money and Quasl-Money                              1803.3   1964.2   2074.3   2320.4   2510.1   2710.6
Net Bank Credlt to Public Sector                    852.7   1093.6   1549.6   1913.9   2130.1   2092.9
Net Bank Credit to Private Sector                  1103.9   1088.3   1013.2   1052.9   1147.4   1166.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and QuasL-Money as Z of CDP                    24.4      26.5     25.5     25.5      26.0     25.2
Consumer Price Index (Base FY86-100)                 67.0      72.5     78.6     84.9      92.1    100.0
Annual Percentage Changes Ln CPI                        ..      8.2      8.4      8.0       8.4      8.5
Net Bank Credit to PubiLc Sector                     11.5      14.7     19.0     21.1      22.0     19.5
Net Bank Cred t to Private Sector                    14.9      14.7     12.4      11.6     11.9     10.9
WACES
Standard Minimum Wage Rate                           13.2      13.2     13.2     13.2      15.0     15.0
(Courdes per day)
ReaL Wage Index                                     100.0      92.4     85.2      79.1     82.7     76.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars are at the exchange rate of C 5 - US$1 that has prevailed since 1919.
&I Data refer to FY ending September 30: FY86 figures are estlmated.
bi Assembly industry treated on a net basis.
cI Includes mLnLng ln FY81 and 82.
dt  Includes gross:fJSures for pubilc enterprises.
el Net disbursements of loans and grants.



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                         HERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE IPY81-86)
(US$ MLtlLon)                              FY81      FY82      FY83      PY84      FY85     FYo6                                        US$ WIlion    I
Exports of Goods and NFS                   248.6      293.0    285.5    317.3    304.1    297.1              Coffee                           46.4      23.1
Imports of Goods and NFS                  -473.4    -444.0   -455.1   -481.6   -468.3   -435.4               Cocoa                             4.8       2.4
Resource Balance (defieLt -)              -224.8    -151.0   -169.6   -164.3   -164.2   -138.3               Essential OLls                    5.4       2.7
Assembly Industry (Net)          81.5      40.5
Nat Factor Income                          -14.7      -16.8    -24.5    -19.8    -14.6    -14.0              Small Industry & Handleraft    27.6        13.7
Net Private Transfera                       64.8       49.7     4z.5      45.0      48.1     50.1            All Other Comodities             35.6      17.7
Balance on Current Account                -174.7    -118.1   -151.6   -139.1   -130.7   -102.2                 Total                         201.3    100.0
Official Transfers                          66.1       69.2     69.3      78.2      87.3    117.2
Net MHLT Borrowing (DRS)                   102.0       30.3     75.9      55.3      22.7      22.7
DLsbursements                            112.7       46.4     89.5      69.1      28.4     29.5
Amortization                             -10.7      -16.1    -13.6    -13.8       -5.7     -6.8
Other Officiel Capital                       1.7       -8.1      -5.6     -8.2      13.6    -10.0
Change In Net Reserves a/                   17.1        1.0       1.9      4.9      14.1      -9.3
Net Reserves                               -22.4      -41.7    -58.2    -74.1    -92.9    -75.0
EXTERNAL TRADE                                                                                               EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1986   US$ Million
FY81      FY82      FY83      FY84     FY85      FY86                                        ,                               )
(US$ MLilLion)                                                                              _               Public Debt, Lncluding Guaranteed bI   555.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Merchandlse Exports                        158.2      195.3    195.1    229.5    217.3    212.3              Total Outstanding and DLsbursed
PrLmary                                   78.6       96.4     94.6    104.9       90.4     88.1
Manufactures                              79.6       98.9    100.4    124.7    126.9    124.2              DEST SERVICE RATIO FOR FY86
Merchandise Imports (c.L.f.)               418.5      396.3    411.7    435.2    449.0    389.2
Food Products          &                  91.9       72.8     79.1      79.8      85.9      71.4           PubiLc Debt, ineluding Guaranteed bI    16.6
Petroleum                                 64.7       55.6     61.3      61.4      63.9     53.8            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Machinery and Equipment                  105.4       89.0     74.0      80.6      82.5      66.3           Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Hanufactures                              94.3      109.6    103.7    111.4    118.4    113.5
OtheF'                                    82.2       69.3     93.6    102.0       98.3      84.2           IDA LENDING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1986
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                             Outstanding and DLsbursed                 209.3
--___________     1Undlsbursed                                                                                                                  62.9
Outstanding, LncLuding Undlsbursed        271.4      o 
US$1.00 - G 5.00
G 1.00 - US$0.20
OH
0I
*/ Increase is mInus.
b/ Estimateds excludes IMF Standby.
09-Dec-86



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Amount in USS million
(Less cancellation)
Credit Fiscal
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose       Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
One loan and 12 credits have been fully disbursed   2.6        124.2
1131-HA  1981  Republic of Haiti  Industrial Credit              7.0       0.4
1220-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Highways VI                   14.0       3.3
1257-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Forestry                       4.0       2.5
1281-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Power III                     26.0        1.4
1305-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Education III                  9.0        1.4
1338-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Development              8.0       2.9
SF01-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Develoment              13.0       11.8
1410-HA  1984  Republic of Haiti  Rural
Development II           19.1       9.5
1527-HA  1985  Republic of Haiti  Fourth Power                  22.1      18.2
1592-HA  1985  Republic of Haiti  Fourth Education
and Training             10.0      10.6a/
TOTAL                                         2.6   256.4
of which has been repaid                    2.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                      271.4a/
Amount sold                     0.6
of which has been repaid      0.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                               62.1
a/ Difference due to SDR exchange rate.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
HAITI
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Investment    Fiscal                        Type of
Number         Year        Obligor          Business    Loan   Equity   Total
-US$ Million---
620-HA        1982    Promoteurs et        Integrated   1.35    0.15      1.50
Investisseurs       Poultry
Associes, S. A.
Total Gross Commitments                                  1.35    0.15     1.50
Less cancellations, repayment, and sales                0.06      -       0.06
Total commitments now held by IFC                        1.29    0.15     1.44
Total Undisbursed                                       0.75    0.04      0.79



- 26 -
HAITI                         Annex III
SEVENTH TRANSPORT PROJECT               Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: DDT, SEMANAH, APN, with assistance of
consultants and IDA missions.
(c)  Sector/Identification mission:       December 1984
(d)  Preparation mission:                 March 1985
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:      July 7, 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations:          December 4, 1986
gg)  Planned Date`of EffectiVeness:       May 1987
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The transport sector investments for FY87-91 would be restricted to
an agreed list of investments which would be reviewed with the
Association each year in respect to their budgetary allocations for
both capital and recurrent costs (para. 34). If the Government
decided to proceed with its proposal to improve the airport at Cap
Haitien, its financing would be limited exclusively to one-third of
air passenger departure tax proceeds (para. 32).
(b) The Government would enforce fully the vehicle dimension and
axle-load control regulations. Towards that end, additional funds
and manpower would be provided to DDT to strengthen its enforcement
effort. The Government would exchange views with the Association on
the progress, by June 30 of each year, during the project
implementation period (para. 46).
(c) The Government would put into effect its proposed new international
ports tariffs and charges by October 1, 1987, taking into
consideration the Association's comments (para. 50).
(d) By July 1, 1987, the Government would submit for the Association's
review and comments, its proposed new tariffs for the use of
cabotage ports, and put them into effect by October 1, 1987, taking
into account the Association's comments (para. 50).



- 27 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e) By June 30, 1987, the Government would submit for the Association's
review and comments, details of a technical assistance program to
improve its labor-based methods of road construction, including
pilot road construction sites in two regions of the country, and
would review the progress-by June 30 each Sear with the-Association
during the project implementation period (para. 63).
(f) Given amounts of budgetary funds would be allocated and disbursed to
SEPRRN on a timely basis to enable it to carry out an agreed road
maintenance program (para. 63).
(g) Given amounts of budgetary funds would be allocated and disbursed to
SEMANAR on a timely basis to enable it to implement its program of
strengthening its administration, management and operations
(para. 64).
Section IV: Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) The Government's setting up of a Project Coordinating Unit and
appointment of a fulltime Project Implementaion Officer (para. 68);
and
(b) the Government's establishment of a Special Account and a Project
Account, and the Government's initial deposit of US$0.4 million
equivalent into the Project Account (para. 72).
Section V: Condition of Disbursement:
The Government's entering into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with APN,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, as a condition of
disbursement of the credit component of US$0.28 million, pertaining to the
part of the project to be executed by APN (para. 68).



C uA
HAITI    '                          -_
JAMAICA                 ~~~~PduIwo .,co                      PJ(iIt I NICIJI Al
.                                                                                              -z,  'v85li85   OtM FS
a   .00  200 -00
v. ' \_
HAITI
TRANSPORT VIl PROJECT
COMPONENTS UNDER PREVIOUS PROJECTS                            PROJECT
ROAD REHABILITATED UNDER SIXTH                                ROAD IMPROVFMENTS
HIGHWAV PROJECT                                      .4       PORT IMPROVEMENTS
-  _ ROADS REHABILITATED UNDER FIFTH                       '3'OI,:   BRIDGE REHABILITATION
HIGHWAY PROJECT
BRIDGES REHABILITATED UNDER SIXTH                             NEW EIRIDGFS
HIGHWAV PROJECT
BRIDGES CONSTRUCTED UNDFR FIFTH
HIGHWAY PROJECT
BRIDGES REPAIRED                                     -8P      ROUTE NUMNERS
BOX CULVERTS REHABILITATED
CONCRETE FORD
EXISTING CABOTAGE PORTS
0      10      40 30          a.
EXISTING ROA1S                                                  KILOMETERS
NATIONAL ROADS
...........  OLD ASPHALT ROADS
I,,,          -GRAVEL ROADS
EARTH ROADS
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
_           t INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARtES
RIVERS
L-  14        I
22.341~~~~~~73O
`2333
-..-- ~ ~             f                     -r*u                  o.wf gtt 
,      .  -                               --------
N.,..'.
~~~.", ~ ~  ~    ~     a. co
18|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 C"3  ^,.,^3
.                                                   ,       I~~~~~~~~~~~N
h-- ~   ~    ~     ,~.   OO I.:7    0,,-                                                                        .~.
721  A.\



IBRD 19402
73.                                        3
L146~~~~~~~~.13
Mh T .DE .PAsIXr. -...
~~~~~~~~~t  f*
t , ~~~... i.i p.ede2<        ...........  l 14
P0..                 e~~~~~~AP-PHAITIEN
2 w --v        t ~~~~~~~~ (0)                                     T                        Pit t '  2 t 
_ -'-                    *4                     HoDig...4r, t      d       Tr...  >bD^ 
DO. 'Jo.d
Ro.v *4Se-- CY-'- r Z    <                                        =         .             ,   .I
GON^IVt5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 1i~~~~ '                                     -  is @-wF     
@ \ \ 9 ; 1, > H ~~~~~~~~I   *1* ,_
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C_d-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SSl                                               -    
h4~0
(*05 A.  _ane,._,-',
a   _ J            ?     I'   -     ;          O~~~~~~~I 
'-K _v  I       z
C   -  .          N           -   -----
PORT-AU-PRINCE
1<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
_          r      ,     _l          ;       l..,   ;0
G G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/-
r.W .                                 ''    .     - :         .rr
/v   _~ GOD.- 71qP                                 d-k -' ., P. b-W         ~  W -
/   \ .                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~(1403 
- ,   /*J    F;'.'.* -hdO
Z's -^  de  -  z. y- _- _-              Coe. Ja..u..I  't.                                  d-"..   I
N~~~~~~~~~~~~ *'I nr- Orsf h-W aVt FftIsa -dD"-* IW 8-ai el Aw JMId
---                           xS~~~~~~~~~~~~230                          N
JANUARY 1986



