OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1756 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Seventh Transport Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                      /2      , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1756 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       F'AE-LA(         (2-              1987,
between REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the Bo ower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DDT" means Direction des Transports, a directorate
within the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications;
(b) "APN" means Autorite Portuaire Nationale, a public
agency of the Borrower established under a Decree dated March 15,
1985, published in Le Moniteur of July 11, 1985;
(c) "APN Statutes" means Decree dated March 15, 1985, as
published in Le Moniteur of July 11, 1985;
(d)  "SEMANAH" means   Service  Maritime   et  de  Navigation
d'Haiti, an agency establLshed pursuant to a Decree published in
Le Moniteur on March 11, 1982, under the Borrower's Ministry of
Public Works, Transport and Communications;


﻿-2-
(e) "Subsidiary   Loan   Agreement"   means  the   agreement
to   be entered into between the Borrower and APN pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f) "1987-1991 Investment Program" means the program of
transport investments for the fiscal years 1987 through 1991 to
be carried out by the Bo:rower and included in the Annex to
Schedule 2;
(g) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(h) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(i) "Gourde" means the Borrower's currency unit; and
(j) "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's and APN'o
fiscal year commencing on October 1 and ending on September 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 16,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank satisfactory to the Association on terms and conditions


﻿-3-
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of on per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the Association   shall  reasonably   request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 1997, and ending
September 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on September 15, 2006, shall be one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A and B of
the Project as follows: Part A through DDT and Part B with the
participation of SEMANAH with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic
and engineering practices; (ii) cause APN to carry out Part C of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, economic and engineering practices;
and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to APN the proceeds of the
Credit allocated for Part C of the Project, in an amount not to
exceed $280,000 equivalent under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and APN, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
including, inter alia, a term of 7 years including 2 years     of
grace and interest at the rate of 5% per annum, and APN's
obligation to carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) establish and there-
after maintain, in the Borrower's Banque de la Republic d'Haiti,
a project account to be used for expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project; (b) deposit therein an amount in
Gourdes equivaleit to $400,000; and (c) replenish such account so
that the aggregate amounts available in such account do not fall
below the amount of counterpart funds required by the Borrower
to meet, together with the proceeds of the Cre,;7, two months of
estimated expenditures under the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) establish, and there-
after maintain, a Project Coordination Unit composed of the
Directors of DDT, APN, SEMANAH and of a senior representative of
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, chaired by the Director of
DDT, and with powers and responsibilities to, inter alia,
oversee, coordinate, monitor and report to the Association on the
progress of, the carrying out of the Project; (b) appoint, and
thereafter maintain, as a full-time Project Implementation
Officer, a qualified engineer with not less than ten years of
professional experience in the transport sector, of which at
least five years shall include his or her substantive parti-
cipation in the implementation of road projects financed by
international organizations, and with powers and responsibi-
lities for the daily supervision of the carrying out of the
Project under the guidance of the chairman of the Project
Coordination Unit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section;
and (c) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources, required for the operation of such
unit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) at all times cause its: (i) public roads network to be
maintained and all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in
accordance with appropriate practices; and (ii) road maintenance
equipment to be maintained and all necessary repairs, renewals
and replacements thereof to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices;
(b) make available to DDT the yearly amounts required for
purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section and for the operations
of  its  road maintenance   service in   amounts which, unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, shall not be lower than:
(i) $8,800,000 equivalent for Fiscal Year 1988; (ii) $9,700,000


﻿-6-
equivalent for Fiscal Year 1989; (iii) $10,600,000 equivalent for
Fiscal Year 1990; and (iv) $11,800,000 equivalent for Fiscal Year
1991; and
(c) not later than June 30, 1987 and every June 30, there-
after: (i) furnish to the Association for its comments, the pro-
gram to be carried out under Part A.5 of the Project, including
the technical assistance required for such program, and the
selection of the sites where the works will be carried out; and
(ii) promptly thereafter carry out such program taking into
account, the comments, if any, made by the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) commencing in 1987 and
not later than June 30 each year, inform the Association of any
proposal of the Borrower to modify the 1987-1991 Investment
Program; (b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on any such proposal; (c) not
commit itself to, or incur any capital expenditure (other than
those included in the 1987-1991 Investment Program) unless the
Borrower shall have determined, to the satisfaction of the
Association, that: (i) the proposed expenditures are economically
justified in the context of the Borrower's priorities for
national economic development and for the development of the
transport sector, and (ii) the Borrower has secured adequate
financing for such expenditure, including the recurrent costs
associated with it; and (d) without limitation to the provisions
of paragraph (c) of this Section, and in the event that it
undertakes to carry out any improvements in its Cap Haitien
Airport (other than those included in the 1987-1991 Investment
Program): (i) restrict such improvements, in each Fiscal Year, to
those that can be financed exclusively out of one-third of the
amounts collected by the Borrower in the previous Fiscal Year
from its air passenger departure tax; and (ii) not apply the
proceeds of any grant or external indebtedness to the financing
of such improvements.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) (i) ensure that the
weight of vehicles using the Borrower's public roads network
shall not exceed 18 tons per single axle or a total weight of 40
tons per vehicle, and (ii) to that end, and not later than March
31, 1987: (A) provide DDT with an amount equivalent to $240,000,
and (B) appoint, on a full-time basis, a qualified chief for
DDT's weight control services; and (b) not later than June 30
each  year   during  Project  implementation,   review  with   the
Association the actions taken or to be taken for the enforcement
of such axle load restrictions.


﻿-7-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall provide all such amounts
as shall be required by SEMANAH for the carrying out of Part B
of the Project and which, unless otherwise agreed by the Asso-
ciation shall not be lower than: (a) $800,000 equivalent for
fiscal year 1988; (b) $900,000 equivalent for fiscal year
1989; (c) $1,000,000    equivalent for fiscal year     1990; and
(d) $1,200,000 equivalent for fiscal year 1991.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained separate records and accounts adequate to re-
flect in accordance with sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts A and B
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and
(ii) cause APN to maintain separate records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) (A) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section, for each fiscal year audited,
and (B) cause APN to audit the accounts referred
to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, all in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish, and cause APN to furnish, to the Associa-
tion, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish and cause APN to furnish, to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the said
accounts and the audit thereof and said records as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-8-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain or cause to be retained, until at least one
year after the completion of the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause APN to, not later
than October 1, 1987, put into effect the schedule of tariffs
and charges for the use of international ports contained in
APN's final report entitled "Port-au-Prince International Port:
Structure and level of taxes for 1987-1989" and published on
July 1986, as amended, if required, to take into account the
comments, if any, to be provided by the Association upon its
review of such report.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause APN to: (a) not later
than July 1, 1987, furnish to the Association for its comments
the schedule of tariffs and charges to be applied by APN for the
use of cabotage ports; and (b) put into effect, not later than
October 1, 1987, such schedule of tariffs and charges as amended
if required to take into account the comments, if any, made by
the Association.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall, and shall cause APN to:
(a) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, economic and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
Cc) at   all  times,   operate  and  maintain   its  plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
economic practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) APN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) The APN Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of APN to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of APN or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 10 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)  that the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement shall have been established in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association and that the officer referred to
in Section 3.04 (b) shall have been appointed;
(b) that the Borrower shall have opened the Special Account
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and
(c)  that the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agree-
ment; and shall have made the deposit referred to in paragraph
(b) of such Section.
Section 7.02. The date M         (6117   is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cles III, IV and V of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie et des Finances
Palais des Ministeres
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:                      Telex:
Minist&re de 1'Economie             2030347
et des Finances
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works for Parts A         11,320,000        80%
and B of the
Project
(2) Goods for Part A           1,180,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                             expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
and 85% of other
local expendi-
tures (off-
the-shelf)
(3) Technical
Assistance,
Training,
Consultants'
Services and
Audits:
(a) for Parts A           2,450,000  )
and B of the                    )
Project                         )     100%
(b) for Part C of           210,000  )
the Project                     )
(4) Unallocated                1,440,000
TOTAL               16,600,000


﻿14
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 990,000, may be made in
respect of Part A.1 of the Project, and of engineering studies
for Parts A.2, B.1 and B.2 of the Project, on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1986;
and
(b) payments for expenditures under Part C of the Project
until the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed by
the Borrower and APN and a legal opinion or opinions satisfactory
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association
specifying that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and APN and is legally binding upon the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) the improvement and
development of the Borrower's road network and coastal shipping
infrastructure in support of its agriculture and industry devel-
opment; and (b) the strengthening of the Borrower's transport
institutions.
The Project is part of the 1987-1991 Investment Program and
consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Roads and Bridges
1.   Rehabilitation of about 38 bridges and drainage struc-
tures located on departmental and secondary roads.
2.   Construction  of  the Fer-a Cheval bridge, and      the
Guayamouc bridge   at Hinche   in  the Departement du
Centre.
3.   Rehabilitation of the North Road between Gonaives and
Cap Haitien of about 35 kilometers.
4.   Acquisition and utilization of tools, equipment and
spare parts for road maintenance.
5.   Strengthening  of   DDT's  skills  in   planning,  road
maintenance, equipment management, staff training and
a program for improving and developing labor-based
techniques for construction of secondary roads.
Part B:   Maritime Services
1.   Construction of a slipway and a yard for the inspection
of boats.
2.   Establishment of a training center for seamen.
3.   Strenthening of SEMANAH's administration, management
and operation.


﻿- 16 -
Part C:   Port Management
1.   Carrying out of engineering studies and designs for the
improvement of the cabotage port of Jeremie.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 17 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
1987-1991 Investment Program
A.   Road Subsector
(a) Engineering Studies & Design
Road Name                      Length   Estimated Cost
(km)      ($ Million)
1.   Gross Morne-Port de Paix         50            0.6
2.   Hinche-St. Raphael-Trou
du Nord                        91            1.2
3.   Mirebalais-Belladere             74            0.9
(b) Construction/Rehabilitation
1.   Mirebalais-Pont Sonde            74           38.0
2.   Trou Cayman-Terre Rouge          11            6.0
3.   Secondary and Tertiary Roads    750           36.0
4.   Bridge and Culvert
Rehabilitation                 -            20.0
5.   Equipment and Tools                            2.0
6.   Technical Assistance and
Training                       -             5.0
Sub-total                       884          109.7
B.   Ports and Maritime Subsector
Investment Item                         Estimated Cost
($ Million)
(a) APN
1.   Port Maintenance and other Equipment           2.0
2.   Repair of Jeremie Port, including
Engineering                                  1.0
3.   Miscellaneous items for the
Cap Haitien Port                             3.0
4.   Rehabilitation of La Tortue and
Ille a Vache Ports                           2.0


﻿- 18 -
5.   Technical Assistance and Data
Processing Equipment                         1.0
Investment Item                         Estimated Cost
($ Million)
(b) SEMANAH
1.   Coastal Radio Communications and
Navaids                                      1.2
2.   Slipways and Yard, Boat Inspection             1.4
3.   Training Center and Equipment                  1.0
4.   Technical Assistance, Institutional
Strengthening                                0.5
Sub-total                                     13.1
C.   Civil Aviation Subsector
1.   Expansion of Terminal Building
Hall at Port-au-Prince Airport               0.4
2.   Equiptaent and Facilities for
Port-au-Prince Airport                       1.2
3.   Safety Equipment at Cap Haitien Airport        0.5
Sub-total                                      2.2
Summary (A+B+C)
A.   Road Sub-sector                                   109.7
B.   Port and Maritime Subsector                        13.1
C.   Civil Aviation Subsector                            2.2
Grand Total (A+B+C)                          125.0


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A.2, A.3, B.1 and
B.2 of the Project shall be prequalified as described in para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Haiti
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equiv-
alent of $1,100,000; and goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 20 -
Part F:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 21 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Action
1.   Commencement of work by the
following consultants
(a) Transport management        )
expert to study the        )
restructuring of DDT       )
included under Part A.5    )
of the Project             )
)      June 30, 1987
(b) Transport planner and       )
economist for DDT          )
included under Part A.5    )
of the Project             )
2.   Commencement of work in SEMANAH,
on a full time and permanent basis,
of the following officers:
(a) technical operations        )
officer                    )
)      June 30, 1987
(b) Training officer            )


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categori-s" means Categories (i),
(2) and (3) (a) and (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 1,320,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3.(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 24 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 25 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


