Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15874
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2582-SE)
June 26, 1996
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Monetary Unit: CFA fratic (CFAF)
USS1.00 (I990) = CFAF 272
USSI.00(1991) = CFAF282
USSI.00(1992) =CFAF 265
USS1.00(1993) = CFAF283
US$1.00 (1994) = CFAF 555
USS1.00 ( 1995) -CFAF 499
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Nletric Ssstem
FISCAI YEAR
July I -June 30 (until Jtine 30. 1991)
JnIv 1-December 31 (18 months), for fiscal vears 1991/1992
Janiuar, I -December 31 (from Januan 1, 1993)
ABBREVIATIONS 'AD ACRONY'MS
AGETIP         :         ge 7oo cd c'.cc tarit des tI-,c culrs dinlt/e/il Ilic r/e  Irte le so00s emp/li/rn
(Public Works and Etnplc' ntent Project)
BCEAO           :        unq,re centrde des Elulr.Idc I tfique d, IOtrest (Central Bank)
BMOP            :       Bzrreuzr 'jr/u Acrin d Oewr me P-riuaire (Port Labor Office)
CFA             :       Cenrrterutcactfin rci,cr-e  fi icufure (African Financial Cornmunitm)
CNCAS                   Cause ntct-imttjc' de credir qperi-ule srb/golacse (Agricultural Bank)
CPSP            :              dcx.ce c/per/qt orr eir  c Jr stailhrcsa,tiour des pri.
(Fund for Price Equalization and Stabilizatiot)
CRJ                     Cr'rtttc d, rsfru-mccjuru/a/rce (Legal Reform Commitrtee)
DDI                     Direcct),,, dc (a derie ec dc  I ic est/ssetwcewr
(Directorate of Debt and Investrnent)
DPS            D: remr r del p,mr/srr,r esr/et deJ ctcisriquce
(Directorate of Forecasting and Statistics)
ESAF                   ,Enhanced structural adjustment facilit, (IMlF)
FSP                     FotlcI/,ci,cr dcc sleer p;ri e (Pric ate Sector Foundation)
GDP                     gross donrestic product
G&NFS           :       goods ard con-factor ser, ices
G&S             :       poods and serc ices
GRCC            :       Groupe de refle,xrtn stcr  1, crornrpirlile er la crnissance
(Competitir coess Rev iec, Group)
ICS             :       Ittducstrie.schi/niqnes cdc.Se/egal (Chemical Comnpany)
ONA             :       Office urin,mrcI dccssauinissewnel,c (National Sanitiation Office)
PASA                    Progupr rne dcajnsltener seciorielpuar, /cgricul-re
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program)
PASCO           :       Pr-mjer d cai/r-em   strncrrcr el cf de conrp/tivt/e
(Priate Sector Adjustment and Contpetitieness Credit)
PDRG                    Prile direcce-r do dc/ce/ ppencewtt inclegre c/e (c Ri e gapche
(Master Plan for Integrated Deselopment of the Left Banik of the Senegal
Riser)
PFP             :       Policc Frameccork Paper
PSACC          P: rate Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit
ETI P           :       Prog,upcmne e,, ,iecl d incesfissencents publics
(Three-Year Public Investment Program)
PFEER           :       Real effectise eschange rate
SENELEC                 Sociele nccrioncale d c/ee itc ie/c .S/eegal (Poser Company)
SODEFiTEX    :          Sociue     e d/c elopp/.;rpet.ci des fib,es textiles (Textile Company)
SONACOS         :       Socicte ntior,rcale de crrncrrrererc/hsurio, des cr//agineux du Sen/gal
(Groundnut Oil Company! )
SONES                   Sociele -tationltae des earu du Senegal (National Water Company)
SONEES          :       Soc/cte ncariuo,u/e d'expl/cccaricir des eate  du Sen/gal
(National W'ater Supply Company)
UEMOA           :       Union coar...niq,le el ....../ta/re o,esl-africaine
(West African Economic and Monetar, Union)
VAT                     Value-added tax



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit No. 2582-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE...
SUMMARY EVALUATION ...........................................j..
PROJECT BACKGROUND.
EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ............................................                                                ii
PROJECT RESULTS AND SlJSTAINABILITY ............................................i jj
BANK PERFORMANCE ...........................................                                                                   iV
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................... iV
SUMMARY OF OUTCOME AND FUTURE OPERATIONS ........................................... iV
LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................                                                                     V
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................I
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND ............................................I
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  DESIGN  ........................             ......... .....................2
Ill. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................3
A. Macroeconomic Results.                                                                                                    3
B. Social Safety Net ......................................4
C. Continuation of Dialogue between Senegal and the Bank .                       .............................................5
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ..............................................5
V. SUSTAINABILITY  OF RESULTS .............................................                                                     6
Vl. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK.                                                                                                     6
VII. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER ..............................................6
A. Preparation and Implementation .............................................6
B. Disbursement and Procurement ..............................................7
C. Audits.                                                                                                                   7
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..............................................7
IX. FUTURE OPERATIONS .............................................            .8
X. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..8
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEX ..9
PART III: BORROWER EVALUATION .............................................                                                    16
MAP
| This document has a restricteJ distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Credits 2582-SE
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC) in Senegal. for which an IDA credit Cr. 2582-SE was granted for the amount
of SDR 18.2 million (US$25 million equivalent). This credit was approved by the Board
of Executive Directors on March 17, 1994, and made effective on March 24, 1994. A
supplement (Cr. 2582-1-SE) was also made effective on January 9, 1995 with a grant of
SDR 2.3 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) from Fifth Dimension Program funds. The
credit was fully disbursed in two tranches on March 29, 1994, and January 13, 1995. Both
the credit and the supplement closed on December 27, 1995.
This ICR was prepared by Abdoulaye Seck of the World Bank Resident Mission in
Dakar (AF5SN). The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by submitting its
evaluation of the project execution and achievements. The ICR was reviewed at Bank
Headquarters by the Country Operations Division, Western Africa Department, and by
Emmerich M. Schebeck, Projects Advisor of the same Department.
The ICR is based on the Report and Recommendation of the President to the
Executive Directors (Report No. P-6273-SE), material in the project files, the Country
Assistance Strategy for Senegal (Report No. 13909-SE), and findings of the project
completion mission of December 11 - 17, 1995.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Credit 2582-SE
SUMMARY EVALUATION
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.   In the mid- 1970s. Senegal initiated a policy of public sector expansion, following a
series of good harvests and a period of high prices for its export commodities. By the end
of the decade, however, lower phosphate prices and a decline in groundnut production had
resulted in a general state of both domestic and external disequilibrium.
2.    Four structural adjustment operations undertaken with the Bank between 1981 and
1994 failed to solve the problem of high production costs in the Senegalese economy.
With the economic recession of the mid-1980s. the country's lack of competitiveness
began to worsen when Senegal could not utilize a parity change to respond to two
exogenous shocks: (i) deterioration of the terms of trade and (ii) appreciation of the
French franc against the dollar. By the end of 1993, the CFA franc was overvalued by an
estimated 40%. In August 1993, the Government launched a stabilization program known
as the Emergency Plan which failed because of the glaring overvaluation of the CFA franc
and a lack of external financial assistance. By then, it had become clear that nothing short
of a global adjustment strategy could bring about a sustainable recovery in growth and
reduce poverty. On January 12, 1994, Senegal and its partners in the franc zone realigned
their currency, changing the parity of the CFA franc from 50 to 100 CFAF per FF.
EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
3.    The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) was designed to provide emergency support
to the post-devaluation reform program. This program was also supported by an IMF
stand-by arrangement in the amount of US$63.3 million, converted into an ESAF in
August 1994, at which point the Bank and the IMF approved a Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) covering the period 1994-97. The ERC aimed at containing the adverse effects of
the devaluation while continuing to implement necessary sectoral and structural reforms to
- 11 -



ensure improved competitiveness. The objectives of the Economic Recovery Credit were
to:
(i) support the Government's reform program, outlined in its Statement of
Economic and Social Policies dated February 23, 1994, and more particularly the
measures aiming at minimizing the negative social impact of the devaluation in the
short term;
(ii) provide the necessary financial assistance during the transition period in which
follow-up operations were being prepared; and
(iii) continue the policy dialogue between the Government and IDA.
4.    The ERC was conceived as a single tranche operation with all conditionalities
front-loaded. This design was influenced by the fact that budgetary support needed to be
made available rapidly in order for the Government to consolidate the gains of the
devaluation and respect its financial program.
5.    The objectives of the credit were clearly defined and consistent with the
Government's economic policy reform program. The credit's scope and timing were
appropriate and responsive to the country's circumstances and priorities. It contributed to
the Government meeting most of its financial requirements and implementing measures to
ensure real depreciation and improve the country's competitiveness.
PROJECT RESULTS AND SUSTAINABILITY
6.    The objectives of the ERC were generally met. The results are likely to be
sustainable provided that the Government remains committed to the reforms introduced
under the ERC.
7.    Appropriate budgetary and monetary policies contributed to the Government's
success in controlling inflation. Average annualized inflation in 1994 was below the
program goal, while the REER had depreciated by an estimated 36.3% by December 1994.
This significant gain in competitiveness paved the way for a recovery in exports and a
resumption of growth. GDP growth in real terms in 1994 was 2%, lower than projected
but a net improvement over 1993 (-2.1%). Increases in producer prices for oil-quality
groundnuts and cotton allowed rural incomes to increase by 32.5%. Devaluation of the
CFA franc by 50% made it possible to simplify and reduce tariffs, giving impetus to future
reforms.
8.    On the social front, a temporary subsidy of CFAF 15 billion was allocated to limit
the upward movement of prices for such products as rice, wheat flour, pharmaceutical
products, and books (education sector). However, the effect of the social safety net
- iii -



appears to have been weakened by the urgent nature of the program, which did not allow
for sufficient time to organize appropriate targeting mechanisms.
BANK PERFORMANCE
9.    Overall Bank performance in identification, preparation, and appraisal was
satisfactory. The Bank responded appropriately to an emergency situation requiring
urgent measures. However, as it was a one tranche operation with all conditionalities
front-loaded, supervision by the Bank following credit effectiveness was weak. In spite of
this, negotiations on the Sixth-Year and Seventh-Year PFPs, as well as those on the
Private Sector SECAL, gave Bank staff the opportunity to ensure that the authorities were
maintaining their reform efforts.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
10.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The Borrower complied with all
legal and financial covenants including the submission of the audit report received by the
Bank in October 1995. The Government encouraged dialogue with those affected by the
reforms by setting up a tripartite Devaluation Management Commission; it was thus able
to develop a consensus on the reform program and prevent social unrest. An open and
healthy dialogue with the Bank and the IMF was maintained and all agreed reforms were
undertaken.
SUMMARY OF OUTCOME AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
11.   The outcome of the ERC is satisfactory. Following the devaluation, the program
supported by the ERC resulted in a depreciation of 36.3% of the REER, a major gain in
competitiveness that paved the way not only for Senegal's export recovery but also its
resumption of growth, which reached 2% in 1994. Higher producer prices increased rural
income and thus contributed to poverty alleviation. The social safety net could have been
more effectively targeted, although the measures achieved in the ERC mitigated the impact
of the parity adjustment on the most vulnerable groups in the population. Finally, the
devaluation and the ensuing fiscal reform process acted as powerful stimuli for structural
reforms in Senegal.
12.   The ERC, by creating a favorable environment, prepared the way for subsequent
operations.  The Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit and the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, approved by the Board in February and June
1995 respectively, aim at increasing the competitiveness of Senegalese enterprises by
promoting real competition. An adjustment program to address administrative reforms
- iv -



and the budgetary process and improve the efficiency and the capacity of Government to
carry out policies is being considered for FY98.
LESSONS LEARNED
13.   Three lessons can be drawn from implementation of the ERC:
First, Government's firm commitment to the reform program was a key
element in the success of the operation.
Second. budgetary support in a single-tranche disbursement was a
satisfactory response to an emergency situation. Because the credit was tied to
adjustment measures on which the Government was firmly committed, IDA was
able to provide financial assistance when needed, thus laying the ground for the
preparation of subsequent and more comprehensive adjustment lending.
Third, as far as poverty reduction is concerned, specific mechanisms for
targeting vulnerable groups should be identified beforehand so that the impact on
such groups can be maximized. Geographic targeting combined with established
programs, such as food or cash-for-work, could be considered to have a stronger
impact on the poor.
-v -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Credits 2582-SE
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Identity
Program Name:             Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
Credit Number:            Credit No. 2582-SE
Amount:                   SDR 18.2 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:                    IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Borrower:                 The Republic of Senegal
Date approved:            March 17, 1994
Date effective:           March 24, 1994
Date Closed:              December 27, 1995
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.   In the mid- 1970s, Senegal initiated a policy of public sector expansion, following a
series of good harvests and a period of high prices for its export commodities. By the end
of the same decade, however, lower phosphate prices and a decline in groundnut
production had resulted in a general state of both domestic and external disequilibrium. In
the 1980s, the country began to receive major bilateral and multilateral assistance in
support of various stabilization and structural adjustment plans. In particular, the World
Bank funded four structural adjustment programs and two sector adjustment operations
between 1981 and 1994. Weaknesses coupled with hesitations in instituting structural
reforms were to push Senegal into a serious crisis situation.
2.    The structural adjustment programs financed by the Bank failed to solve the
problem of high production costs in the Senegalese economy. The recession and the
problem with competitiveness began to worsen in the mid-1980s when Senegal was not
able to use a parity change to respond to two exogenous shocks: (i) deterioration of the
terms of trade (-14% between 1983 and 1990); and (ii) appreciation of the French franc



against the dollar following the Plaza Agreement of September 1995. The resulting
overvaluation of the CFA franc was accentuated by the devaluation introduced by certain
competing countries (Nigeria, Ghana. etc.). Between 1981 and 1989. the real effective
exchange rate (REER) in Senegal was to appreciate by 92% compared to Ghana, 75%
compared to Nigeria, and 40% compared to China. By the end of 1993, the CFA franc
was overvalued in Senegal by an estimated 40%. This massive loss of competitiveness
was to produce a falling off in exports and a structural deficit in the current account
balance. The fact that the Government then adopted a highly protectionist trade policy and
multiplied the number of special arrangements in its efforts to mitigate the effects of such
a loss resulted in further productivity loss for domestic enterprises, and a decline in
customs revenue.
3.    The overall downturn in activity led to a shrinkage of the tax base, and thus to
revenue losses and new downward pressures on education and health expenditures. In
August 1993, the Government launched a stabilization program known as the Emergency
Plan. Although it consisted of vigorous measures, such as a 15% reduction in the public
sector payroll, and a series of measures to increase revenue (in particular, increases in
customs duties and petroleum product prices), the Plan failed because of the glaring
overvaluation of the CFA franc and a lack of external financial assistance. GDP growth in
1993 was negative (-2.1%). The budget deficit, on a commitment basis and excluding
grants, was equivalent to -4% of GDP. Payment arrears continued accumulating: CFAF
47 billion in domestic arrears and CFAF 174 billion in external arrears, giving a total
equivalent to 13.8% of GDP. The current account deficit grew to -5.6% of GDP, due to
the sharp drop in exports (-7.2%). By this point, it had become clear that nothing short of
a global adjustment strategy could bring about a sustainable recovery in growth and reduce
poverty. Effective January 12, 1994, Senegal, in agreement with its partners in the franc
zone, realigned its currency, changing the parity of the CFA franc from 50 to 100 CFAF
per FF.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
4.    Objectives: The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) was designed to support the
reform program introduced by the Government following the devaluation of the CFA franc
as set out in its Statement of Economic and Social Policies adopted on February 23, 1994.
This program also had the backing of an IMF stand-by arrangement, later converted into
an ESAF in August 1994 when the Bank and the IMF approved a Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) covering the period 1994-97. The objectives of the ERC were: (i) to support the
Government's reform program, and more particularly the measures aimed at minimizing
the negative social impact of the devaluation in the short tern; (ii) to provide necessary
financial aid for the transition period, while follow-up operations were being prepared; and
(iii) to continue the policy dialogue between the Governrment and IDA.
- 2 -



5.    Design: The ERC formed part of the IDA strategy for creating the conditions that
would ensure a positive post-devaluation supply response. It was intended as a quick-
disbursing adjustment operation set up to provide budgetary aid at the appropriate time,
and to make funding available for investment operations.
6.    Benefits:  The ERC was expected to help the Government in managing the
transition following the currency realignment, assisting it in maintaining macroeconomic
equilibrium and meeting the immediate social needs of the post-adjustment period. In
addition, human resources development would be accelerated by increasing access to basic
services and developing opportunities for income creation in both rural and urban areas.
7.    Risks: Although there were short-term risks of urban disturbances in the short
term in reaction to employment loss, inflation, and a decrease in the standard of living, two
important factors were expected to help avoid them: (i) the provision of supporting
measures under the ERC such as a subsidy fund (social safety net) and temporary price
controls; and (ii) support from major opposition parties for the economic reform program
as the only way out of the crisis.
III. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The ERC accomplished its key objectives. Careful management of overall demand
following the devaluation of the currency by 50% made it possible to limit inflation and to
depreciate the REER significantly. The Government undertook a series of key macro-
economic and structural measures which regained and consolidated competitiveness.
A.    Macroeconomic Results
9.    After devaluation of the CFA franc, an appropriate budgetary and monetary policy
enabled the Government to gain control of inflation and to depreciate the real effective
exchange rate by 36.3% in 1994. Although the public sector payroll was held below the
prescribed figure of CFAF 149 billion, a steeper than anticipated drop in Government
revenue, especially from imports, resulted in a budget deficit equivalent to 5.7% of GDP
instead of the 3.6%  initially projected.  The drop in revenue from  imports was a
consequence of the decline in import volume, itself traceable to three factors: (i) some
displacement of demand toward local products; (ii) accumulation of significant stocks of
major products in late 1993 in anticipation of the devaluation; and (iii) a shift in the
structure of imports toward less heavily taxed capital goods. Because of this revenue
shrinkage, the country's external arrears could not be eliminated entirely by December
1994 as anticipated. The downward trend in revenue flows was mirrored in capital
expenditures: CFAF 100 billion instead of the CFAF 112 billion projected in the program.
Credit policy was equally prudent: after the devaluation, the Central Bank raised its
discount rate from 10.5% to 14.5%, with a resulting increase in credit to the economy of
only 11.2% in 1994, well below the ceiling of 24.4% projected in the program.
-3 -



10.   Average annualized inflation in 1994 was 32.1%, below the program goal of 39%,
while the REER had depreciated by an estimated 36.3% by December 1994. This
significant gain in competitiveness paved the way for a recovery in exports and a
resumption of growth. Exports (current francs) showed very significant growth in sectors
such as tourism (118.3%), fisheries (134.7%), salt, groundnut products (314.2%), and
phosphoric acid. In aggregate, exports expanded by 8.1% in real terms in 1994. In
conjunction with a decline in imports, this increase in export business resulted in a current
account deficit of -9.3% of GDP, compared to the figure of -10.7% projected initially.
There was an equallv clear resurgence in both the cement and textile sectors. GDP growth
in real termns in 1994 was 2.0%. lower than projected but a net improvement over 1993
(-2.1%).
11.   Producer prices for oil-quality groundnuts, cotton, and rice rose by 43%, 29%, and
6% respectively. While the upswing in groundnut prices produced higher earnings, the
upward trend in cotton and rice prices was not strong enough to have the same impact.
Rural incomes are estimated to have increased by 32.5% in 1994 compared to 1993.
12.   Prior to realignment of the exchange rate, Senegal had long used second-best
solutions to offset the appreciation of the CFA franc, and in particular instruments such as
export subsidies and very high import tariff barriers. This was a situation conducive to the
proliferation of economic rents, faulty resource allocation, and increased tax evasion.
Devaluation of the CFA franc by 50% made it possible to reduce tariffs, which in turn
preserved the depreciation in the REER. Customs duties were thus lowered from a pre-
reform bracket of 6%-124% to one of 5%-45%. Standard values and minimum charges
were eliminated. The number of product categories was reduced from seven to four, and
the customs stamp duty was made uniform. Export subsidies were eliminated. Indirect
taxes were also recast for greater simplicity and lower rates: there are now two instead of
five VAT rates; and the new rates are in the 10%-20% range instead of the pre-reform
bracket of 7%-34%.
B.    Social Safety Net
13.   In order to provide against the short-term adverse impact of the devaluation on the
most vulnerable groups, a temporary subsidy of CFAF 15 billion was appropriated for use
in limiting the upward movement of prices for such products as rice, wheat flour,
pharmaceutical products, and books (education sector). Subsidy funds were allocated as
follows: rice prices, CFAF 8 billion; wheat prices, CFAF 2.5 billion; pharmaceutical
prices, CFAF 2.5 billion; and education, CFAF 2 billion. The effect of the social safety
net appears to have been less significant, doubtless because the subsidy arrangements were
too loosely targeted. Given the urgent nature of the program, there was not enough time to
organize appropriate targeting mechanisms, so that the potential impact on the poorest
groups was diluted. A report on the standard of living survey conducted in Senegal prior
to the devaluation estimated that it was 14 times more expensive to alleviate poverty
through a non-targeted approach than through an accurately targeted system. In the
- 4 -



specific case of the book subsidy. its purpose was defeated when France negotiated
directly with publishers to keep their CFAF prices for textbooks unchanged. The proceeds
of this component of the subsidy were used to ensure payment of the scholarships of
Senegalese students abroad instead.
14.   The Government emphasized that it was committed to maintaining expenditures on
human resources development, the quality of which is considered the best long-term
guarantee of growth. Education expenditures in fact rose by 12% in 1994. Priority was
given to primary schooling, which absorbed 79.3% of investment spending. Expenditures
on health rose by 0.5% in real terms, with the primary health care system absorbing 51%
of investment spending in the sector as a whole. In conjunction with the realignment of
the exchange parity in January 1994, the Government also exempted both social services
and essential commodities from the VAT.
C.    Continuation of Dialogue between Senegal and the Bank
15.   Following the devaluation of the CFA franc, a major obstacle to reform was
removed. The new climate created by the devaluation enabled the Bank to join forces with
Senegal to prepare two major adjustment programs to follow up on the ERC, namely, the
Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit (Cr. 2681-SE) and the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program (Cr. 2738-SE), both approved by the Board in FY95.
Senegal's estimated financing needs following the devaluation totaled CFAF 597 billion.
However, before the necessary structural reforms could be put into effect, appropriate
steps were needed to secure the success of the devaluation, and it was in this spirit that the
ERC was designed.
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.   The program benefited from high international prices for Senegal's main export
commodities, namely groundnuts, cotton, and phosphoric acid. Major assistance was also
provided by both bilateral and multilateral donors, enabling the Government to cover its
substantial financing needs.
17.   The Government's willingness to engage in dialogue, and its commitment to
reform, were determining factors in the overall success of the program. By establishing a
tripartite Devaluation Management Commission, it was able to develop a consensus in
support of sometimes painful reform measures.
18.   The program was implemented through the Ministry of Finance, which possessed
the ability to provide the kind of post-devaluation management required, thanks mainly to
the Options Group set up in October 1992 and supported by an Institutional Development
Fund Grant from the Bank.
-5 -



V. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
19.   The main results of the ERC are likely to prove durable for four reasons: (i) the
trade policy distortions that previously undermined the competitiveness of Senegal's
enterprises were made superfluous by the marked depreciation of the REER; (ii) unlike
deflationary internal adjustment, competitive devaluation generates the kind of growth that
attracts further support; (iii) quite apart from the Government's commitment, major civil
groups, the independent press, and both management and labor associations are in favor of
continuing the reform process; and (iv) the adjustment programs prepared by the Bank as
follow-up operations to the ERC should help remove obstacles to strong growth, thereby
encouraging the partisans of reform. However, these results are subject to Government's
continuous commitment to the reform program. Moreover, it should pay attention to
administrative reforms in customs in order to consolidate revenue mobilization.
VI. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
20.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory during each phase of the program except
for supervision. Credit processing was completed in less than three months. The Bank
proved itself flexible here, in view of the difficulties it had encountered with previous
adjustment lending in Senegal. The emergency nature of the operation explains the
Bank's flexibility in the a--a of disbursement procedures, which were eased to allow quick
release of credit funds. The Bank's initial appraisal of Senegal's commitment, and of the
benefits and risks associated with the operation, was carried out correctly. However, as it
was a single tranche operation with all conditionalities front-loaded, follow-up by the
Bank was weak. In spite of this, negotiations on the Sixth-Year and Seventh-Year PFPs,
as well as those on the Private Sector SECAL, gave Bank staff the opportunity to verify
that the authorities were maintaining their reform efforts.
VII. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
A. Preparation and Implementation
21.   Overall, Government's performance was satisfactory. The key objectives of the
program were accomplished, in particular depreciation of the REER by 36.3%. The
Government also encouraged dialogue on the reform program. A committee comprising
representatives of the Government, the private sector, and unions was created to discuss
the main issues regarding the post-devaluation reform program. This dialogue was very
- 6 -



successful in avoiding major social conflicts. However, program implementation was
compromised by disappointing results in restoring revenue flows. Total revenue amounted
to CFAF 301.5 billion in 1994 compared to CFAF 395 billion projected in the program.
B. Disbursement and Procurement
22.   The proceeds of the Credit were used to reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of eligible general imports. Procurement by public agencies and the private sector of
imports valued at over US$5 million was by simplified international competitive bidding.
In the case of contracts below this threshold but over US$5,000, public sector agencies
followed standard government practices found acceptable by IDA in the past. In order to
permit rapid access to credit funds, no limits were placed on imports of oil or foodstuffs.
In the same vein, the cut-off date for retroactive financing was August 15, 1993,
sufficiently far back to ensure immediate utilization of the funds. A Special Account was
opened with the Central Bank to facilitate disbursements, and the initial deposit was
recovered with the release of the first tranche.
C. Audits
23.  In October 1995, Government delivered the audit of the credit accounts. A single
audit was carried out for both credits since the second and last disbursement was made in
January 1995, and there were no further developments. The audit was carried out in
accordance with accepted current practice in the profession. However, the Bank expressed
the wish to see subsequent audits conducted according to standards of the International
Federation of Accountants.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
24.   The outcome of the ERC is satisfactory. Following the devaluation, the program
supported by the ERC resulted in a depreciation of 36.3% in the REER, a major gain in
competitiveness that paved the way not only for Senegal's export recovery but also its
resumption of growth, which reached 2% in 1994. The higher producer prices increased
rural incomes and thus contributed to poverty alleviation. The social safety net instituted
could have been more effectively targeted; in spite of that, the measures achieved in the
ERC managed to mitigate the impact of the parity adjustment on the most vulnerable
groups in the population. Finally, the devaluation and the ensuing fiscal reform process
acted as powerful stimuli for structural reformns in Senegal.
- 7 -



IX. FUTURE OPERATIONS
25.   The ERC represents the first generation of post-devaluation measures. It has
created a favorable environment for the introduction of second-generation measures. The
latter consist of a structural adjustment and a sector adjustment program, whose objectives
are to increase the competitiveness of Senegalese enterprises by promoting real
competition. The Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit (Cr. 2681-SE),
the first of these operations, which was approved by the Board in February 1995, aims to
liberalize external trade, eliminate monopolies, reduce factor costs, and reform the labor
market in the interest of greater flexibility.
26.   The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (Cr. 2738-SE), the second of these
operations, which was approved by the Board in June 1995, is designed to bring about
reformis in the agricultural product exports system, liberalization of the rice subsector, and
eventual privatization of the production and marketing of products still handled by public
sector agencies.
27.   An adjustment program  addressing administrative reform  and the budgetary
process is planned for FY98.
X. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.   There are three main lessons to be drawn from the implementation of the ERC:
First, Government's firm commitment to the reform program was a key
element in the success of the operation.
Second, budgetary support in a single-tranche disbursement was a
satisfactory response to an emergency situation. Because the credit was tied to
adjustment measures on which the Government was firmly committed, IDA was
able to provide financial assistance when needed, thus laying the ground for the
preparation of subsequent and more comprehensive adjustment lending.
Third, as far as poverty reduction is concerned, specific mechanisms for
targeting vulnerable groups should be identified beforehand so that the impact on
such groups can be maximized. Geographic targeting combined with established
programs, such as food or cash-for-work, could be considered to have a stronger
impact on the poor.
-8 -



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1: Summary Evaluation
A. Achievement of Objectives   Total           Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic policv
Sector policy
Financial sector
Institutional development
Economic activities
Poverty reduction                   _
Gender issues                                                            i
Other social goals           _
Environment
Public sector                                  V
Private sector development   __
B. Project Sustainability     Likely           Unlikely     Uncertain
C. Bank Performance           Highly           Satisfactory   Deficient
satisfactory
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision                                                 ____i
D. Performance of Government Highly            Satisfactory   Deficient
of Senegal                   satisfactory
Preparation                                                 _
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation                                      i
E. Assessment of Outcome     Highly            Satisfactory   Unsatis-   Highly
satisfactory                    factory    unsatisfactory
-9



Table 2: Project Timetable
STEPS                                Projected date         Effective date
Identification                                              January 15-26, 1994
Preparation                                                 January 15-26, 1994
Appraisal                                                   January 15-26, 1994
Negotiations                                                February 28, 1994
Development Policy Letter            _                      February 23, 1994
Approval by the Board                                       March 17, 1994
Signature                                                   March 18, 1994
STEPS                                Projected date         Effective date
Effectiveness                                               March 24, 1994
Disbursement, Tranche I                                     March 29, 1994
Project Completion                                          December 30, 1995
Closing of Credit                    June 30, 1995          December 27, 1995
Table 3: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$10 )
|_______________________ |Cr. 2582-SE                  Supplement (Cr. 2582-1-SE)
Appraisal estimate         25                          3.2
Actual                     25                          3.2
Actual as % of estimate    100                         100
Date of final disbursement   March 29, 1994            January 13, 1995
Table 4: Social Safety Net (CFAF billions)
__________________________   Estimated  1994                Actual 1994
Rice                       8.0                             8.5
Wheat                      2.5                             2.0
Health                     2.5                             2.1
Education                  2.0                             2.0
Total                      15.0                            14.6
- 10-



Table 5: Matrix of Policy and Structural Measures
MEASURES                            TIMETABLE             REMARKS
1.  MACROECONOMIC MEASURES
Realignment of exchange parity. Set at CFAF 100 = FF I.   Jan. 12, 1994      Implemented.
11.   GOVERNMENT FINANCES
Increase in civil service salaries, returning them to their 1993    Retroactive to  Implemented.
level.                                                   Jan. 1, 1994
Ceiling of 10% on salary increases.                      After March 31,       Implemented.
1994
Ceiling of CFAF 149 billion on civil service payroll.    1994                  Implemented.
Containment of number of civil servants at 67,100, therefore    1994           Achieved: 'I'he number of civil servants was exactly
net recruitment of 0.                                                          66,696 as of December 31, 1994. In view of
Senegal's agreements with its development partners,
only 40% of those leaving civil service employment
were rep!aced.
Settlement of external payment arrears (CFAF 174.2 billion).   End 1994        Not achieved because of a new accumulation of
arrears. As of December 31, 1994, a total of CFAF
45.5 billion remained unpaid, for the following
reasons: reduced public revenue flows; and reduced
external financing.
Reduction of domestic payment arrears by at least CFAF 32  End 1994            Implemented.
billion.
Increase of CFAF 1 12 billion in central Government capital  1994              Not fully achieved. Final total of investment
spending.                                                                      expenditure was CFAF 100.2 billion.
Adoption of a revised three-year public investment program  1994               Implemented. The revised PTIP was passed by the
(1994-1996).                                                                   National Assembly on August 5, 1994.



111.   MONETARY AND FINANCIAL POLICY
MEASURES
Increase in Central Bantk discount rate, from 10.5% to 14.5%o    Jan. 18, 1994   Implemented.
Recapitalization of CNCAS (Agricultural Credit Banik)      1994                  Not implemented. the Governmient paid CFAF 600
million of its capital subscriptioni arrears.
IV. CUSTOMS TARIFFS AND OTHER CHARGES
Simplificationiofltarifllstructure: reductionofceilingrateto    Feb. 15,1994     Implemented.
45% and threshold rate to 10%; fixing of stamp duty at 5%.
Flimination of all exemptions except in cases of projects and    Feb. 15,1994    Implemented.
diplomatic privilege.
Replacement of system of rive VAr rates (0%, 7%. 15%, 20%    Feb. 15, 1994        Implemented.
& 30%) on non-petroleum products with system of three rates
)   (0%,1 0% & 20%).
Extension of VAT to transportation of'certain products (rice,    Feb. 15.1994     Implemented.
petroleum products, cement).
Replacement of three-rate petroleum product tarift'(0%, 25%  Feb. 15,1994        Implemented
& 45%) with two-rate tariff (25% & 35%); and replacement of
four-rate VAT system (0%. 7%. 20% & 34%) by a single rate
(20%).
V.    PRICING MEASURES
Increases in producer prices (cotton, 30%°o; groundnuts, 43%;    Jan. 18, 1994   Implemented.
rice, 6%).
Increases in consumer prices (rice, 33%; flour. 30%; vegetable  Jan. 22, 1994    Implemented.
oil, 23%; groundnut oil, 24%; sugar. 30%; utility services, 22-
30%).
Increases in petroleum product prices (20-30%).            Jan. 22, 1994         Implemented.



VI.   REFORMS IN PARASTATAL SECTOR
Completion of: SENELEC financial audlit: and study on       June 30. 1994          Partial implementation. The SENELEC audit %%as
strategies I-or restructuring of SoNEES.                                           completed in 1995. The SoNEES institutionial study
%%as completed by Junc 30. 1994, and its
recomm11enidations acted upon: agreceniel1t has been
reached on the Third Water SuppIl Project; the
propert) holding corporationi is already in operation:
and the maniagement corporation began operations in
FebruarN 1996
Finalizationi of the strategy for SONACOS privatization,    End 1994               Not achie'.d. althotigh the process is now well under
way, calls for tenders having been issued in November
1995.
Restructuring of CPSP in order to reduce its overheads.     End 1994              Not implemented. In the end, this restructuring
became a component of the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program. Draft legislation on the
dismanitlinig ofCPSP was debated in the National
Assembly in Deceiliber 1995.
VI]. PROMOTION OF PRIVATE SECTOR
Identilicationi of major regulatory obstacles hindering     March 31. 1994         Implemiienited. This became the proceedings ofla
competitioni and blocking increased production (monopolies,                        seminiar in which the participants were thIe DiscIssion
regulatory instruments).                                                           Ciroup on Competitiveness and (Growtlh and
representatives of the private and (iovernment sectors.



Vill.  SOCIALSULPPORT MEASULRES
Budget appropriation o' Cl'AF 15 billion for establishlimicnt ol'   1994                 Implemented partially. Fxpcnditures associated with
social safcty net arrangements. incluiding temporary                                     the social safct) net totaled CFAI: 14.6 hillion.
subsidi/ationl of consuimer prices (rice, CFAF 8 billion: whcat,                         distributed as iollows: rice. CFAF 8 billion: wvheat,
('AI'  hillion basic phiarnmaccutical products. CFAI: 2                                  Cl:A  1.8 hillion: health. CFAI: 2.1 billion; anid
billion: schoollig costS. CT'AI' 2 billion -with a vie%% to                             education. ('AF 2 billion.
increasinig the enirol[lmenilt rate), anid iifianicing ot'activities
implemlntied   a i; thc social serv ices dik ision o' AGETIIP.
Accelerationi ol thc schiool construction program and inclusion    1994                  Not implemelted.
of 'an1 additionial 30(t primiiary-school classrooms. Recruitenilt
anid traininiig of the necessary personiniel.



PART III: BORROWER EVALUATION






Republic of Senegal
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY,
FINANCE AND PLANNING
Economic Policy Programs
Monitoring Committee
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT NO. 2582-1-SE)
April 1996






INTRODUCTION
The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 was accompanied by the
launching of a comprehensive adjustment program whose main objectives were to:
(i)  achieve an annual economic growth rate of the order of 5% from 1995
onward,
(ii) raise the investment/GDP ratio,
(iii)  achieve a primary government budget surplus. beginning in 1997;
(iv)  improve and strengthen the external competitiveness of the Senegalese
economy through structural and regulatory reforms;
(v)  reduce the inflation rate to its pre-devaluation level following the sharp rise
that accompanied monetary realignment;
(vi)  step up poxerty alleviation and human resources development efforts.
In support of this comprehensive adjustment program of the Government.
the World Bank granted Senegal an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) in the amount of
SDR 18.2 million on IDA conditions. In this way, Senegal was able to mobilize resources
of CFAF 16.3 billion between March 30, 1994 and January 25. 1995.
I.    ECONOMIC POLICY OBJECTIVES AND MEASURES
The essential purposes of the ERC were of two kinds:
(i) to minimize the negative social impact of the devaluation in the short term;
(ii) to provide the Government with the necessary financial assistance during
the transition period of preparation of the change in parity follow-up
measures.
The economic policy measures to be applied under the ERC for 1994
concerned prices, social aspects of adjustment, public finances, monetary policy and
structural reforms.
1.1   Price Policy
Concerning prices, the Government continued its liberalization policy and
undertook not to institute any new price control or approval system.
- 19-



Oil product prices were revised to reflect world price trends and levels
following devaluation, taking into account also the overhaul of the fiscal and parafiscal
duties to which they continue to be liable. These measures enabled the authorities to
contain the rise in oil prices within a range of 20-30%.
Water, electricity and telecommunications prices were raised by 22-30% to
reflect the rise in costs.
In the agriculture sector, producer prices had risen 43% in the case of
groundnuts and 30% in that of cotton. The prices of staples such as sugar, wheat flour,
rice, and edible oils increased by between 23 and 33%. These relatively moderate price
increases were made possible by budget subsidies, tax receipts waivers by the
Government. and increased support by external partners. The cost of this price rise
containment policy is estimated at CFAF 45.5 billion, of which 70% was borne by the
Government, 22% by the external donors, and 8% by private enterprise.
With the aim of diminishing the social costs of devaluation, the
Government, with the support of the donors, set up a social safety net, in the amount of
CFAF 15 billion, designed to limit the rise in the prices of staples and pharmaceutical
products and sustain education expenditures.
This package of measures succeeded in holding induced inflation to 32.1%,
i.e., below the target of 39%.
For 1995, other price liberalization measures were taken. They relate to the
prices of rice, sugar, wheat flour, tomato concentrate, cement, imported or local edible
oils, and fresh tomatoes. The average rate of change in the general price index fell from
32.1% in 1994 to 6% in 1995.
1.2    Budget and Fiscal Policy
With respect to public finances, the authorities' action was characterized by
overhaul of the tax system and the pursuit of a stringent expenditure policy without
neglecting the "priority" sectors (education, health and community services).
The devaluation on the one hand and the entry into force of UEMOA on the
other called for appropriate adaptation of the tax system.
This reform had four objectives:
(i) to simplify the tax system and its application;
(ii) to lower duties across the board;
(iii) to widen the tax base;
- 20 -



(iv) to provide production with reasonable effective protection through tariff
measures.
The simplification of the tax system included a reduction in the number of
product categories from seven to four:
-     goods belonging to the social domain;
-     capital goods and intermediate products for industry;
-     manufactured goods that compete with domestic products;
all products not falling in the above three categories, including luxury
products, which are liable to a surcharge of 20%.
This product classification revision was accompanied by revision of the
import duty rates grid. The number of rates was reduced from four to three, with abolition
of the 50% special duty. Those remaining in effect are the lower rate (10%), the regular
rate (20%) and the higher rate (30%). The two customs stamp rates in force prior to the
reform (12% and 6%) were replaced by a single rate of 5%.
In line with the Government's strategy decisions, a system of overall
preferential taxation is now applied to capital goods imports, while exports are no longer
taxed.
In order to promote competition, the Government has abandoned two
instruments of protection and mobilization of incremental receipts: the minimum liability
and market value systems.
Domestic taxation has also been overhauled. The number of VAT rates
was reduced from five to two by eliminating the intermediate rate (15%), the higher rate
(30%) and the special ra.c (84%). Only the regular rate (20%) and the lower rate (10%)
have been retained.
The special duties on cola, tobacco, and alcohol products were set at 30%,
while that on cement (2.5%) was abolished.
To replace the nontariff protection measures, the taxation differential
between raw materials used by domestic industries and imported products that compete
with those of the vulnerable branches was raised from 20 to 30 points.
On the expenditure side, despite the relatively high devaluation rate and
expected inflation rate, overall expenditure grew by 28.6% in 1994, equivalent to less than
15% after taking into account public debt interest payments. In the priority sectors,
- 21 -



however, expenditure allocations increased by 18.7% in the case of education, 30.3% in
health and 21.7% in community and social services.
Other specific measures were taken, addressed to the Government's
financial operations:
-     Containment of civil service staff at 67,100. This goal was achieved: at
December 31. 1994 staff totaled only 66,696. A stringent recruitment
policy enabled the authorities to hold staffing below the program limit.
-     Settlement of outstanding external arrears (CFAF 45.5 billion) and
domestic arrears (CFAF 14.9 billion) in 1995.
-     An increase in investment expenditure to CFAF 112 billion in 1994.
Owing to financial constraints, this reached only CFAF 100 billion, with
priority going to the productive and social sectors.
-     Adoption of a Three-Year Public Investment program (PTIP) in August
1994.
1.3   Monetary and Credit Policy
Senegal's monetary policy, like that of the other member countries of the
UEMOA, was one of stringency in view of the need to combat inflation. The measures
necessitated by the devaluation also coincided with the entry into effect of the new
monetary management system adopted in October 1993. This system has the advantage
that it favors market rules over administrative regulation.
In view of the favorable outlook in the anti-inflation effort, beginning in
1994, the discount rate was reduced from the 14.5% set in January to 9% in December of
that year.
Overall, Senegal's negative net external position improved by CFAF 50
billion in 1994, against a deterioration of CFAF 31 billion in 1993.
There was an improvement also in the liquidity of the banking system,
which was able to acquire Governnent-issued securities in the amount of CFAF 18.3
billion while reducing its recourse to central Bank refinancing.
Restructuring of the National Agricultural Bank (Caisse Nationale de
Credit Agricole du Sjnegal--CNCAS) took place. The Government took over CNCAS's
doubtful debts, amounting to CFAF 8.2 billion, comprising CFAF 3.6 billion in loans to
small farmers and CFAF 4.6 billion in credit to the defunct Fund for Price Equalization
and Stabilization (Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix--CPSP). The result
was to clean up CNCAS's balance sheet and strengthen its equity position.
- 22 -



1.4   Structural Policies
The structural reforms instituted in support of the devaluation were
designed to promote the development of private enterprise. They comprised two specific
programs: the Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Project (Projet
d'Ajustement Structurel et de Compjtitivite--PASCO) and the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel pour l'Agriculture--PASA).
PASA implements the objectives of the Agricultural Development Policy
Statement (ADPS), which fall into four categories:
-     to strengthen agricultural research;
-     to develop an appropriate incentives system in order to promote private
investment;
-     to implement the Master Plan for Integrated Development of the Left Bank
of the Senegal River (Plan Directeur de Developpement Integre de la Rive
Gauche (PDRG) du Fleuve Senegal);
-     to diversify agricultural production with a view to export development.
PASCO, whose purpose is to foster healthy competition among enterprises,
is concerned with the liberalization and promotion of domestic and external trade.
With the aim of progressively placing all enterprises on an equal footing, so
far as possible, in terms of competition, the Government has: (i) terminated a number of
special agreements and protocols; and (ii) revised those remaining in effect in order to
eliminate all protection through prior import authorization and progressively abolish the
tax and other advantages deriving from these agreements and protocols.
Enterprises that still need it have, however, been given offered temporary
tariff protection phased out over three years. Only two enterprises (ICS and SODEFITEX)
continue to enjoy the benefits. The evolving enterprises in the tomato concentrate and
polypropylene bags subsectors receive temporary protection phased out over three years.
Freedom of operation has been extended to some 30 economic activities.
Only those with possible repercussions on public health and public safety continue to
require prior authorization.
In the area of investment promotion, laws have been enacted which: (i)
reduce company formation costs; (ii) permit revaluation of company balance sheets; and
(iii) allow the Governrment to sell lands for industrial and commercial use to enterprises.
- 23 -



The free trade zones and points and the customs conditional relief systems have been (or
will be) reviewed with the aim of rationalizing investment incentive policies.
With the object of strengthening the competitiveness of private enterprises,
the labor market has been made more flexible through two measures: abolition of the
monopoly of the Port Labor Office (Burealu de li .M1ain d'Oeuvre Portuaire--BMOP), and
authorization of enterprises to adapt their workforces to their business volume.  In
addition, measures designed to reduce sea freight and technical production factor costs
have been taken (restructuring of the water company, SONEES) or are under way (the
electric power company, SENELEC).
In the case of water, institutional reforms have been implemented.
SONEES has been broken up into three entities: (i) an assets management company, which
manages infrastructure plant (SONES); (ii) a management and operations company,
Senegalese Water (Senegalaise des Eaux), and (iii) a National Sanitation Office (Office
National d Assainissement--OVA).
In the energy sector, SENELEC has been authorized to procure fuel oil on
the international market, and a study was started in March 1995 on restructuring of the
company and reduction of its costs.
As part of general parapublic sector reform, the Fund for Price Equalization
and Stabilization (CPSP) has been restructured; the final phase, i.e., its liquidation, was
started on March 1 last.
The Private Sector Capacity Building Project (Projet de Renforcement des
Capacites du Secteur Prive') is designed to improve the legal and regulatory framework for
private enterprise development and to strengthen local expertise in the private enterprise
field.
The instruments of this policy are the Private Sector Foundation (Fondation
du Secteur Prive--FSP), the Competitiveness Review Group (Groupe de REflexion sur la
Competitivite et la Croissance--GRCC) and the Legal Reform Committee (Comite de
Reforme Juridique--CRJ).
The purpose of the FSP is to develop in-house expertise. The CRJ's task is
to prepare reforms designed to: (;) provide private enterprise with a secure basis in its
relations with the public authorities; (ii) set up a commercial register; (iii) reform the law
and the legal professions with respect to enterprises in difficulty; (iv) support the national
commission responsible fb. harmonizing and codifying civil law; (v) support the setting up
of an arbitration center; (vi) create a new legislative framework for microenterprises; and
(vii) promote the law. The GRCC represents a new experiment, furnishing a framework
for consultation and agreement between the Government and the private sector concerning
economic conduct arid reform.
- 24 -



The implementation of these various measures made it possible to achieve
the basic objectives of the Economic Recovery Support Project.
The design and implementation of a price policy reconciling true cost
pricing with cushioning of the social costs of devaluation, of an appropriate budget and tax
policy, and of a sound monetary policy, together with a policy of appropriate structural
reforms, allowed the authorities to hold the inflation rate below the targets for both 1994
(32.1%, against a target of 39%) and 1995 (6%. against 8%). The funds mobilized under
the social safety net, amounting to CFAF 14.6 billion in 1994 and CFAF 14 billion in
1995, also helped to cushion the adverse effects of devaluation on the daily life of the
people. These funds made it possible to limit the rise in the prices of the major staples
(rice and wheat flour) and pharnaceutical products and provide support for education.
Overall, the Government has financed price increase containment at a cost
of CFAF 32.0 billion. The donors contributed CFAF 10 billion and private enterprise
CFAF 3.5 billion.
The second major objective of the Economic Recovery Credit, to provide
the Government with financial assistance enabling it to manage the transition period, was
also achieved. The stresses inherent in the devaluation operation were held in check,
allowing the participants in the socioeconomic process to join together in preparing the
necessary structural reforms for recovery of the economy (PASCO, PASA).
II.   MAJOR  FACTORS  IN  SMOOTH  IMPLEMENTATION  OF  THE
PROJECT
-     Favorable environment; disruption due to the devaluation.
-     Good project preparation, thanks to the joint (Government/World Bank)
mission.
-     Soundly-targeted conditionalities.
-     Rapid and regular disbursement.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
The project was designed to provide needed support for the January 1994
devaluation of the CFA franc. It accordingly formed a natural and integral part of the
process of formulating and implementing policies designed to reap the maximum
advantage from the change in parity.
- 25 -



Project design was also assisted by the experience gained in designing the
structural adjustment and sectoral programs set up prior to the devaluation.
As a result, a consensus was rapidly obtained on the short-, medium-, and
long-term macroeconomic and sectoral policies to be implemented in the post-devaluation
environment.
The fact that the basic decision had already been taken facilitated
negotiation of the conditionalities to be applied in monitoring project execution.
IV. WORLD BANK AND SENEGALESE GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE
The World Bank acted with diligence and efficiency in project preparation
and appraisal. The scheduled disbursements were made on time.
The Government complied fully with the spirit of the measures. Even
more, it placed special emphasis on the sustainability of the activities implemented. The
macroeconomic and sectoral objectives and policies were accordingly reaffirmed in the
Economic and Financial Policy Framework Paper adopted in 1994 and updated in 1995
and in the sectoral policy letters relating to the projects negotiated with the Bank in 1994
and 1995.
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION LESSONS
The existence of a large number of conditionalities does not in itself suffice
to guarantee the success of a project.
A joint approach to and perception of both problems and objectives is a key
factor.
The main new feature in the project identification and implementation
processes is the priority given to early execution of the basic project measures and
disbursement of the accompanying budgetary assistance.
This procedure prevailed to some degree in the implementation of PASCO
and PASA, with strengthening and prior execution of the measures prescribed as criteria
for disbursement of the initial tranches of the associated budgetary assistance.
All of the activities adopted as performance criteria are fully in line with the
main objectives of the projects negotiated in 1994 and 1995.
This approach offers certain advantages, including in particular better
control of the critical interval between identification of the project and implementation of
- 26 -



the most decisive measures. On the other hand, it shifts the burden of immediate
underpinning of the macroeconomic and social stability necessary to its implementation to
the other donors.
- 27 -






SATICALANNEX






Table I
SENEGAL: MAJOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL INDICATORS
Estimates        Projections
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995          1996
Economic Indicators
(% annual change unless otherwise indicated)
Real GDP                                       4.5      1.2     2.9    -2.1      2.0     4.5          4.5
Real per cap. consumption                      0.3    -2.5      1.4      0.2    -5.0    -2.0          0.0
G&NFS exports                                 -1.2      2.4     5.3    -4.0   112.0       7.0         8.0
G&NFS imports                                 -2.0      0.4    10.3     - 1.0    85.0    6.0          5.0
Ext. current account., excl. grants (% of GDP)  -8.1    -8.9    -9.6   -10.2    -9.2    -7.8         -6.5
Consumer Price Index                           0.3    -1.8      0.0    -0.6    32.1      6.0          2.7
National Accounts
GDP at constant prices (CFAF billion) (1)    1511.8  1529.9  1552.4  1497.2  1526.7  1594.7        1666.3
GDP at current prices (CFAF billion)         1589.5  1629.0  1661.4  1586.6  2155.1  2426.6        2603.7
Gross Domestic Investment (% of GDP)           13.3    13.7    13.4    13.8    14.7    15.0          15.5
Private investment/GDP (%)                      8.6     9.0     9.3      9.0    10.0    10.0         11.0
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP (%)                  8.6     8.8     7.2      6.2     8.3    11.0         12.8
External Debt
Outstanding debt (US$ million) (2)          3737.0  3522.0  3529.0  3543.0  3456.0  3480.0         3520.0
Debt service (US$ million)                   422.0   312.0   199.0   300.0   300.0   300.0          300.0
Outstanding debt/GDP (%)                      66.4    63.1    60.0    62.5    80.2    71.7           67.6
Debt service/G&S exports + private transfers(%)    30.8    25.3    22.3    22.7    19.4    18.1      17.0
Fiscal Indicators
Central government receipts, incl. grants     20.8    20.1    18.9    17.0    18.0    18.1           16.8
Central government expenditure                 18.8    19.9    21.3    20.0    20.0    18.3          17.5
Current expenditure                            14.8    14.3    17.0    16.0    15.0    13.0          13.0
Capital expenditure                            2.8      4.4     5.0      4.0     5.0      5.0         5.0
Population Growth                              3.0      3.1     2.9      2.9     2.9     2.9          2.9
Source: DPS, DDI, 1996-98 Economic and Financial Program.
(I)    At 1987 prices.
(2)    Direct government debt and government-guaranteed debt, including IMF credits and Central Bank commitments.
- 31 -



Table 2
St'NEGAL: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(CFAF billion)
1991   1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Trade Balance                                -87.8  -96.5  -107.5  -129.3  -127.0  -127.6
Exports, f.o.b.                             226.5  219.0   200.2   440.7   484.1   514.9
Imports, f.o.b.                             314.3  315.4   307.7   570.0   611.1   642.5
Services (net)                               -61.7  -57.2   -61.5   -81.3   -78.2   -70.1
Credit                                      164.3  163.1   149.0   316.3   335.2   353.3
Debit                                       226.1  220.2   210.5   397.6   413.4   423.4
Non-Counterpart Transfers (net)               93.1   95.8    89.9   213.4   203.9   163.4
Private (net)                                 3.8    6.9    10.3    29.0    28.4    27.5
Public (net)                                 89.3   88.9    79.6   184.4   175.5   135.9
Current Account Balance                      -56.4  -57.9   -79.1      2.8    -1.3   -34.3
Capital Account Balance                       21.2   32.4      0.9    70.6    33.0    48.9
Public capital (net)                         26.3   45.3    19.0    35.0    40.8    23.3
Private capital (net)                        -5.1  -12.9   -18.1    35.6    -7.8    25.6
Change in Arrears                              5.5   32.2    37.3  -128.7   -45.5
Net Errors and Omissions                       1.1   -4.4      3.6
Overall Balance Before Rescheduling          -28.6    2.3   -37.3   -55.3   -13.8    14.6
Debt Rescheduling + Exceptional Financing     42.9   12.5      8.1   188.9    72.0    21.8
Overall Balance After Rescheduling Financing  14.3   14.8   -29.2   133.6    58.2    36.4
BCEAO (net)                                  -14.3  -14.8    29.2  -133.6   -58.2   -36.4
Net Operating Account and IMF                 -9.8   -3.2    31.8   133.6    58.2   -37.4
Resources Utilization                         -4.5  -11.6    -2.6      0.0     0.1     1.0
Sources: DPS, 1996-98 Economic and Financial Program.
Note: For 1994 and 1995, net errors and omissions included in net private capital.
- 32 -



Table 3
SENEGAL: GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
(CFAF billion)
1993    1994   1995   1996
Total Receipts + Grants                               272.6   385.6  439.7  437.5
Of which:
Fiscal receipts                                       220.2   267.8  330.4  364.4
Grants                                                 16.7    84.1   73.5   35.0
Total Expenditures                                    319.8   424.8  444.4  454.5
Current expenditures                                  249.5   318.6  316.3  326.9
Capital expenditures                                   64.9   100.2  117.7  127.6
Overall Balance (commitments basis)                   -47.2   -39.2   -4.7  -17.0
Adjustments, cash basis                                44.4  -160.8  -60.4    0.0
Of which, change in arrears                            49.3  -160.8  -60.4      --
Overall Balance (cash basis)                           -2.8  -200.0  -65.1  -17.0
Financing                                               2.8   200.0   65.1   17.0
External Financing                                      8.6   186.7   83.6   25.9
Drawdown                                               40.1    80.9   81.7   66.0
Amortization                                          -41.4   -83.1  -70.1   68.5
Debt rescheduling + moratorium+ cancellations + deferrals  9.9   188.9   72.0   21.8
Domestic Financing                                     -5.8    13.1  -17.2  -18.9
Banking system                                        -23.9     1.0  -14.1   -8.8
Other                                                  18.1    12.1   -3.1  -10.1
Net Errors and Omissions                                0.0     0.2    1.3    0.0
Memo: Current Operations Balance                        2.7    31.1   83.0   80.6
Sources: DPS, 1996-98 Economic and F;nancial Program.
- 33 -






MAP SECTION






Former r  -  \-                              1 ~~~~~~~~~~~I6'               1 5                            I 4-                           1 3                            1 2
Spsnl5h;  rX     ~ALGERIA
b2Lj           F>K    ALGERIA                                                                M    A   U   R  I T  A   N   I A
MAJRrINIA  "       ~j..Pdor,.SENEGAL
0      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
Du,> ,,               M A '         |                             ~      ORdD9agna RHae0                                                                           (3     REGION CAPITALS
THIse    \,:t \_----.         t'  NIGER                                          Toil                              Lao                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
G      '                     j   UNA'                                                                                                                                        REGION BOUNDARIES
.5u E\9  ,s       g        N  °             (                                                                         G           y-    -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2   '   '8~~OlrvIREv  1t         Saint-4                                                                           Galoyao                                                                               16'-
Louis    MpolO                                                                          ThIo,gneo0
Ndi&6b6eO 
Gondiol                                                        Lagbar
LougOa   lNioma,e                oMbeuleukh6                                               Matomo0 
Sogui
0 Kebemer                   ODora       0 Lingure                  RanerouO                                                                     /
Me1,Sge          Dorou
IS'                                              0PirGourey         Moustl                           V6Iingora
Tivaouaneo                oNdindi                             oTicM                                  Fet BoeO0                             B. k'
Pikine                                               O Thies  OTouba   0ossone
0     0 Sebikhoutone         oBambey           0Mb6ke
DAKAR*   Rufiqu                                (E Diourbel   O Koloban,e 
OMbar                                   Pay/r Kidiro
Mbou,0                                                       00o~n                                       Tosdare                                    Kidro
Fatick(3             oGuinguineo            LNdio66ne sleBafol                                                           oGoudiri ,
Joal-fodiouto              Kaolocke                                                                                                                                                      1 'rse
Sokone        Ndo~~Kafaine             Konlel            Koumpentoum                       Kotiari                                                              41
4                                                       K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Noahrne  Koungheulo   0Kupclu                        Nooude 
Sakoneo            0    N0Koussonar                                                             °                                                         MALI
Nioro du Ri  '>i 
0                              'oMka                               Tambocounda                            oDalfi    (
BANJUL         ~~~THE                                                                      I0Goinon
GAMBIA nN  )
-I- - - - ------                           Velingarao    Med naOKhossonto
13'                                         ,.........../.J                                                                        Gounasarao    M6dnc   0Sim6nti                                          OMissiraRn   3'
DioulOUGlous KId
Kod                                                                              0Mako               0Saraya   L
Bignonao        OMarsossoum
Sedh'ouo         ._. - -          _                - -   - -  - -      --   -                           K6d..gouo            NoiadiiO 0
Ziguinchor®)              S ,                                                               '%    _  rd_                                                        
GUINEA - BISSAU                                                                          GUINE                                    (
D  12                                 -0                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominofao-s and any other -nfor,moton  I?
c ___O___________1___________*                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, cns the part of The World BoriE C. c,i
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                            any judgment on the legal status of -ny territory or n.y -r,dor'scmenI 
1?'                            16                             15                              4        .         or cceptrce of such boundories            12-
'-i. I.1 6' _                            _14 









1MAG3ING
Report No:      15874
Type: ICR



