Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2582 SE
                                                              (Amendment)
                            Agreement Amending
                       Development Credit Agreement
                        (Economic Recovery Credit)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated December 27, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2582 SE
                                                              (Amendment)
                            AGREEMENT AMENDING
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 27, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Economic Recovery Credit),
dated March 18, 1994, (the Development Credit Agreement) for
the purpose of assisting in the financing of the program
referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement (the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development
Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent
to two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,300,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance
to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       Amendments of the Development
                             Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by deleting the "and" at the end of
subsection (b), substituting "; and" for "." at the end of
subsection (c), and adding a new subsection (d) as follows:
            "(d) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement
      Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Economic
      Recovery Credit) between the Borrower and the Association,
      dated December 27, 1994."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
      Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
      referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount
      in various currencies equivalent to twenty million five
      hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,500,000)
      (the Credit), which includes an original amount in various
      currencies equivalent to eighteen million two hundred
      thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,200,000) (the
      Initial Financing), and an additional amount in various
      currencies equivalent to two million three hundred
      thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000) (the
      Additional Financing)."
      Section 1.03. An additional proviso is added at the end of
Section 2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as
follows:
                ";provided, however, that any commitment charge on
          the Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty
          days after the date of the Amending Agreement."
          Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added at the
end of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
                "4.  After a date twelve months from the date of
          this Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made
          and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts
          to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
          expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
          Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the
          Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
          unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing from the
          Credit Account or any part thereof."
                                ARTICLE II
                        Effective Date; Termination
          Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall
have been furnished to the Association that the execution and
delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action.
          Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there
shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
Page  3
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
          Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the date upon which the Association
dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
          Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have
come into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and
all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate,
unless the Association establishes a later date for the
purposes of this Section. If this Amending Agreement shall
terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if
this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the
day and year first above written.
                      REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                      By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
                                                Authorized Representative
                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
