CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1135 GR
Guarantee Agreement
(Fifth NIAID Project)
BETWEEN
THE HELLENIC STATE
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1135 GR
Guarantee Agreement
(Fifth NIBID Project)
BETWEEN
THE HELLENIC STATE
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1975, between THE HELLENIC STATE
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and National Investment Bank for Industrial Development S.A. (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE H
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of the obligations of the Borrower under Section 8.01 of the General Conditions,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of
a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Guarantor (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Guarantor to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank,
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan and in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect. The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date; or (iii) any lien on commercial goods to secure
a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred and to be paid out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial goods;
or (iv) any lien upon real estate or other property in Greece or revenues or receipts
in the currency of the Guarantor, if such lien is given by a political subdivision
or by an agency of a political subdivision of the Guarantor under arrangements
or circumstances which would not result in priority in the allocation or realization
of foreign exchange.


﻿5
(d)   As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" includes assets
of the Guarantor or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of the
Guarantor or of any agency of any such political subdivision or of the Bank of
Greece or of any other institution performing the functions of a central bank.
(e)   If the Guarantor, because of constitutional or other legal provisions,
shall be unable to make the foregoing effective with respect to any lien on any
assets of a political subdivision or agency of a political subdivision, the Guarantor,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall give to the Bank an equivalent
lien or equivalent priority in the allocation or realization of foreign exchange, as
the case may be, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take, or cause or
permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of
any such political subdivisions to take, any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan
Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or
appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform such obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
The Ministry of Finance
Athens, Greece
With copies to:
The Ministry of Planning and
Governmental Policy
Athens, Greece


﻿6
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
THE HELLENIC STATE
By /s/ Menelas D. Alexandrakis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


