Report No. PIC1777
Project Name              Moldova-Pre-export Guarantee Facility
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Multi Sector
Project ID                MDPA38641
Borrower                  Government of Moldova
Implementing Agency       Guarantee Administration Unit
Piata Marii Adunari Nationale 1
277033 Chisinau, Moldova
Mr. Andrei Cheptine, Interim Manager
tel (3732) 23 27 80
fax (3732) 23 40 46
Date PID Prepared         March 21, 1995
Appraisal Date            November 26, 1994
Board Date                March 9, 1995
Country and Sector Background
I.   The Government of Moldova is undertaking a stabilization program
supported by the IMF and a structural reform program with World Bank
assistance. The Government's primary objective is to restore
production, employment, and exports. A key impediment to that goal is
the shortage of working capital inputs. This facility is designed to
help the private sector finance the provision of working capital inputs
for pre-export transactions so that commercially viable agricultural and
industrial enterprises can restore production, improve product quality,
and exploit new marketing opportunities in both the FSU and in non-
traditional markets.
II. As a result of tight domestic credit policy and a capital base that
has been severely eroded by inflation, the Moldovan banking system
cannot provide a sufficient volume of loans to support sound,
commercially viable working capital transactions, and foreign banks will
not confirm letters of credit opened by local banks on behalf of their
Moldovan clients. In addition, most export credit agencies (ECAs)
currently do not cover transactions in Moldova, making even short-term,
ECA-guaranteed commercial banking flows highly unlikely in the immediate
future. Consequently, even potentially viable Moldovan agricultural and
industrial enterprises with good export prospects are having difficulty
obtaining working capital.
III. In addition to these financial bottlenecks, the perceived
government performance risk inherent in doing business in Moldova
inhibits foreign input suppliers from providing working capital inputs
directly to local enterprises. In previous business dealings in other
republics of the former Soviet Union, unfortunately, on several
occasions governments revoked export licenses or imposed other
retroactive changes in rules and regulations that prevented input
suppliers from being paid for the inputs which they had already
delivered to the local enterprises. Although trading companies and



input suppliers have not had similar experiences in Moldova, the
perceived government performance risk of doing business in a republic of
the former Soviet Union has severely limited the flow of working capital
to Moldovan enterprises.
IV. Another factor inhibiting the flow of commercially viable pre-
export transactions is the general perception of war and civil
disturbance risk (political force majeure) in countries of the region.
While this perception applies to Moldova as well, government policies
have maintained peace and stability for nearly two years.     This policy
is a cornerstone of the Government's program, because it realizes that
without it, prospects for economic recovery would be dim.
Objectives
V.   The Pre-export Guarantee Facility (PGF) is designed to attract
foreign private finance for pre-export transactions in a manner that
will allow the market to select the most viable activities and bear the
full commercial risk of each transaction. The facility would help (i)
Moldovan industrial and agricultural enterprises establish links with
private financial institutions, trading companies and input suppliers
who finance commercially viable, self-liquidating pre-export
transactions, thereby contributing to the emergence of private input
supply and output marketing channels and ensuring that the Government
does not bear any of the commercial risks associated with these
transactions; (ii) restore employment and production in the short term
while longer term structural reforms take hold; and (iii) promote a
transparent business climate characterized by the rule of law.
Description
VI. The operation consists of the establishment by the Government of a
Guarantee Administration Unit (GAU) and a standby loan facility from the
World Bank. The GAU sells guarantees specified in a Framework Guarantee
Contract (FGC) against government performance and political force
majeure risks. These guarantees are sold on a first come, first served
basis to input suppliers, trading companies, or financial institutions
that finance the provision of inputs to local Moldovan enterprises for
the production of exports. Through an agent bank hired by the GAU, a
standby World Bank loan facility backstops the Government's claims
payment obligations on up to $30 million of GAU guarantees outstanding
at any given time.
Financing
VII. Disbursements would occur only if the Government draws on the
facility to pay claims to guarantee holders who purchased coverage from
the GAU. The facility will be deemed to have been a success if GAU
guarantees result in a large volume of pre-export transactions and
little or no claims payments occur. Technical Assistance to the GAU for
the first year of its operations would be financed by a grant of the
Government of the Netherlands. Beyond that, the GAU will finance its
operating costs from fee income.
Implementation
-2-



VIII.     A typical pre-export transaction eligible for support under
the facility would have the following characteristics: (a) Basic
Structure: a foreign (i) trading company, (ii) input supply company, or
(iii) commercial bank would provide financing for working capital inputs
required for the production of exports by a local enterprise; (b)
Eligible Local Enterprises: all corporatized enterprises would be
eligible, provided that the foreign financier of the transaction would
be prepared to bear the performance risk of doing business with that
enterprise; (c) Tenor: to (i) match the production cycle and (ii) would
range from short to medium term (with a maximum of three years) and (d)
Marketing Arrangements: although many input suppliers and trading
companies would attempt to market the output outside the former Soviet
Union (FSU), some expressed interest in marketing the output in FSU
Republics. Thus, in addition to financing the provision of much needed
working capital, these transactions would also help Moldovan enterprises
restore traditional trading links that were ruptured by the break-up of
the FSU.
IX.       Risk Coverage.   The guarantee sold by the GAU would compensate
guarantee holders for losses that occur as a direct result of the
following risks, occurring after the effective date of the guarantee:
Inconvertibility or Inability to Transfer. This would include
coverage for losses arising from the introduction by the
Government of any restrictions on the conversion of local
currency into foreign exchange or the transfer of foreign
exchange out of Moldova. This coverage would also include
protection against the Government's failure to permit the
conversion of local currency into foreign exchange at the
market rate of exchange. However, this coverage would not
grant the guarantee holder the right to convert local currency
into foreign exchange at a guaranteed future exchange rate.
Cancellation of Licenses and Restrictions on Import and
Export. This would include coverage for losses arising from
the cancellation or non-renewal of an import or export license
by the Government of Moldova or the imposition by the
Government of Moldova of restrictions on the import into
Moldova of working capital inputs or the export from Moldova
of outputs which were not previously subject to restriction.
Imposition or Increase of Import or Export Taxes. This would
include losses arising from the imposition by the Government
of Moldova of any new or increased tax, levy or duty relating
to the import of inputs or the export of outputs.
Seizure of Goods or Prevention of Sale. This would include
losses arising from the taking and holding of inputs or
outputs by the Government of Moldova without just, prompt and
adequate compensation.
Political Force Majeure. This would include coverage against
losses arising from military action or civil disturbances in
Moldova. Other types of force majeure -- e.g., flood,
drought, other natural disasters, war in neighboring transit
- 3 -



countries, etc. -- would not be covered.
Diversion of Voyage. This would include coverage against
losses arising from an increase in transport or insurance
charges due to the diversion of the inputs to a different
destination if any of the other risks occur while the inputs
are in transit to Moldova.
Sustainability
X.   The World Bank loan facility would be available for backstopping
new guarantees for a period of five years, thereby potentially enabling
the GAU to support $150 million of pre-export transactions during this
period, assuming that the average tenor of each transaction is one year
and that the GAU's guarantee issuance capacity is fully utilized. As
Moldova develops a creditworthy reputation in the international pre-
export market and as ECA cover becomes more widely available, reliance
on the PGF may decline over time.(see 1/) Nevertheless, a five year
availability period would be provided so that the Government would have
sufficient time to establish a satisfactory track record of not
interfering with private pre-export transactions.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
XI.       This is the first facility of its kind.    Nevertheless, lessons
learned from prior financial intermediary and export development loans
point to the following requirements for successful policy performance:
(i) macro-economic stability, (ii) a liberal foreign exchange and trade
regime, (iii) a structure that can cater to a wide variety of
transactions and a broad range of financial providers, and (iv)
structures that do not require overly strict and formal security
arrangements.
Poverty Category
XII. Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
XIII.     The proposed facility has been classified in Environmental
Assessment Category C.    To ensure that no guarantee would be available
to support the importation of environmentally hazardous inputs, the GAU
will be provided with a list of products and transactions that do not
meet Bank or Moldovan environmental requirements. A negative list of
banned pesticides, derived from the WHO categories of "Extremely
Hazardous" and "Highly Hazardous" materials would also not be permitted
to be imported under the auspices of the PGF.(see 2/) The GAU will hire
a local environmental expert who will review and approve applications,
in consultation with the Bank when necessary.
Program Objective Categories
XIV. Economic Management.
Project Benefits
-4-



XV. The facility would help (i) Moldovan industrial and agricultural
enterprises establish links with private financial institutions, trading
companies and input suppliers who finance commercially viable, self-
liquidating pre-export transactions, thereby contributing to the
emergence of private input supply and output marketing channels; (ii)
restore employment and production in the short term while longer term
structural reforms take hold; and (iii) promote a transparent business
climate characterized by the rule of law.
Project Risks
XVI. The main risks are (i) the reversal of the stabilization and
structural reform programs which could lead to a large volume of claim
payments and a large debt repayment obligation for the Government. To
reduce this risk, the Bank will have the right to suspend the GAU's
authorization to issue new guarantees backed by the World Bank in the
event of major policy reversals. (ii) the risk mitigation provided by
the FGC does not generate increased private financing for commercially
viable pre-export transactions. This risk has been minimized by
designing the FGC on the basis of well-established market principles.
1/   A mid-term review will consider whether the GAU should be abolished
after 5 years or be transformed into a sustainable guarantee institution
that would issue guarantees without World Bank back-stop.
2/   World Health Organization, International Programme on Chemical
Safety. "The WHO Recommended Classification of Pesticides by Hazard and
Guidelines to Classification 1994-1995".   Geneva: WHO/PCS, 1978.
Task Manager:
Onno Rahl, EC4C2
(202) 458-9119 (tel)
(202) 477-3378 (fax)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



