Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3851 MD
                              Loan Agreement
                  (Pre-Export Guarantee Facility Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated April 19, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3851 MD
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
MOLDOVA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Guarantee
Administration Unit (the GAU) with the Borrower's assistance as
provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
the GAU (the Project Agreement);
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   At the end of Section 6.01, following the words
"Section 5.02" the words "or in respect of which a Guarantee
Contract (as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement) has
been issued and remains outstanding" are added.
      (c)   In Section 6.02:
            (i)   at the end of the first phrase which precedes
                  sub-paragraph (a), ending with the word
                  "Account", the words "with respect to any
                  amount of the Loan which has not been committed
                  under a Guarantee Contract (as such term is
                  defined in the Loan Agreement)" are added;
           (ii)   sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
                  paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is
                  added to read:
                        "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall
                  have arisen under which any further withdrawals
                  under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
                  provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
                  Bank's Articles of Agreement."; and
      (d)   In Section 6.03, the portion starting with the words
"(e) the Bank" up to the end of the Section is deleted and
replaced by the following:
                        "(e)  after the date five years after the
                  date of the Loan Agreement, any amount of the
                  Loan remaining unwithdrawn and which shall have
                  not been committed under a Guarantee Contract
                  (as such term is defined in the Loan
                  Agreement), the Bank may, by notice to the
                  Borrower and the GAU (as such term is defined
                  in the Loan Agreement), terminate the right of
                  the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect
                  to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,
                  such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Agency Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Agent Bank" means the agent bank of the GAU referred
to in Section 2.01 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement;
      (c)   "Charter" means the founding statutes, charter,
articles of incorporation and by-laws or other similar
instrument of the GAU registered by the GAU with the State
Registration Department at the Ministry of Justice of the
Borrower on February 9, 1995.
      (d)   "Eligible Risks" means the risks covered by each
Guarantee Contract, namely (i) inconvertibility or inability to
transfer, (ii) cancellation of licenses and restrictions on
import and export, (iii) imposition or increase of import or
export taxes, (iv) seizure of goods or prevention of sale, (v)
political force majeure (war and civil disturbance), and (vi)
Page  3
diversion of voyage, as each of these risks is defined in the
Framework Guarantee Contract;
      (e)   "Framework Guarantee Contract" means a model
guarantee contract approved by the Borrower and the Bank on
February 2, 1995, which contains all the terms and conditions
to be included in the Guarantee Contracts;
      (f)   "Guarantee Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Guarantee Administration Unit" or the "GAU" means
the state-owned company of the Borrower established and
operating pursuant to the Resolution of the Government of the
Republic of Moldova No. 502-d, dated December 19, 1994, as the
same may be amended from time to time, registered with the
State Registration Department at the Ministry of Justice of the
Borrower on February 9, 1995;
      (h)   "Guarantee Contract" means any of the contracts
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement;
      (i)   "Guarantee Holder" means foreign financier of Inputs
who was issued a Guarantee Contract by the GAU in accordance
with procedures set forth in paragraphs (a) through (e) of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
      (j)   "Inputs" means goods financed by a Guarantee Holder
and utilized by industrial and agricultural enterprises in the
territory of the Borrower for production of exports or for the
purpose of enhancing their production capacity;
      (k)   "Letter of Guarantee" means an irrevocable legal
instrument issued by the Agent Bank to each Guarantee Holder
upon issuance of the Guarantee Contract, which confirms the
obligation of the Agent Bank to make Payment to the Guarantee
Holder in the event of a Loss;
      (l)   "Loss" means the amount denominated in dollars,
payable to the Guarantee Holder upon occurrence of any of the
Eligible Risks in accordance with the terms and conditions of
the Guarantee Contract with such Guarantee Holder;
      (m)   "Operating Manual" means the manual which sets out
operating procedures of the GAU, approved by the GAU and the
Borrower on February 2, 1995;
      (n)   "Outputs" means goods produced by industrial or
agricultural enterprises in the territory of the Borrower for
export using the Inputs;
      (o)   "Payment" means any payment made to the Guarantee
Holder by the Agent Bank acting on behalf of the GAU on account
of a Loss; and
      (p)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3
(1986).
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of thirty million dollars
($30,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts to be disbursed by the Agent
Page  4
Bank on behalf of the GAU, under the Project, for Payments due
pursuant to Guarantee Contracts executed on or after the date
of this Loan Agreement provided, however, that no withdrawals
shall be made for Payments under Guarantee Contracts executed
after April 19, 2000.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, through the GAU, for the purposes
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a guarantee
deposit account in the Agent Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Guarantee Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      (b)   The Borrower shall pay to the Bank an additional
charge at the rate of one-fourth of one percent (1/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount of any Guarantee Contract entered into by
the GAU, such charge to accrue from the date of the issuance of
such Guarantee Contract to the date on which (i) the amount of
the Loan required to finance the Payment under such Guarantee
Contract shall be withdrawn by the Agent Bank on behalf of the
GAU from the Loan Account or shall be cancelled, or (ii) such
Guarantee Contract shall be terminated in accordance with its
terms.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
Page  5
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
      principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
      from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the
      Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
      Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
      in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan on November 1, 2005.
      (b)   Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, the Borrower shall
pay premium as specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement on
repayments, in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan then outstanding.
      Section 2.08. The general manager of the GAU, or any other
person designated by him/her for the purpose, is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                Objectives and Description of the Project;
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The objectives of the Project are to
assist the Borrower in attracting foreign private finance for
commercial pre-export transactions with industrial and
agricultural enterprises in the territories of the Borrower by
giving financial credibility to the Borrower's commitment not
to interfere with such transactions.
      (b)   The Project consists of the operation by the GAU of
a pre-export guarantee facility to sell guarantees against
Eligible Risks covered under the terms of the Guarantee
Contracts.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this
Agreement, shall cause the GAU to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
the GAU therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the GAU
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance by the GAU and with the fulfillment of the
Page  6
objectives of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its
part to ensure that the GAU shall exercise its rights and
comply with its obligations under the Agency Agreement and the
Guarantee Contracts in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and the GAU and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the GAU shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that the GAU will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (c)    any provision of the Agency Agreement, the Charter,
or the Framework Guarantee Contract shall have been assigned,
amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived without the
written consent of the Bank;
      (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the GAU or for the suspension of its
operations;
      (e)   the GAU shall have not complied with any of its
obligations under the Agency Agreement;
      (f)   the Agent Bank shall have not complied with any of
its obligations under the Agency Agreement;
      (g)   the Borrower shall have introduced a material
reversal of its trade and foreign exchange policies set out in
the letter of the Borrower dated November 11, 1994, furnished
to the Bank in connection with the Structural Adjustment Loan
(Loan No. 3815-MD); or
      (h)   the Agent Bank shall have made a Payment to a
Guarantee Holder on behalf of the GAU with the funds deposited
by the Bank into the Guarantee Account for that purpose.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a), (e), (f) or
(h) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
Page  7
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c),
(d) or (g) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Agency Agreement has been executed and delivered
on behalf of the GAU and the Agent Bank; and
      (b)   at least one guarantee officer and one administrative
officer, all with qualifications, experience and terms and
reference satisfactory to the Bank, have been appointed by the
GAU.
      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the GAU, and is legally binding upon the GAU in
accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the Agency Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the GAU and the Agent Bank, and is legally binding
upon the GAU and the Agent Bank in accordance with its terms;
and
      (c)   that the Guarantee Contracts, when executed and
delivered by the respective parties thereto based on the
Framework Guarantee Contract, will be legally valid and binding
upon the respective parties thereto in accordance with their
respective terms.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          277005 Chisinau
          Cosmonaut Street, 7
          Republic of Moldova
                                              Telex:
                                                (3732) 228610
    For the Bank:
Page  8
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                       197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                By                      /s/ Nicholay Tau
                                                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By                        /s/ Kermal Dervis
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                          Premiums of Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of the maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable
                                  to the Loan on the day of
                                  prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than two years                            0.20
    before maturity
More than two years but                            0.40
    not more than four
    years before maturity
More than four years but                            0.60
    not more than six
    years before maturity
Page  9
More than six years but                             0.80
    not more than eight
    years before maturity
More than eight years                               1.00
    before maturity
                                SCHEDULE 2
                             Guarantee Account
1.  Amounts deposited into the Guarantee Account shall be used
exclusively to make Payments for Losses in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
2.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Guarantee Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
amounts for deposit in the Guarantee Account shall be made as
follows:
          The Agent Bank, acting on behalf of the GAU, shall
          furnish to the Bank, no later than 14 days before any
          date on which the Agent Bank would be required to make
          a Payment on behalf of the GAU pursuant to a Guarantee
          Contract, a request for a deposit of an amount required
          for the making of such Payment. On the basis of such
          request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
          withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the
          Guarantee Account such amount as the Agent Bank shall
          have requested.
3.  For each Payment made by the Agent Bank, on behalf of the
GAU, out of the Guarantee Account, the Borrower shall cause the
GAU, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, to
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing
that such Payment was made exclusively on account of a Loss.
4.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
disbursement out of the Guarantee Account: (i) was made for
other than making a Payment; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such Payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Guarantee Account will not be
required to cover further Payments, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Guarantee Account.
    (d)   The Borrower shall refund to the Bank any amount
deposited in the Guarantee Account which shall have not been
disbursed within 30 days after the date of the corresponding
deposit, such refund to be made on the first working day
immediately subsequent to such 30-day period.
    (e)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 4 (a),
(b), (c) and (d) of this Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement shall
be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  10
