q.  q                                         r~~~~~~~~~~
Ii..T
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5a



PR112287/AC-385/13949/50
CURENC EQVET
US$1.00 - Pesos (P) 14.00
P1.00 -  US$ 0.07
REFULIC OF THE PHILPPIS
FISCAL TEMR
January 1 - December 31
ABVIAXIONS
3FAR  -  Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
BED   -  Bureau of Forest Development
RL    -  Buream of LaTds
CVI   -  Central Visays Regioml Project
IRP   -  Iategrated Reorgaizatio  Plan
MA    -  Mitry of   riculture
ME    -  Ministry of Budget
mm.   - Mlnistry of Natural Resources
NACID -  National Councll n Ite ted Aea Development
NEDA  - National Economic and Development Authority
NIA   -  National Irrigation Adainistration
RIO    - NEDA Regional Office
PEO   - Proviwial Englieer-s Office
hSEAR - RegLonal Office of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources
REFD - Regional Office of the Bureau of Forest Development
RDC   - Regional Development Council
RDlP  -  Regional Development Investment Program
RFORI - Regional Office of the Forestry Research Institute
ERxA   -  Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture
RPO   -  Regional Projects Office
s2I    -  Site  ngeent unit



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
*         Borrower      : Republic of the Philippines
Amount       : $25.6 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms        : The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description  : The proposed project is the first in the Philippines to
support a Regional Development investment Program. The
project aims, initially on a pilot scale, to improve the
incomes and living standards of some 14,600 participant
families, about 90,000 people, in five watersheds of Central
Visayas by offering them security of tenure over tneir land,
through an innovative land stewardship program, and associated
improved production systems in agro-forestry and nearshore
fisheries. At present, the production base of these families
is declining due to severe soil erosion and fishing habitat
degradation. The project would also reinforce the
Government's regionalization program as part of its evolving,
long-term decentralization policy. Project activities would
be carried out in watersheds in each of the four provinces of
the Region, comprising a total land area of 140,000 ha, a
coastlire of about 200 km, and would benefit directly about
half the population of some 200,000. The project would
finance programs of (a) watershed management in upland
agriculture; (b) social forestry; (c) nearshore fisheries; and
(d) infrastructure (mainly rural roads and trails to provide
access to the sites). Associated support services would
include strengthening the Regional Offices of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Natural Resources, training
and technical assistance, and applied agro-forestry research.
The preparation of additional regional projects would also be
supported. About 70Z of project costs apply directly to the
productive components of the project including infrastructure;
about 30% generate benefits region-wide, or in other regions
of the country.
Risks associated with the project are mainly institutional
in nature since the Government has not previously supported
such a systematic development effort in a single region.
It is recognized that the new system of decentralized budget
and administrative control could take time to consolidate
This document has a reswicd disrbution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance of
thei official dutie Its contents may not otherw ise be discoed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
under the evolving process of regionalization. The Region's
poor agricultural resource base requires that innovative
measures of soil conservation and upland farming be
introduced, so that there are also some technical risks.
While most of the technology proposed under the project has
been tested and proven effective in the Region, it remains
to be seen if existing "slash and burn" farmers can be
transformed into permanent settlers under .he land
stewardship program being introduced under the project and
maintain stable enterprises on small plots over time.
Land occupants at all sites have expressed strong interest
in participating in the project. The prospect of long-term
stewardship over their land is a powerful incentive to
join the programs. The settlers are also attracted by the
proposal to reward labor for conservation and rehabilita-
tion works with payments in-kind, and by the opportunity
to be introduced to, and advised on, new production
technologies. The project provides adequate management
resources and support services to achieve its objectives.
Estimated Cost:                              Local      Foreign       Total
s a( million)
Watershed management          11.7         8.7        20.4
Support services              4.6          2.5         7.1
Project preparation            1.1         4.5         5.6
Project Preparation Facility  -            1.1         1.1
Base Cost Estimates     17.3         16.8        34.1
Physical contingencies         0.5         0.9         1.4
Price contingencies            5.6         3.2         8.8
Total Project Cost /_   23.4         20.9        44.3
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan    -            0.1         0.1
Total Financing
Requirements            23.4         21.0        44.4
Financing Plan
IBRD /2                     4.6         21.0        25.6
Government                  18.8         -          18.8
Total                   23.4         21.0        44.4



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank FY:  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
(3 million)
Annual           3.1   2.5   4.0   5.0   6.0   4.5   0.5
Cumulative      3.1   5.6   9.6  14.6  20.6  25.1  25.6
Economic Rate of Return: 17Z (for the production components of the project).
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4504-PR, dated October 26, 1983.
/1 Total project cost includes identifiable taxes of $1.8 million; differ-
ence in subtotal for base cost estimate is due to rounding.
/2 Including repayment of two advances from the Bank's Project
Preparation Facility totalling $1 million, exclusive of interest.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $25.6 million
including the capitalized front-end fee of $0.1 million, to help finance the
Central Visayas regional development project. The loan would be repaid over
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled -The Philippines:  Selected Issues for
the 1983-1987 Plan Period' (No. 3861-PH) was distributed to the Executive
Directors under Sec. M82-542, dated June 16, 1982.  A special report, "Aspects
of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No 2984-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under Sec. M80-919.
Country data are given in Annex 1./1
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, the Philippines followed a much more dynamic,
growth-oriented development strategy than in earlier decades. The growth rate
of GDP rose from 5.1% in the 1960s to 6.3% in the 1970s, a rate well above
that of lower middle-income oil importers (5.4%) but lower than that of com-
parab'le Asian countries. Expansion of the agricultural sector was rapid at
about 5% p.a. Manufacturing industry, growing at the same rate as GNP, did
not play a leading role in the Philippines- economic development. Although
manufactured exports grew dramatically, the greater part of the sector
remained oriented to the domestic market and was affected by severe
inefficiencies.
4.        Although economic performance was relatively good in the 1970s,
structural weaknesses in the economy held it back below its full potential.
GDP growth was achieved at a high investment cost - the incremental
capital/output ratio (ICOR) was about 35% higher than those of comparable
Asian countries. Although inherently capital-intensive infrastructure invest-
ments explain part of the high ICOR, inefficiency of industrial investment was
the more important cause. Inappropriate trade, industrial, financial, and
exchange rate policies designed to foster import substitution, provided high
protection for domestic manufacturers, and led to investments in activities in
which the Philippines did not have a clear comparative advantage. External
borrowing and imports expanded rapidly while traditional exports and domestic
resource mobilization lagged. This resulted in a chronic shortage of foreign
/I   The projections in the Annexes are under revision.



- 2-
exchange and increasing external debt.
5.        Despite satisfactory aggregate growth during the 1970s, the
incidence of poverty remained around 40%, income distribution continued to be
skewed, and regional disparities remained pronounced. The incidence of
poverty reached 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and
lack safe water, basic education, and health facilities. An increasingly
unfavorable man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into
marginal lands, limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and
the sharp deterioration in the external terms of trade put downward pressure
on real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs to
improve directly living conditions of the poor, most of these were implemented
on any significant scale only during the last few years and will require
several years to achieve a marked impact.
6.        Growth of productive employment, pa-ticularly in the industrial
sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the labor force, and consid-
erable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the agriculture and service
sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion of new entrants to the
labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the first half of the
decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-intensive export pro-
duction grew. Oversea. employment, especially in the Middle East, increased
rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
7.        Population growth in the Philippines was reduced from 3% in the
1960s to 2.5% in the early 1980s. There are indications, however, that it may
have levelled off prematurely at that level. Thus, rapid population growth
continues to strain available land resources, aggravate already serious
employment and poverty problems, and burden the public budget with a high
growth in demand for basic public services. The Philippines has family
planning program which expanded rapidly during the 1970s, however, partici-
pation in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards.
8.        The structural weaknesses of the Philippine economy and unfavorable
world economic conditions exacerbated the balance of payments problems towards
the end of the decade. In the late 1970s, the country-s terms of trade
deteriorated sharply due to oil price increases, accelerated international
inflation, and depressed prices for major export commodities. The continued
heavy reliance on export earnings from a few primary products (coconuts,
sugar, copper, and timber) kept the Philippines extremely vulnerable to
international commodity price fluctuations, while continued high dependence on
imported oil further aggravated the balance of payments problem. Also the
industrial sector remained a net burden on the balance of payments; although
manufactured exports grew rapidly, their net foreign exchange earnings were
limited due to a high import content.
Structural Adjustment Measures
9.        To improve economic performance within the framework of a more
adverse external environment, the Government, since 1980, has been
implementing a medium-term program of structural reforms to improve the



allocation and efficiency of investment and increase the mobilization of
domestic resetrces. The program aims at reducing the current account deficit
to more sustainable levels of 2-32 of GNP, limiting the country's reliance on
foreign savings, and establishing a more liberal and competitive environment
for economic development by strengthening the role of market forces in
resource allocation. The structural adjustment program has been phased to
give tie economy time to adapt to the new policy framework. The first phase
focused on trade, industrial, and financial policies, which have been primary
causes of the low efficiency and unsatisfactory allocation of investment in
the private sector. The second phase, which is currently being implemented,
extends the industrial and trade reforms and includes initial measures in the
energy sector and public resource management. Future phases will address
issues in the energy, public finance, and in agricultural sectors.
10.       Industry.  Industrial and related policies are one focus of the
Philippines- structural adjustment program. Excessive protection and an arti-
ficially low cost of capital led to low efficiency of investment and stagnant
employment in industries producing for the domestic market. Export promotion
measures induced rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured exports, e.g.,
garments, electronics and handicrafts, from $50 million in 1970 to $2.4 bil-
lion in 1982. However, export expansion was concentrated on a few items, and
backward linkages were limited by high cost and low quality of domestic
inputs. As part of the structural adjustment program, the Government has
initiated major policy reforms designed to move towards an industrial
structure utilizing more effectively the country's comparative advantage with
respect to labor cost and raw material availability and which is
internationally competitive. The reforms cover the following major areas:
(a) trade policy, (b) expert incentives, (c) industrial investment incentives,
and (d) industrial rehabilitation. The implementation of the program has been
good despite the international recession, which has hampered the adjustment
proce.-s in the manufacturing sector ana slowed down the growth rate from
arorad 4% in 1980-81 to an estimated 1% in 1982-83.
11.       Financial Sector.  Although well developed, the Philippine financial
sector has not performed adequately in raising private sector savings and pro-
viding investment financing. Among the main reasons have been the level and
structure of interest rates which were not geared to mobilize sufficient sav-
ings and encourage longer maturities; their low level contributed to rela-
tively inefficient and capital-intensive investment. Further, the Central
Bank's rediscounting scheme frequently resulted in encouraging over investment
in some sectors while others were relatively neglected. In 1981, the
Government introdnced far-reaching financial policy changes. The banking sys-
tem was given greater flexibility, interest rates were deregulated, and the
Central Bank was given a stronger position in its role as -lender-of-last-
resort-, all of which produced positive real interest rates (for the first
time since 1978) and a significant increase in domestic savings. Government-
owned lending institutions have made less progress; as a result of insuffi-
cient autonomy in the selection of their portfolios, loan collection rates
continue to be very low and substantial government budgetary support is
required. Rehabilitation of several government-owned institutions is
necessary to reduce strains on the budget and to continue important develop-
ment banking operations.



- 4 -
12.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  While the performance of the
agricultural sector was satisfactory during the 1970s, some policy problems
still remain unresolved. The Philippines, once a major importer of rice,
eliminated rice deficits in the late 1970s and expanded fish and meat produc-
tion. There is, however, a need for further diversification and promotion of
commercial crops to improve the balance of payments position either through
expansion of agricultural exports or through efficient import substitution.
Trade policies in the Philippines have discriminated agalnst agriculture.
Pricing and exchange rate policies have also had a negative impact on incomes
in the agricultural sector. The institutional framework for agricultural
policy formulatton and implementation suffers from serious fragmentation.
Overall, there is a need to deal directly with the problem of the rural poor,
particularly farmers engaged in rainfed agriculture, coconut growers,
municipal fishermen, and landless sugar workers. Increasingly, investment
programs wiil have to be directed towards rainfed agriculture and include
innovative approaches to reaching smallholder farmers.
13.       Energy. Another sector critical for the success of the Philippines'
structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the 1973-74 oil
price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort to reduce its
dependence on imported oil. Through a combination of pricing, taxation, and
conservation measures, the government exerted downward pressure on comercial
energy consumption. Steps to increase and diversify domestic energy supply
i.e., the development of hydroelectric, geothermal, nuclear and coal based
power sources, have contributed to reducing import dependence. Limited domes-
tic petroleum production also began in 1979. However, due to the long gesta-
tion period of energy projects, domestic energy production still constituted
only 21% of total coumercial energy supply In 1982. In response to the second
oil crisis, the Government included in its adjustment program policy measures
for the energy sector which aim at further reducing the country-s dependence
on oil imports through improving the efficiency of energy use and increasing
the share of domestic sources to nearly 50% of commercial energy supply by
1987. Pricing policy will continue to support conservation and revenue
objectives.
14.       Public Sector Resource Management.  The management of public sector
resources has been a chronic problem in the Philippines, which has been fur-
ther aggravated by the current recession. The fiscal stress generated by the
growing imbalance between public investment and public sector resource
mobilization has manifested itself in a number of ways. Government current
expenditures (exclusive of interest payments) have been reduced to only 9% of
GNP, as compared to an average of 14% of GNP in middle-income developing
countries. Implementation of projects has been stretched over longer periods
of time than is economically efficient. The overall public sector deficit has
become excessively high and has threatened the stability of the economy,
particularly in 1981-1982. A rapidly rising level of public investment and an
inadequate financial performance of public corporations contributed to
increase the fiscal deficit despite a reduction of recurrent expenditures. In
1982 the public sector deficit, which traditionally had been relatively small,
increased to 5.5% of GNP.



15.       As a short-term response, the Government is now implementing a fis-
cal austerity program designed to reduce the national budgetary deficit to
manageable 'evels. The Government has reduced equity contributions and
investment programs and enacted revenue measures which will improve the cur-
rent imbalance. However, to improve the medium-term outlook for public
finances, structural problems of the system need to be addressed.
The Current Economic Situation
16.       The economic situetion of the Philippines has deteriorated
seriously in the last three years.  The global recession, with low commodity
prices, high interest rates on external borrowing, and an increasingly unfav-
orable trading climate has stymied economic growth, slowed down export growth,
depressed domestic demand and private investment activity and aggravated the
fiscal and balance of payments problems. Real GDP growth fell from 5.9% in
1980 and 3.8X in 1981 to an estimated 2.9Z in 1982 and is projected to reach
only 2% in 1983. Agriculture continued to perform satisfactorily, but
industrial sector growth deteriorated markedly.  Recessionary conditions and a
liquidity crisis in the financial sector in 1981 restrained private invest-
ment, although this was partially offset by a further expansion of public
fixed investment to around 8% of GNP in 1980-82. In the wake of the second
oil crisis, the economy suffered from a temporary acceleration in the
inflation rate, which rose from 7% in 1978 to around 17% in 1979/80 before
moderating to 10% in 1982.
17.       On the balance of payments side, the current account deficit widened
from $2.1 billion (5.9% of GNP) in 1980 to $3.4 billion (8.5% of GNP) in
1982. To finance the large current account deficit, the Government had to
increase its external borrowing, most of which has been in short-term maturi-
ties. With the increased external borrowing and poorer export performance
the total debt service ratio, including interest on short-term debt, increased
from 21% in 1980 to 38% in 1982. The overall deficit reached $1.2 billion in
1982.
18.       To reverse the deterioration in the balance of payments, the Govern-
ment formulated an austere financial program for calendar 1983, supported by
an IMF Standby Agreement. The principal objectives of the program were to
reduce the current account deficit to $2.5 billion (6.2% of GNP), and to
reduce the overall deficit to $600 million. These objectives were to be
achieved throfigh a tight monetary policy, a significantly tighter fiscal
policy, and continued implementation of a flexible, market-oriented exchange
rate policy. Although the Government adhered to the financial program agreed
with the IMF (except for a technical violation of domestic credit ceiling),
the balance of payments failed to improve as intended. The main causes of
these disappointing results were: (a) agricultural export shortfalls caused
by a severe drought; (b) some speculation against the peso and capital flight;
and (c) apparent reluctance of the international commercial banks to increase
their exposure to the full extent envisaged in the financial program. The
overall deficit for the first three quarters of 1983 was $1.3 billion, or
twice the target for the year.



- 6 -
19.       Under these circumstances, the Government and IMF have agreed to
replace the 1983 program with a new, even more austere, financial program
covering the last quarter of 1983 and all of 1984. The most significant
measure, a 21% devaluation at the peso, was adopted in October, and further
tightening of monetary and fiscal policies is expected. Ten major creditor
commercial banks from North America, Japan, and Europe recently agreed to a
90-day moratorium on repayments of principal and on the formation of a debt
management advisory committee. The IMF is consulting closely with the commer-
cial banks and the World Bank to ensure the availability of adequate financ-
ing, including debt rescheduling if appropriate, for the new program.
Medium-Term Prospects
20.       The outlook for the Philippines' balance of payments during the next
2-3 years remains difficult as new constraints emerged due to slow recovery of
the economy and limited availability of external resources. Exports are
likely to remain sluggish in 1983/84, as supply of coconut oil and sugar, the
major primary exports, has been severely affected by a drought in the southern
Philippines. In addition, the country faces a rapid increase in debt service
obligations and needs to build up net official reserves which have fallen
considerably in the last few years. Constraints on private-source capital
inflows emerged as international commercial banks became reluctant to increase
their exposure in developing countrles. Under these circumstances, the avail-
ability of external resources will determine the maximum external deficits
which the Philippines will be able to sustain in 1983-85 without incurring
liquidity problems. A drastic reduction in the current account deficit from
$2.3 billion in 1983 to $400 million in 1985 would be required. The adjust-
ment would have to be made in domestic resource availability through a
temporary reduction of imports. As a result, growth of GDP, investment, and
consumption are projected to be affected negatively in 1984. The structural
improvements and adjustment measures now underway, however, should make it
possible to restore economic growth after 1985 to pre-recession levels.
21.       At present, the Philippines' balance of payments position is highly
sensitive to exogenous and endogenous factors, which make projections subject
to a wide margin of error. Externally, world market conditions, petroleum
prices, access to international commercial bank lending, and the level of
interest rates will have a significant impact on the balance of payments per-
formance. On the domestic side, the effectiveness of the Government's stabi-
lization and adjustment programs will also have a significant effect on the
country-s balance of payments position. During the current financial crisis,
the MLT debt service ratio increased from 18% in 1980 to 26% in 1982 and is
likely to remain high through 1984. Thereafter it is expected to decline
gradually to a level of 22% by the late 1980s. External conditions have begun
to improve; negotiations with the IMF and comuerical banks are progressing
well, and the Government is taking appropriate adjustment measures to improve
balance of payments performance. Therefore, the Philippines remains credit-
worthy for new Bank borrowing on conventional terms. Local cost financing for
some projects continues to be justified, particularly in the aftermath of the
current recession when the economy faces an exceptionally tight resource
position.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
22.       As of September 30, 1983 the Philippines had received 90 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $3,867.10 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$159.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and out-
standing is currently about 15, and its share in total debt service is about
10%. These ratios are expected to be about 16% and 13%, respectively, by
1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC invest-
ments as of September 30, 1983.
23.       Bank Group lending to the Philippines expanded from an average of
about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an average of $459 million in FY79-
83. Although the Bank has financed projects in virtually all sectors of the
economy, particular emphasis has been given to agriculture, which has
accounted for almost one-third of total Bank/IDA lending. Lending for
industry, transportation, power, and socia. sectors followed in declining
order of size.
24.       In agriculture, lending initially focussed on expanding the irriga-
tion system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural production
through loans for tree-crops, livestock, fisheries, and integrated rural
development projects. Agriculture and rural development will continue to
account for the largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production,
poverty alleviation, policy reform and institutional building.
25.       In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has supported
policy reforms under the Government's structural adjustment program. An
Industrial Finance Loan sought to bring about improvements in financial sector
policies and introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach of
Bank lending by channelling loans through an 'apex' unit in the Central
Bank. In addition, the Bank has continued to provide financial support and
technical assistance to small and medium industries.
26.       In the energy sector, sector work and the structural adjustment pro-
gram initiated under SAL II provide the basis for future lending operations.
While previous Bank lending focussed on the power subsecte., the Bank now
seeks to support a broader range of activities; in addition to recent energy
exploration loans, the Bank plans to continue assisting the accelerated
development of geothermal and coal, power generation and transmission, energy
conservation, and rural electrification.
27.       By and large implementation of Bank-financed projects In the
Philippines has been satisfactory. Disbursements, however, have been slower
than anticipated, particularly in the last three years. The disbursement
ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as compared to the total undis-
bursed at the beginning of the fiscal year) declined from 1.;.7% in FY79 to



-8-
14.2Z in FY83./2  The East Asia Regional average was 20.0Z and the Bank-wide
average wai; 20.82 in FY83;J13 the comparable ratios for Thailand and Morocco
were 16.9Z and 13.72 respectively in the same fiscal year./4 Implementation
problems 'ncreased in the last few years, reflecting in part problems caused
by inflacion, tight budget constraints, and changes in the scope of the Bank's
ler--tag operations (a substantial increase in the number of projects, new
areas of lending, emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach spe-
cific target groups and deprived regions). In recognition of growing imple-
mentation problems, the Government and the Bank have instituted a process of
joint Country Implementation Reviews. Four reviews have been held since May
1980 and will be continued on a regular basis.
28.       This is the first loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. A land settlement project and a second
Land Bank project have been appraised and are scheduled for Board presentation
during this fiscal year. Staff are now preparing two new operations, an agri-
culture sector loan and an export development fund, for consideration during
the next twelve months. Two supplementary loan packages for agriculture, and
the urban and transport sectors are being prepared under the Bank's Special
Action Program (SAP), and would be presented to the Board in the second half of
FY84. SAP measures already approved include increasing the cost sharing
ratio, the provision of retroactive financing and the establishment of special
accounts for a number of projects.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR AND REGIONALIZAIION
General
29.      Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about 302 of gross domestic product (GDP), 602 of foreign
exchange earnings and over half the total employment. Although agriculture-s
share of GDP is falling, food production rose during the 1970s at an average
of 52 p.a. This was achieved by the introduction of high yielding crop
varieties and technical packages coupled with improved extension and farm
credit and, to a lesser extent, irrigation. Most of these initiatives were
directed at rice and corn production, which together account for about one
third of the value of agricultural production, two thirds of rural employment,
and over half of the cropped area.
/2   Excludes disbursements under the first and second Structural Adjustment
Loan. If included, the ratio increases to 21.6%.
/3  Regional and Bank-wide figures also exclude disbursements under SALs.
14   Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs. Figures also
exclude SALs.



30.       About 70% of the country's populatiom lives in rural areas, where
nearly two thirds of the households depend on small farms for most of their
income. About 85Z of the 2.35 million farms in the Philippines are smaller
than 5 ha. The average farm size is 2.7 ha. Five percent of all farmers have
10 ha or more in production, accounting for 34% of all farmland. About 58Z of
farmers own their land, 30% are share tenants, and the remaining 12%,
excluding squatters, have a variety of tenancy arrangements including
leaseholding. About 41% of all rural households subsist below the absolute
poverty income level of $204 per capita.
Government Objectives and Strategy
31.       The Government-s latest (1983-87) five-year development plan sets
general objectives of high growth, greater resource mobilization, reduced
income disparities and improved environmental quality. All of these apply to
rural development, but specific goals most relevant to the agricultural sector
are poverty reduction, continueA rice self-sufficiency and more diversified
agricultural production. Specific-programs include land tenure reform, crop
research, and a wide range of crop production programs combining credit, input
supply and/or technical support. Infrastructure investments emphasize rural
electrification, irrigation and roads.
Experience with Past Lendin
32.      A total of 38 loans and credits have been granted to the Philippines
for investments in agriculture, fisheries and rural development. Of these
loans, 12 were for irrigation development or rehabilitation and another 12
were for agricultural credit.  The current rural portfolio will comprise, by
the end of 1983, 20 projects including seven In area development, five in
irrigation, three in support services, two in agricultural credit, and three
others in watershed management, fisheries and tree crops.
33.       The experience with lending for agriculture has been mixed. The
Eank's Operations Evaluation Department Report (1982) on the agricultural and
rural development program in the Philippines states that -the lending portfo-
lio has reflected well the major objectives and priorities of national
development plans. Developments in irrigation have been positive, including
the establishment of a strong institution (-he National Irrigation Administra-
tion) and an expansion of irrigated areas. In credit, operations have been
largely successful in providing funds for onfarm investment, but serious
institutional and loan recovery problems remain. Ongoing area development
projects such as Mindoro Rural Development (Loan 1102-PH), Land Settlement I
(Loan 1421-PH), Samar Island Rural Development (Loan 1772-PH), and Rainfed
Agricultural Development (Loan 1815-PH) have encountered implcmentation delays
due to problems of interagency coordination and lack of authority at the local
level but. nevertheless, appear likely to attain their objectives.



- 10 -
34.       Experience with the above projects has been considered in designing
the proposed project. In particular, three guiding principles have been
applied: first, that the project be based on the stated needs and priorities
of the intended beneficiaries; second, that involved Government agencies be
made acc3untable to project clients and their local political representatives;
and third, that funds be passed directly from the Ministry of Budget (MB) to a
regional project office to decentralize implementation authority and improve
efficiency.  The regional offices of line ministries have been involved
throughout in project design.
Regionalization
35.       Since 1954, Government has select'vely decentralized its adminis-
tration of the rural sector and agriculture. This became more pronounced
since 1972 when the Integrated Reorganization Plan (IRP) was adopted. The
Plan called for the creation of a National Economic and Development
Authority (NEDA) to be responsible for economic planning, and for the
establishment of new administrative regions. Subsequent administrative
subdivision of the country grouped 73 provinces, excluding Metro Manila,
into 12 regions. Concurrently, NEDA set up Regional Development Councils
(RDCs) in each region to facilitate regional planning and representation in
lawmaking bodies, and to coordinate all planning and programming activities
of local and national bodies at the regional level. Regionalization
required Ministries to establish regional offices with adequate powers to
act over a wide range of administrative matters designed to improve public
services. In 1976, a system of regional budgeting was instituted to provide
a link with regional planning and to provide a mechanism for the RDC to
monitor budgetary releases to regional offices.
36.       At present, 15 ministries have regional offices and another six
have regional representation.  However, surveys have indicated that "region-
alization' is interpreted differently by the various ministries and that
delegation of administrative powers has been quite uneven. Recently, the
Government set as a priority the delegation of stipulated responsibilities
to regional authorities.
37.       With assistance from a Bank-executed UNDP-financed technical
assistance project,/5 the NEDA produced in 1977 comprehensive national and
regional five-vear, 10-year and year 2000 development plans. The Government
and the Bank agreed, in 1977, to formulate a regional development program
for the Central Visayas (Region VII) which would became a prototype for all
twelve regions. In line with methodology stipulated in the five-year plan,
an area development strategy was adopted to formulate a Regional Development
/5 NEDA-UNDP/IBRD Technical Assistance Project on Regional Planning and
Development, 1975-present.



- 11 -
Investment Program (RDIP) which could be replicated in other regions. The
in-country work was supported by a Bank mission in 1978 which set guidelines
for the first Bank-supported regional project in the Philippines.l6 As a
result of the successful experimental program for preparing the RDIP in
Region VII, which became the basis for the Central Visayas regional project,
in 1980 the President instructed the other regions to formulate RDIPs. The
regional five-year plans were revised in 1982 for the second five-year
period (1983-87). The RDIPs are currently being updated and will become the
basis of future regional projects as well as the basis for regional
budgeting which is being introduced by the Ministry of Budget (MB).
38.       Despite the progress noted above, the RDCs remain limited in their
influence over regional development as they have no supervisory authority
over the regional offices of line agencies, local governments or statutory
bodies operating in the regions, nor do they have substantial budget
resources of their own although they do receive small allocations from the
Regional Development Fund - a line item in the national budget which so far
has not received significant funding. However, it is also clear that
regionalization does have momentum, that further delegation of
responsibility is being sought, and is being cautiously allowed, and that
the experience with the Region VII experiment will be a vital factor in
determining the future of regionalization.
The Central Visays
39.       The Central Visayas Region comprises the island provinces of Cebu,
Bohol, Siquijor, Negros Oriental (eastern Negros) and a number of smaller,
minor islands (Map #17219). The Region's population was 3.8 million in
1980, representing 8Z of the national total. It has limited agricultural
potential, due mainly to its rugged and inacccessible topography dissected
by numerous river systems, and accounts for only 6Z of the total national
gross value added in agriculture (including fisheries and forestry). Over
the years, the pattern of land use in the Region has been characterized by
insecurity of tenure which leads to short-term, low-cost production
strategies, and inequities due to conflicting policies of government
agencies regarding land allocations for fish ponds, grazing and logging. In
turn, this has led to deterioration of the natural resource base and
perpetuated poverty for thousands of settlers on forest land, uplands and
nearshore areas constituting about 46X of the Region's area.
40.       The Region has pioneered a land stewardship program under which
conditional leases are granted to present land occupants. Stewardship
contracts provide settlers with security of tenure, for 25 years extendable
to 50 on condition of compliance with a resource management plan, which
/6 The Philippines: A development strategy and investment priorities for
the Central Visayas (Region VII). Two volumes. World Bank Report
No. 2264-PH. January 4, 1979.



- 12 -
would be evaluated periodiLally. To support the stewardship policy larger
scale concessions in public lands within the Region for fish ponding, timber
cutting and grazing have become more difficult to obtain.
41.       The Bank's review of povertv in the Philippines /7 identified the
Region as the nation's second poorest having an average poverty incidence of
almost 60% in 1975, compared with 47.5% for the country as a whole. The
Region ranks among the poorest in the Philippines in terms of per capita
distribution of arable land and agricultural productivity. For these
reasons the Region was chosen in 1977 by the national government for
implementation of the nation's first regional project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
42.       The proposed project was prepared by the Central Visayas Regional
Project Office (CVRPO), the first region-based project preparation unit to
be established in the Philippines, with assistance from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program, and was appraised in November 1982. Negotiations were
completed in Washington, D.C. by October 7, 1983. The Philippine negotiating
team was led by NEDA Deputy Director General A. Locsin.  A staff appraisal
report No. 4504-PH, dated October 26, 1983 is being circulated separately.
Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
43.       The project is region-wide in scope in that investmeants are pro-
posed at five watersheds in all four provinces (Map #17031) and constitute
part of the overall Regional Development Investment Program (RDIP). The
original proposal covered 12 watershed sites in the four provinces, but
owing :' budgetary constraints and the need to test new proposed procedures
for regional development initially on a pilot scale, the Government reduced
the initial proposal to five sites requesting that the other seven sites be
considered in a subsequent project after the first has been evaluated.
Objectives
44.       The project would improve the incomes and living standards of
poor, sm.ll-scale producers in the project areas, particularly upland farmers
and artis,aaal fishermen, through improvements in the management of the
forest, upland, and nearshore habitats both by arresting the rapid degrada-
tion of the environment and augmenting the resource base.  The project would
17 Aspects of poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment. World
Bank Report No. 2984-PH. December 1, 1980.



- 13 -
also reinforce the Government's regionalization program, set out in the
Integrated Reorganization Plan introduced in 1972, as part of its evolving,
long-term decentralization policy, thus ensuring greater administrative and
budgetary antonomy for the Region, maxi:um financial accountability by
project managers and staff, and maximum participation by local officials and
beneficiaries.
Description
45.       The project would be implemented on a pilot scale in one watershed
in each of four provinces and a social forestry area in Negros Oriental
Province. The sites involve a total land area of 140,000 ha, a coastline of
200 km and a population of about 200,000. Project sites were selected
according to provincial development priorities, relative poverty of
inhabitants, degree of ecological degradation, development opportunities
including public land availability, and attitudes of the people toward
development. The technologies being introduced under the project are
simple, inexpensive and do not depart radically from current practices.  In
fact, examples of all the advocated technologies can be found within the
Region. Supporting institutions would be strengthened and the project would
fund specialized training, technical assistance and research in support of
the production activities. Project preparation efforts in other regions
would also be supported.
Components
46.       Watershed Management. Because the region has a limlted agricul-
tural resource base, but a substantial forestry and fisheries potential, a
watershed /8 development approach was adopted. The watershed management
component comprises programs on upland agriculture, social forestry, near-
shore fisheries and infrastructure, mainly access roads and trails. The
upland agriculture program would be implemented in four watersheds. With
the incentive of securing tenure over their land, upland farmers would be
assisted in transferring from shifting cultivatioa of annual crops which
causes serious soil erosion, to more stable systems utilizing perennial
crops and livestock. Planting material, farm tools, crop inputs and live-
stock would be provided to farmers as payment in-kind for soil conservation
and replantiug works according to farm development plans conceived with, and
supervised by, project technical staff. Management units would be estab-
lished at each site including service buildings, plant nurseries, stock
facilities, holding areas for vehicles and materials, and staff.
/8 Watershed is defined as the river system, from its land source to
its sea outlet.



- 14 -
47.       The social forestry program would be implemented at one site, a
fo?mer company concession, in Negros Oriental Province where slash-and-burn
farmers (kaingin) have entered the iorest and claimed land causing further
denudation. The program has two main activities: forest stand improvement
and reforestation. The former would be implemented on logged-over forest
land of about 8,000 ha which is beginning to regenerate, the latter on about
8,000 ha of open grass, brush and cultivated land, about 3,000 ha of which
would be retained for subsistence cropping. Seedlings, fertilizer, herbi-
cides, tools and fire prevention equipment would be provided to farmers as
payment in-kind for soil conservation and reforestation works under land
stewardship agreements with government, which offer the settlers security of
tenure over their land. A management unit would be established at the site
including service buildings, a seedling nursery, a holding area for vehicles
and material, and staff.
48.       The nearshore fisheries program would establish artificial reefs,
replant denuded mangrove areas, establish coral reef sanctuaries at four
sub-sites in the four provinces, and include the allocation of use rights to
cooperating families. The sites would include most of the shoreliue areas
adjacent to three of the upland agriculture sites (Cebu, Bohol and Siquijor)
and the social forestry site (Negros Oriental). Investments would include
reef construction materials, nonmotorized barges, motorized baucas to tow
the barges, tools, buoys and mangrove seedlings. Subsite management units
would be established at the four coastal sites including service buildings,
holding areas for vehicles and supplies, and staff.
49.       To service the various agriculture development programs, the pro-
ject would support construction of access roads and trails, including 97 km
of new works, 125 km of improvements, and the grading of about 475 km of
trails in the five project sites, including the nearshori locations.
50.       Support Services.  The support services component of the project
would comprise institution strengthening, training and technical assistance,
and research. Under the former, the Regional Office of the Hinistry of
Agriculture (RMA) would be strengthened to provide soil and livestock
services to the project. The Regional Office of the Bureau of Forest
Development (RBFD) would be strengthened to undertake off-farm reforestation
at all the sites, and general regulatory services at forestry sites. The
Regional Office of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources would be
strengthened to provide regulatory services. A new Regional Projects Office
(RPO) would be established to manage the overall project. These four
offices above would be provided funds for staff, service buildings and civil
works, vehicles, equipment, soil survey materials, livestock facilities, and
stock.
51.       Project training and technical assistance would improve the skills
of project staff and participants, particularly farmers and fishermen, and
related line agency personnel, to implement the project. It would also
improve regior.al training facilities which are generally inadequate for the
scope of the project. Training would cover 22 courses dealing with all



- 15 -
aspects of the project, with 10 for project staff and participants, and 12
for related line agency personnel. A total of 44 fellowships and tours
would be offered in 11 subjects to complement project-funded training. The
project would fund about 27 staff-years of consultant time, about one third
of which is exHected to come from overseas, comprising studins on
management, agriculture including credit, forestry, fisheries, communal
irrigation, socioeconomics, and development of training materials.
52.       Applied research aimed at improving low-input farming systems for
the slopes and uplands of the Region would be supported. RMA would conduct
on-farm trials in the project sites utilizing annual and perennial crops and
livestock. The work would be integrated with research by the Farm Systems
and Soil Research Institute of the University of the Philippines at Los
Banos. Funds would also be provided RMA to establish an upland research
station to complement the Ministry's lowland research facilities on Bohol
Island which are being upgraded under the Bank-supported Agricultural
Support Services Project (Loan 2040-PH). Forestry research would be
supported by funding an expanded program by the Regional Office of the
Forest Research Institute (RFORI).
53.       Project Preparation.  The proposed loan would include repayment
of two advances from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) which
partly funded the preparation and preimplementation of the project. Addi-
tional funds would be provided to assist preparation of other regional
projects, including a possible second phase of the proposed project, and for
preimplementation of the second Central Visayas Regional Project (Urban) due
for appraisal in FY84.
Organization and Ilanagement
54.       The Central Visayas Regional Project (CVRP) is the first major
foreign-funded project in the Philippines to support regionalization and
involve local governments in the design and implementation osf RDIPs. The
project is innovative in nature as it proposes fiscal and administrative
reforms to strengthen decentralization, and new institutions and procedures
to bring it about. An Action Program has been agreed with the Government
to ensure the establishment and staffing of site management units for the
various project components (Section 3.06 and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreements). Most of the arrangements for implementing the Program are in
place. The immediate implementation of the Action Program would ensure
that project activities would commence on schedule.
55.       The Regional Development Council (RDC) has primary responsibility
for regional planning, programming and budgeting. Executive Order No. 907,
dated September 10, 1983 has amended earlier legislation and created the
Regional Projects Office (RPO) as an implementing agency which has taken
over from CVRPO which was responsible for preparation and pre-implementation
of the project. A Central Visayas Regional Projects Board has been
designated by the Prime Minister to establish and direct the RPO. The



- 16 -
chairman of RDC serves as chairman of the Board. The Executive Director for
the RPO has been nominated and would hold overall responsibility for all
investments in Region VII including this project. The Executive Director
has been involved in the planning of this project since its inception.
Formal appointment of the nominated Executive Director and confirmation of
the designated Board members are expected shortly. The RPO would be funded
directly by MB, according to RDC-approved annual schedules of expenditures,
and is empowered to appoint staff, and to contract work with Government and
private agencies. It would also be responsible for project monitoring and
evaluation, the system for which has been formulated during 1983 and would
be established immediately following loan effectiveness. It is a condition
of loan effectiveness that the Board would place in RPO an overall project
manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (Secton
5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Site Management Units (SMUs), under the RPO, would be responsible
for implementing agricultural programs in the four watersheds and the social
forestry program.  Sub-SMUs would be responsible for managing the nearshore
fisheries program. By June 30, 1984, the RPO would acquire land and
establish (a) five SMIIs to implement the upland agriculture and social
forestry programs and four sub-SMUs to implement the nearshore fisheries
program; and (b) appoint five managers of the SMUs and four deputy managers
of the sub-SMUs (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The social forestry SMi  would operate like the SiUs at the four
upland agricultural sites. The SMU would ve responsible for issuing
stewardship contracts on forest land to settlers selected from amonG the
itinerant occupants, according to established criteria. The substance of
the contracts has been drafted already, as the program was pioneered in the
Region. By June 30, 1984, the RPO would request that BFD Central Office
reserve the Ayungon-Bindoy site for the social forestry program (Section
3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       RBFD also would be responsible for off-farm reforestation and
forest regulatory services at all sites under the project. In addition, the
Bureau would be responsible, through the Regional Office of the Forest
Research Institute (RFORI), for forestry research activities under the
project. RBFD would also implement the forestry part of the training and
technical assistance components of the project. By June 30, 1984, the RPO
would designate RBFD to provide support services under the project, under
memoranda of agreement with RPO, and would appoint officers-in-charge of the
services (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture (RMA) would be
responsible for providing soil and livestock services under the project. In
addition, RMA would be responsible for establishing an upland research
station, administering an upland research fund, and providing packages of
technology to farmers. RMA would also be responsible for the agricultural
part of the training and technical assistance components of the project. By



- 17 -
June 30, 1984, the RPO would designate RMA to provide support services under
the project, under memoranda of agreement with RPO, and would appoint
officers-in-charge of the services (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
60.       The Regional Office of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources (RBFAR) of MNR would be responsible for providing regulatory
services and implementing the fisheries part of the training and technical
assistance components of the project. By June 30, 1986, the RPO would
designate RBFAR to provide support services under the project, under
memoranda of agreement with RPO, and appoint officers-in-charge of the
services (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       The four Provincial Engineers' Offices (PEOs) of Cebu, Negros
Oriental, Bohol and Siquijor Provinces would implement the infrastructure
component of the project. A rural road construction section would be
established within each PEO, and would be responsible for implementing the
programs with assistance from qualified local consultants. By June 30,
1984, the RPO would designate the four PEfls to implement and maintain the
infrastructure program of the project, under memoranda of agreement with
RPO, establish rural road construction sections within the PEOs, and appoint
officers-in-charge of the programs (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The detailed engineering designs of the programs were completed
during 1983.
Cost
62.       Total project cost is estimated, as of the third quarter 1983, at
$44.4 million, including taxes and duties equivalent to $1.8 million. The
estimated foreign exchange cost is $20.0 million (47%). Expected price
increases ($8.8 million) over the project period amount to about 25Z of
total base costs; inflation of local costs was estimated at 12% for 1984,
8.0% for 1985, and 7% through 1990 and inflation of foreign exchange costs
was estimated at 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% thereafter. Physical
contingencies ($1.4 million), at 5% of base cost for buildings and 10% for
equipment and civil works, have been applied, but not for on-farm develop-
ment costs as these are based on actual farming costs. Consultancies
($1.4 million), including about 8 staff-years of overseas and 19 staff-
years of local expertise, are required to implement the project, and are
estimated to cost on average about $10,000 (including international travel,
and subsistence) and $1,700 per month, respectively.   -
Financing
63.       The proposed Bank loan of $25.6 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee of $0.1 million, would contribute 60Z of total project cost,
excluding taxes, and cover the total foreign exchange cost of $21.0 million
plus local costs equivalent to $4.6 million. The remaining $18.8 million



- IR -
plus local costs equivalent to $4.6 million. The remaining $18.8 million
would be provided by Government. The partial coverage of local costs by
Bank lending is designed to assist the Government at a time of overall
budgetary stringency (para. 21).
Procurement
64.       Construction equipment for the PEOs to be utilized for road
improvement and maintenance ($0.9 million) and vehicles ($0.6 million) would
be bulked where suitable and purchased through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Eligible domestic manu-
facturers would receive a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price of the
imported goods, or the import duty, whichevez is lower. Equipment (mostly
hand tools) for on-site development of farming, forestry and nearshore
fisheries ($1.4 million) as well as planting materials, fertilizers, chemi-
cals, and other materials ($4.4 million) would be purchased through local
competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank; foreign suppliers are well represented in the country and would be
eligible to participate. Equipment costing less than $10,000 per lot but
not more than $150,000 in total would be purchased by prudent shopplng based
on three price quotations. Contracts for construction of new secondary
roads and trails ($8.2 million) and civil works contracts for the construc-
tion of buildings ($1.4 million) would be awarded under LCB. The small size
and dispersed location of the facilities would render them unsuitable for
ICB, but foreign contractors would not be precluded from bidding. The
improvement and maintenance of roads and watershed rehabilitation works
would be carried out by force account because of the difficult terrain and
the problem of attracting contractors to the upland sites. The construction
of artificial reefs and nearshore works would also be carried out by force
account to ensure proper implementation of the relatively new technologies.
Work carried out under force account would be limited to an aggregate amount
of $500,000. Construction materials and supplies would be procured through
normal commercial channels. Livestock purchases ($1.7 million) would be
procured by direct purchase from local ranchers at prices agreed on by a
review committee comprising a representative from project management, RMA
and the farmers. Overseas consultants for technical assistance would be
contracted according to Bank guidelines. All bidding packages for goods and
civil works over $100,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
This would result in coverage of about 68% by amount of goods, and 75Z of
civil works procurement. The balance of contracts would be reviewed by Bank
staff on a selective basis during supervision after contract award.
Disbursements
65.       Disbursements from the loan would cover: (a) 80% of civil works
expenditures; (o) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles, construction
equipment, production inputs and materials; 100% of local expenditures when
locally manufactured (ex-factory); and 70% of other local expenditures;



- 19 -
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures for consultants,
technical assistance, and overseas training; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures
or 80Z of local expenditures for CVRP II (Urban) and other regional project
preparation activities; (e) refinancing Project Preparation Facility advances;
and (f) the front-end fee.
66.       Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account and
for locally purchased items costing less than $10,000 would be made against
statements of expenditure. Disbursements for other expenditures would be
made against full documentation. All statements of expenditure would be
*       certified by the Project Manager and Financial Controller.  Supporting
documents would be retained in the RPO and made available for review by Bank
supervision missions until the project closing date of September 30, 1990.
Accounts and Audit
67.       The RPO would appoint a Project Financial Controller by May 31,
1984 who would follow accounting and auditing procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, and who would forward to the Bank by June 30 each year, beginning in
1985, project accounts and auditors' reports for the Philippine fiscal year
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). The audit report should certify
that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure had been used for the
purpose for which they were provided. It is a condition of loan effective-
ness that a revolving fund of up to $2.0 million would be established as a
Special Account within the Central Bank under the name of the Central
Visayas Regional Project to expedite disbursements and help overcome current
budgetary constraints. The fund would cover all categories of expenditures
to be financed under the loan.
Production
68.       At full production, about 5,700 direct participants in the upland
agriculture program would generate incremental annual crop production of
about 9,000 m tons. Incremental production from perennial crops, including
firewood, and from livestock products would also be significant. About
1,200 families would participate in the social forestry program. Production
from forest stand improvement is expected to be 15,000 cu m of logs and
232,000 poles during the first five years of the project. Production from
reforestation would be 423,000 m tons of firewood, 1,330,000 cu m of saw
logs, 4,512,000 cu m of rattan, and 300,000 posts during the life of the
project. There are an estimated 7,705 families in the four nearshore fish-
eries areas, over 4,000 of whom depend on fishing as their sole or major
source of income. Their production, at full development, is estimated to be
8,125 cu m of fuelwood from mangroves, 400 m of finfish and 180 m tons of
other sea products.



- 20 -
Marketing
69.       There is a well established and reasonably efficient private
sector marketing network to handle production inputs and projecL output in
the watershed areas of the project, and marketing margins for both inputs
and output are commensurate with costs and risks involved. Where marketing
infrastructure is deficient, traders often link provision of credit and
supplies to purchases of farm output. Often strong business bonds are based
on principles of allegiance and reciprocity between farmers and marketing
agents. The improved road and trail access provided by the project would
help reduce transport costs and improve marketing services in the project
areas, particularly after the pilot phase is completed.
Benefits
70.       The main focus of the project and its primary economic benefit
would be the increased incomes of some 14,600 poor families in five water-
sheds of Central Visayas, with indirect benefits for many others, through
incremental production of agriculture, forestry and nearshore fisheries. At
present, the incomes of these families are declining due to severe soil
erosion and fishery habitat degradation. The project is designed to promote
cultural practices which would reverse the trend and improve productivity of
the watersheds. The project would also create more effective regional and
local institutions for implementation of rural development activities in
Central Visayas and test the concept for broader application regionwide, and
ultimately for other regions in the country as well.
71.       The incremental per capita incomes derived directly from project
investments range from P 1,050 to P 3,400 a year for upland farming;
from P 450 to P 4,300 for social forestry; and from P 600 to P 1,500
for fisheries. These income levels are modest compared with average incomes
around the country. For example, the national average per capita rural
income demarcating the absolute poverty line is estimated to be about
P2,000 and per capita incomes resulting from project activities fluctuate
around this level although they would be significantly higher than at
present. Per capita incomes without the project could be expected to
decline further in most cases.
72.       Indirect benefits to other producers would include increased
nearshore fish production due to reduced reef siltation, reduced beach
erosion due to mangrove replanting, a reduction in destructive fishing
methods, reduced flooding and damage to downstream farms and roads, reduced
soil runoff leading to increased moisture supply for crop production,
increased employment as upland production increases, and reduced urban
migration. The project would help to stabilize the Cebu-based rattan
furniture industry since inadequate and unreliable supply of poles is a
primary constraint to increased production. Timber supplies would also be
improved as lumber consumption within the Region is estimated at 38 million
bd ft yearly which requires 178,OOD cu m of logs all of which come from
outside the Region.



- 21 -
73.       The labor requirement to implement the production components of
the project would be substantial. It is estimated that almost two million
man-days would be required to implement and maintain the new farm systems
until they reach full development. Although most of the labor would be
provided by members of participant families, some would be contributed by
other workers seeking employment within the four watershed sites.
Environmental Impact
74.       The project is designed to have a beneficial environmental impact
ranging from stabilization and rehabilitation of the upland forestry and
agricultural areas, which are badly eroded, to reductions in siltation and
damage to the nearshore mangrove and reef areas; in turn, this would lead
to increased productivity from all parts of the watershed. Possible adverse
effects resulting from the use of agricultural chemicals would be minimized
through the use of composting and the introduction of farm systems that
reduce rainfall runoff so that residues from the small amounts of chemicals
applied would not be carried downstream.
Cost Recovery
75.       The project would not attempt to recover the relatively small
investment costs from farmer and fishermen participants for two reasons:
(a) beneficiaries' income at full development would be only moderately above
absolute poverty levels; and (b) a modest government input is necessary to
induce farmers and fishermen to shift from current harmful practices to
practices which conserve the soil and nearshore resources in the project
areas.  Labor contributed by project participants would be equial to or
greater than the in-kind compensation which they would receive as planting
material, tools, livestock and agricultural chemicals. In the forestry
component, the project would attempt to recover the initial on-farm
investment costs from beneficiaries through stumpage charges, which would be
a percentage of the market price of the cut wood at the farm gate. The
details of amount and timing of the stumpage charges would be recommended by
the SMU and decided by the RPO in coordination with RBFD during project
execution.
Justification
76.       The production components of the project, including infrastruc-
ture, account for about 70% of total costs, and show air estimated economic
rate of return of 17%. For the production components of the project, a
decline in benefits of 40%, or a cost increase of 67%, would reduce the NPV
to zero, or the ERR to 10%. Benefits could be reduced if there is less
participation in the project than expected, or if yields fail to reach
projected levels, or reach them later than anticipated. In any of the above
cases, the ERR is unlikely to be reduced below about 12%. It is unlikely
that costs will rise significantly.



- 22 -
Risks
77.       Since neither the Bank nor the Philippine Government has supported
such a large systematic development effort in a single region-before, the
project's main risks are institutional in nature. Project design has
attempted to minimize these risks, but it is recognized that new systems of
budget and administrative control would take time to consolidate under the
evolving process of regionalization. In upland agriculture, the Region's
poor agricultural resource base requires that innovative measures of soil
conservation and upland farming be introduced so that there are also some
technical risks. While the technology proposed under the project has proven
effective, much of it within the Region itself, it remains to be E?-n
whether existing "slash and burn" farmers can be transformed into permanent
settlers r'nder the land stewardship program being introduced under the
project and maintain stable enterprises on small plots over time.
78.       Land occupants at all sites have expressed strong interest in
participating in the project. The prospect of long-term stewardship over
their land is a powerful incentive to join the programs. The settlers are
also attracted by the proposal to reward labor for conservation and rehabi-
litation works with payments in-kind, and by the opportunity to be
introduced to, and advised on, new production technologies. The project
provides adequate management resources and support services to achieve its
objectives.
PRT= V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III Annex III.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOINATIONS
al.      I rec: wend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachseats
Wasbingtou, D.C.
November 10. 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                                          AE24 -  aNe KI
TA3LE 36
NWEPrpI3              -SOfI  DOWATRS UATA s
mm ~                    l c3uD     CIMIE   AVERCES)=
osr                    CISr &ZCur ZSEMAIE) /b
1960&      197AtA  1                      PACL! Lr. uaMR              
am CtM    3. noO
TOM                              300.0       300.0      300.0
ACE1cm.1113M.                     wa9s      104.0      109.2
Cup mmCl c     CUSS)                160.0      260.0      790.0            10286                   2088.2
(KMOARAS OF CAL EQIIaEr          159_0      333.0      380.0             792.1                  1407.6
POPULAOM111-U*Z CTMOUSAiS)  27396.0    3688.0    6955.0.
033*1 POPULATION C, Or =TOL)      30.3       32.9       36.7              3ZL9                    65.0
MOPULALTIW IEOJEcrZiss
POPULATIO  Ig YEAR 2000 OIL)                          76.6
STATTMU POIULATIOW CN0L)                              137.2
TEAR SUTIOUl P0p. ZEAD                                2105
POPUL.ATICW DSSEX
PEm sq.  .                      91.3      122.8      161.0             260.7                    35.6
PM 5Q. QL ACRI. LW             277.3      356.3      662.3            1696.5                    93.7_
POWILArTIOW ACE STRC1U3RE CZ)
0-14 IRS                       *C.6       *5.5       C3.6              39.6                    *0.1
25-66 mm5                       52.        51.6-      53.3              57.2                    55.8
65 AND ADM                       3.0        2.9        3.1               3.3                     6.1
PopULATIO  cE13ll RATE CZ)30                               7
m                                3.0        3.0        2.7               2.3                     2.3
1133                             6:*.1      3.8        3.7               3.9                     3.7
NUmR Imx  CPU ?10S)          6.7       44.0        33.9             31.3                     31.5
IO DEaT  aT CpGEEt ToS)           14.6        9.8        7.3               9.6                     I.1
GRCE   WE00ULIGS RA=E              3. C    3.1           2.3               2.0                     2.0
?rAPMET PLA*131r.
A rIS. A*L. CTOS)                 ..      191.7      375.0
CZ or MARRED __mE                 --        2.0   *      O0      *      6.6
11318 OF OWO 3100.1MR CAP=T
(1969-71-100)                    102.0      101.0      126.0             125.2                   113.0
PM CAPR    S7MlY OF
CALORS (0 a Or mnEmh )          99.0       99.a      116.0             114.2                   111.3
NEO s (ClC NM DAT)              46.0       *8.0       53.0              57.9                    67.9
OF WDCR *Mma  ND PiLs?         17.0       19.0       21.01c            14.1                    3461
sA CAeS 1I4) DEATH EAT            13.8        7.9        4.3               7.6                     5.3
LrE MSFCrC  AT 33213 CTEAlS)      52.8       59.0       63.2              60.2                    66.6
ZWAX PK. NATM (PER  S)           105.8       75.0       53.0              6.1                     6Z.6
ACCS TO SAFE WA3 (21O0)
TOMg.                             ..       36.0       43.Ofd            37.2                    6"-
URDW                                         --       66.07;i           SLS                     77.8
3Rom.                             ..         ..       33.071            26.4                    66.3
ACCESS TO EXCRT DSPOSJEL
CZ OF POPMATO1)
TOAL                              ..       57.0       56.0ed            41.6                    56.6
113331                            ..         ..       76.07r            47.5                    69.8
R03AL                             ..         ..        6.071            33.6                    29.8
POPULATION nZn PRTSICIAN        6960.0     9100.0     770 70 7m.9                               176o.0
POP. MR 363 150                     .      5390.0     600.0             2662.6                  1O1Z.2
POP. 133 HOSPrTAL MD
TOMAL                          21nO.O     820.0       560.0,.         X0D7.2                   477.0
113343                         560.0      390.0         ..             651.1                   667.5
L                                 ..          .         ..            259.9                    1921.6
Aors0 E PESRITAr BC                 ..       30.0                        -27.0                    27.2
uMMC
*Ae146 SUE OF HMWSEIMD
TOM*1.                           5.8        5.9
113313                           .*         6.2
Rmu..                                       5.8
AVeR1GI N0. OFr PERSOES/k03
TOTAL                             ..        2.3 -
URBAN1                           .-         2.1
3113*1                            ..        2.6
ACCESS TO ILt. C' o DOU2LI5)
TOTAL                           16.5       22.7       36.0
cum1                                       59.9        32.6
KRA                                .        6.7        10.0



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNRM I
- 25 -                                              P.age 2 of 5
TABLE 36
mL SIwIs              - SOCIAL XIDZCTS DATA  SCzrr
FNU.IPFZUES               RIFUamEIEE WD3EFS (CIrEWD AVEK45) Ia
1IST                    CfST ZRTI EsTsu.C) lb
t960!b  t 970!  FSlTglb            ASU & FCKFtC  I AT. AJK   6 CAI
ADjUSTM C8ALNEN tATIOS
FRmAU?  TaL                     95.0      106.0       110.0            101-2                     0S.O0
IULE                  91LO      115.0      *11_0             106_0                   106.3
FDE                  93_0      113.0      10.0              97.S                   103.6
SECAXT: 1SOrUL                  26.0       *6.0       63.0              ".9                     40.0
MALE                  26.0       52.4       51.0              50.0                    3:.6
FUVALE                25.0   * 9.0          68.0             64.6           *1.2
vOCeAIOIL CZ OF SEINAC)           16.3        8-91r     33.91e            13.5                    34.0
PUL-TEACUK  RAM
PRIAT                           36.0       29.0       30.0              32.7                    30.7
SEIal                           27.0tL     33.0       34.0              23.6                    16.7
ADLT LrratCT RATlE CZ)            71.9       *2.6       75.0              72n9                    79-5
pASSUtR CARPSIUSA  POP             3.2        7.6       1O.21              9.7                    65.6
RADIO   Pr  Z SITUSD      POP     21.9       40.7       43.S-            U317                    226.2
nT       r        Nf POP           1.4       10.9       20.7              50.1                   103.
KUSpAm C_AM.  RE.s
MNEREMT) C!UOCLATIOUG.I
p  nCmw POPIATI                  17.7       13.6       20.7              54.0                    64.
cEn AMuK A2TUDMA/CAPW              0.6th       ..        7.41/             3.6                     ..9
LAUB   LABOR FORC CT )         to95.0    1377.0    17667.0
FULEE (PmCu)                    34.2       33.1       32.3              33.6                    24.
ACICLZut CPERCEMT)              6t.0       53.0       46.0              50.9                    31.3
DuOSM  (PRE)                    15.0       16.0       17.0              19.2                    23.9
?A6?ICIFATIO RATE CPEUCF.ur)
TOTSL                           39.8       36.6       35.6              38.6                    31.3
NA=                             52.1       48.6       47.8              50.7                    49.6
FOULE                           27.4       24.4       23.2              26.6                    14.8
ECOSIIC  oENDECr RaTO              1.2        1.3        1.3               1.1                     1.4
1M DISUEM
rNEEr oF PRATE ItClE
RECEXVE By
atlIE!! 5o HO USENAS            30.1       211           .              2Z 2
H1013ST 20e ar HOUSEHDS         56.3       54.0         ..              48.0
La5Sr 2C0 0  SLOS                4.2        5.2         ..               6.4
Veas 603 Or 10D0S36S            12.0       14.2          .              15.5
ESTDIAL   A35.UTZ POMMZY II
LEME CUS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..                260.0             194.5                   289.6
RumE                               ..                195.0             155.0                   134.5
36TrIAu0 RfATIVE POVERT INCOPIE
LEML CRM   PER CAPT)
URK                               ..         ..      266.0             I9O                     519.3
RUL                               .          ..       00.0             154.3                   372.1
ESTDUAD POP. 3LO3   ABS.0
Polry 11cEm  LEVL Cl)
Una"                               ...                32.0              24.4
IR.L                              ''         ''        1.0              41.1
M Vr AILrAA
MDT APPLICAN.LE 
J  The sreep averages for each tndlcater are popa..lat loibted eritietic _n.n.  Cermse of Cetra  o       tin
Indiator. depena on availablity of data and Is -t uifeova
lb Unleu othezulse noted. Data for 1960- refer to  any yr bet.... 1959 ad 1961; -Dat for 1970- btwen 1969 OM
1971; ad data for -Ner lRcet Etlmte  et     1979 and 1931.
Ic 1977; Id 1975; to 1978; /f 1972; L. 1962; lb 1953.
my 19N3



BEST ('_!?Y- AVTAILABLE                                                                                                    ANNEX 
- 26 -                                                                                 Page 3 of 5
rIsEnoa wN flUL IStC-CmS
at1.tlaitt. I  -t rafeesc   ,-ep Mat the  acrcr  ar passtcctaeeaebe  arLtl-tt    -   far tatItaattsa                        s-Ly       -JO" sasir a  the  etra la
ataQ  eaw  ata ly lIr tadrais. Sthet th   cr _   i cerraa           h  tes-ar ta--da -  ab   althta  atta  e   r-t  0fos   --ca    eth
SEa tatmamact s' ~  ~       ILZ-                                                                   Ls,.        - aiada  ta- a  kr- cr  a%t  -aia
igi..  ate ism t-.                                                                     211Metca  rn %er-ta. tarm    - Pkaactett           b7  .aera  PMeeaaaae
darkesthara  - V., tmet atW-L-a.   r. oa amacrlec ,aaal                                    ac,adtmL. Wrtaatn.actte                       aw  ratct-- 
tarItrt P-atce-  marke ea-tam   ct              -  I-a  UZIta-  sits.                  .ari.g          --aaatw
erase, at tatahc tacadad thesIt  raeecaaae mew  a  hepl.ta  kic
ca  r  cr f ts)   a   a   .aaet etmacsrnmce pL-tcas-*                                  -rcIckl  ha ptile as  rrcocr  4e-r  -a  eratates   1aaetc  a
twlcaitet b   cawaralaw  rches - kri hark ftiaw C Lifl'4  healail                tebskiitatta   cet-ct. itaP&acim  -r   aai-s  pe etly ae  a
se - trtte. Sa-a? tmrtta           a. tMelat  br'lh at
rusJTy  .cwtt'rnta Pr Car. - h-tn   prrs  wewpie  tC-a                                       asLes?  --Prc  -c Peaeai atatta  hy a   ymrlsC t  yatsts
Pain? c.rflItma Sa  ititte  ptrate.sao-a  tR- WA  brea-.    laor                csit   ar.lot   et)Oa mete  amr-                     s   Lt~alo   d
lied. tilt,cot tiC dai.    "atbas herpLtalMsWw_z                                                L     esi   laiatcta  amra  eapist..acttota
I-W. OM. -d squ dete,_                                               -b- Wep ~~healatt..iot. -r: res  tWatrata -d d-cc  macet tae
flhrtcte 55tifaL crart.r:ab                                        tpeatltcat baartala arc latates sole  ster tot&l
brat taastttmt, etatear atlSettat -      atJaty I; itS  lilt. ad lit          nowta   r  aettOa     ah m,ae of adataue-h  r tce
--                                                                 tin  teapttetm darriet ha theWesP.M.  at -da..
take  lltslttt  Eryret a  caat)- lth.at ila  hacart SapoI.tt
tat ecat doisticasw   che-reawmea tart enperbt-ta  at tatd                     __sm-.____                &b           -LW~
retat fepattasa by ag   cat L- -   stthi ea1ait at tctt-                         theL.  eenhald taP-a--   ta  trasw
rates.Prajoeies weaacrc  tar   Arttt  totem tearam  at1 ace                    arac       co   rcaeaca ra .-tra.  eght,adrart eedg  ashe
eat_  th  prar   ta  fartiity rte a    heectl    bOrWe tS_aten et%pet
plattecrrte.aacc.Each  oatry  r the aatotmcs  bs                               resoasn?at   n et       ta-eta --atir   haitata    -&L.ec-   podnaae
cts ttaaa   -lt -"IW    fartltr  area ft, ta   gofjetias  y a.9                   ataact   tksa. td tea 4etiatw  te-pcatac pty.          d       ;M
icattastetmaa te -  Ia a acstoat psa_,-.Iasa thenFis -                                                                                             MO M
tacgLea .te  ratacma   ea   ?atUe-rtodrf   ae.da                                        rearMtaa ---Ittt aslc -s tawal   - Cr-a  otal mal ea-rZ
pe iaaca   am   a-titIL he reacted,C15                                            taeeaeoreatel -ir   aalr., ma tase-   - Cpas      ass  lear.cae
tern  ha.."tae,itirra 1 isadM IW- tne -4  abseta7     artatarla                            g ey -caimty   Las..
Loapmlatia-: dtime.W,iI ..... ai. tsr..tert-tece  tea. -b-tmce aSocade  -?rt  hd-c   ashti
taeate   rat eeIerea -tt. -aes trmstlrecw a  taat  lt-praer -at aaeaes W aecdeaab ee                                            rra at aP.e-rca tO  care
yer-d-ctst- tar             --" inc-at, tsIl-X5, a  iiiS4t1thapoi  temais.
PaasthtaohCreekhate rerceif  eflas - ne    aakrtsatea                               ssttcra.tr  frarceat - Literate-edstha(eki to- net -.I-  et    d-
paaadaa e019-e    scc,  tlith.aptcsae  atcL. Salt  eattra  e54tSrar   d  a
yet parotattse: Its. 1915, at iisi tars.                                          ttz   U f- _.                  -- _ _.ra t1-Led
Cret heath  sac tier t edotl  -       -&.-saapr heodaI   atya 2t1aaaI-el                    termber iheesa,,tmr-ltsl-rsrge  a.caro   sa
tasi  Pimaa - kasota, -cwa fbasets'I -                 v"t --F at."a. sr lsea.cl                ens ha ttai:dci far reet.  nan ea-  na heL    r        l  stf
penra                                                                                  Ta-.   t-g   '-&   f   -   ""L   eblact.  faetacd  saa5a)-T   eetrattheeeth
b-lic- PImoa-I laces (rted a  marce sotak. - oore..1mriegeecrsitr?inoa   ttahlwmraircetTrries
m  t htt.ecroraa   t-4crre    ehiaktarattaics i                  It atreasa  i   ar  darrettrtie  t?tmaaPOPt=etea
all married nee Ia sear cat mt...r.                                aa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k..aarr tlt..l,oc. 't .r Iesdcalara -ti cl -.th  aaIeea
rear at. rscrt.ei                                                                cicraicltMeaa t-f .1 at  tall  ierri tct-r.c   e .t?at--prata
t    Wr t'o  eatcio       slshii4''     ia  ee pet capitakraMII-O.I.. tamte  trsrtlarrrdt  raa   a.  th  aie
teat an  it=   acae   er  es          aas        oa  crisa_1.di0 t- ei  a.Cmm  tmlaraaa   r  Carat rttear- he at-Ig ma the  fLeh at.
ooaeeeraciaea  -1-sase bta  ace c:tltl pheat cs-iaa          . eaysas  .e.-Ia- aaeeeadelgteaar  mlte  aaasssa  tadae-h  tems
rat catca aani  ci alaae      -reract   ofrAwit.sma -.b C-ta  te bT&rPrrC be                                        - -Ia.eaaa-l -4im  temew   etdegsa
aetb  aiteaec  tac  e   apia  asehi-hia astcewabyyCper aspiref..        r   t-tmas at eo pplaed ha                       Meelt.u -L.wa.   aad  ota. cit. renl
asora  atcbt_ c0 slaks "           oappi~tc Per tota ease  tea t, mLs                    cedPacMShle  its1. iseL. . Ins tare.      L1-E 
jelnaiaseata.tee  praoasiag satI la-a Is thatriheisa                                     jaipyye-d           mltlke  ar       paee Kwt'.           a  lSr  O
actilaysatheaak  oetarit rntroasact eeea.t5 hly elaka-                      flames at pet -ne a reat =aa P.to,w; its, fiS, atiti data.
Paraclt  maryi at" U_V;   a-  crdn-Paah                  atatperca                         1-510 at iStI date.d61 -
Childac eatc  at3 adla RIi sr-a tbsadt he  eAl& reatehas  Iheo                            it.lilsa  liTar.- (thea  aE. -hed  lea td'  behtlata   --
tataa  rr- eahe-a oa  alc ist I,mtan par. day; ht-fI..11  ndl
0.1     a   -t; hahhrs(e   losmi              iteheprca5t                              W eld         isc  oae5bthI  aha   ie)-lclWth   aha 
sge atea  1-4 rerm, a. halttm am ae  a aiaee  ta WMet. teratgpces.rcaasteae   ara   'B' Pere,sa    ceoatprari
tocrs  tars darimtPI- lfe  ahia; lh-l hi  as  Stidat,                                 hmawt-
Iaaa  ttsah   at)  pot aheaas  - b ettatmat   hotact VPIWedec en                     stmated Italh rast laces e .e Cars er  deorts-d atl,s a.  ratl 
fea  ttaeuse Ioret   tacesta.)-tet aheladtat-atbssie  tacaetatpomaFaaatnotdheeiaoi  h  a
ente  aspty Ccctaca teata  asyateaste  ar  acasad bt                       lemate i-lthe Pasete Iac -  `L`erLLtc -d   atd-shw    tta
entatmaatd atertea- tat  te  ratcac haahoen,atreg.                       het rictn Paerr asr  ena  aoeasthod e -rrac  pe caIt
aalrr rta   a  eescaeatthi tbohta   oplaisa   a                                     ptretmot  tth  cnrt   ybo  et,a  ate-ra.aac-a
am atCayel-t-t-eeroaepaahcto   arereteai  erealatsrkS"'es  trhihr"ah.tIste  aare aed
corl.t- hear atpledtac~tal. aea,           trc)ara  b  ect



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
27 -NNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PRILIPPIESS - ECOVOMIlC IRMICKTORS
Amount
C(il1on US$ at                  Annual Rrotrh rates (:) (at constant prices)
current prices)                  Actual                  Est_             Projected
Indicator                       1981         1978   1979   1980   1981   198z    t983    1984   1985   1986   1937
NAFIO  a mCCMrS
Gros domestic product        38.876         5.9    5.9    4.9    3.8    2.9        1.9   -1.6    2.8    5.9    7.T
Agriculture                 8,765         4.8    5.3    5.0    3.6    3.5        3.0    2.0    3.0    5.0    5.0
Ind-try                    16.481         6.4    6.7    3.5    4.7    2.7        1.0   -4.0    3.0    6.5    8.5
services                   15.630         6.3    5.5    6.3    3.0    2.8        2.0   -1.5    2.5    5.8    7.0
consumption                  29.032         4.6    *.8    4.8    4.0    5.3        4.0   -4.7    0.03    6.Z    6.Z
Cra  ivestament              11.806         13.3  ,.4    1.0    2.3    0.5    -8.7   -5.7    7.4   10.2    9.1
Exports of GcYS               7.411         1.6    7.4   16.0    1.6   -2.6        4.3    2.7    6.8    7.0    7.1
Imports of GUFS              9.373        13.2   10.3    3.7   -2.9    2.6    -1.8  -12.4    2.2    6.5    6.T
Cress national aving          9.8"          8.3    7.7    3.4    3.1    1.2
PRICES
CD1 deflator (1972 - 100)                 210.6  249.4  286.9  319.3  339.5
Exchngec rate (0551 - 80)                  7.38    7.39   7.52   7.89   8.45
Export price Ldex (1980 - 100)            74.5   98.9  100.0   99.4   87.9    92.0   98.0  110.0  120.0  129.0
Iuport pric  Linde C1980 - 100)            69.3   81.6  100.0  112.7  101.6    95.0  103.0  113.0  123.0  132.0
Term of trafe Lndex (1980 - 100)          107.5  121.2  100.0   88.2   86.5    97.0   95.0   98.0   97.0   97.0
Share of GDP at market priees CZ)                Average annual inCreae (S)
(at current prices)                             C u(t conatant priem)
190   1970   1975   190   1985   1990    1960-70   1970-75  1975-H0   198l-85  19855-0
Groa  d omtic product         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          5.1       6.1      5.9       1.6      7.1
Agriculture                  Z8.1   27.8   29.0   23.2   Z4.3   22.0          4.3       4.3      4.8       3.0      5.0
industry                     25.8   29.6   33.5   36.9   36.1   38.9          6.0       8.6      7.6       1.0      8.8
services                     "6-1    2.6   37.5   39.9   39.6   39.1          5.2       5.4      5.7       1.6      6.8
Consimptian                  85.3   79.2   75.8   73.3   73.9   71.6          4.8       5.5      5.2  1_ 6          6.5
Cros investment              16.3   21.5   31.0   30.5   26.1   28.7          8.2      11.5      6.5      -2.4      9.1
Exorts of GcS                10.8   19.4   18.S   20.1   21.8   21.7          5.8       3.2     10.0       2.9      7.0
Imports of Gm                10.6   19.7   25.3   26.4   21.8   21.9          6.8       6.8      8.0     -2.2       7.*
Gross national saviogs       16.2   20.5   25.3   23.1   25.1   28.1          7.4       9.7      5.8       -        -
As 2 of GDP
1960     1970     1975      1980       Labor Force in 1978       !ilLons    C2)
PULIC FINANE                                                                    Agriculture               7.4     44.4
current re                       - 619.8       9.5     15.0      13.6         inldstry                  2.7  - 626.2
Current eapendttures                 9.6      10.9     13.2      10.0         Services                  5.6     33.0
Current surplus C.) or deficit (-)   0.2      -1.4      1.8       3.6         Uneployed                 .Ll      6.4
Capital expendture                   2.3       1.9      3.2       7.8
Forelgn financng                     -         0.1      0.3       2.3             Total Labor Force    16.8    100.0
1960-70        1970-75        1975-S0        19S0-85        195-
0lmg tUIhID-oasos
Annual GW grwth rate (O)                            5.1            5.6            5.9            1.3            7.3
Annual CP per capita growth rate CZ)                2.0            2.7            3.2           -1.1            4.7
Annual enerU  consmption growth rate CZ)            7.4            6.2            4.2            1.3            8.0
ICO1                                               4.5             4.7            4.6            4.6            3.9
sargia savings rate                                0.29           0.33           0.26           0.29           0.34
Import elsticity                                   1.33           1.12           1.20          -1.08           1.03
la Projected years at constant prices.
East Asia   Pacific Regionl Offiee
September 1983



BEST- COPY AVAILABLE
ANNX I
- 28 -                                    P ge S of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
CUSS mCllion. at current prices)
Actual                     Est.         Projected
1975     1979     1980     1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Sumary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services               4.838    6,177    7,863    8,624   7,837   8,440   9,330  10,859  12,526
Of which:  exports of goods               3.425    4,602    5,788    5,722   5,021   5,497   6,019   7,192   8,373
Imports of goods and services               6,323    8,108   10,348   11,389  11,683  11,255  10.920  11,908  13,539
Of which:  imports of goods               4,732    6,142    7,727    7,946   7,667   7,181   6,950   7,746   9,004
Transfers (net)                               312      355      434      472     498     520      580     610     671
Current Aecount Balance                  -1.173   -1.576   -2.051   -2.293  -3,348  -2,295 -1.010    -439    -342
Direct investment (net)                       171       99       45      407     292     290      350     400     432
llLT loans (net)                              891    1,091    1,032    1,382   1.721   1,714   1,607   1.622   1,764
Official-source loans (net)                 330      449      375      691     434   1.177     935     943   1,162
Private-source loans (net)                  561      642      657      691   1,287     537     672     679      602
Other capital (net) /a                         56    -193       593      -56     146    -60   -400  -1.000    -400
Overall Balance /b                          -55    -579      -381     -560  -1.189    -351     547     583   1.456
internacional reserves (end-year) /c        1,883    2,423    3.155    2,707   2,543
Reserves as months of imports                 3.6      3.6      3.7      2.9     2.6
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                          2914        2.134    1887    2.136   2.693
Concessional Loans                          117      185      168      21Z     176
Bilateral                                  56      113      107      198    T159
IDA                                         1        3        2        7       8
Other multilateral                         60       69       59        7       9
Nonconcessional Loans                     1.798    1.949    1.719    1.924   2,518
Official export credits                   122      152        8       58      66
IERD                                      163      210      229      441     251
Other multilateral                         47       81       83      119     125
Private soufces                         1,466    1,506    1,399    1,306   2.076
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            6,298    7.204    8.415   10,148  12.145
Official-source                         1,904    2.286    2.730    3,355   3.971
Private-zource                          4,394    4,918    5,685    6,793   8,174
Jndisbursed debt Id                       3,589    3,645    4,086    4,546   3,999
Debt Service
Total service payments /e                 1,284    1,480    1.013    1,560   2,048
Of which:  interest                       309      488      568      806   1,076
Payments as I of exports of goods
and servic-s le                          26.5    24.0      12.9     18.1   26;1
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                             5-5      5-5      7'4      7'7   14 4
Private-source                              9.1     10.5    14.3      15.5
Average maturity of new loans
OfficIal-source                            22.7    23.4    20.2       2.9    
Private-source                             10.2     11.1     10.1     10.0  {
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
7;  Equals change in net international reserves.
71  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
Td Public and publicly guaranteed only.
7T Includes prepayments of $401 million in 1978, $492 Aillion in 1979 and $92 million in 1980.
East Asia and Pacific Region
September 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX It
_ 29 _                                         P     1ag   of 2
21 STATUS OF ODAK GIP OPERATIONS INGTiE PEILIPINES
A. SrATENIT OF MM LOANS AND 111 CREDITS /a
AN of Septembir 30, 1903
Lan or
credit                                                                               _mant (less cancellatio)
nambr       PT   3o0rrmr                       P                                     aki      IDA    tUdisbur.sd
Thirty-faur loans and thre croudit  fully disbred                                    808.41    32.20         -
1035-P    1974  Sep. of tlh Philippines    Population                                25.00      -          1.65
lo8-F     1975                              Tarlac Irrlgtionc                        17.00      -          0.07
1102-PE    1975                              'Sem   Dvlopu_t                          25.00      -          0.55
1224-T-PU  1976                              Edcadtiao In                             24.73      -          0.U5
1227-FE    1976                             dOico Irrilaon                            50.00      -         12.97
12VZ-T-PB   1976                              Lnaila Urban                            10.00      _          0.71
1282-FE    1976                              Senila Urhen                             ZZ.00      -          1.50
1269-PU    1977                              Second Cain Procing                      11.50      -          0.02
1353-PF    1977                              Thblrd nLghemys                          95.00      -         24.57
1367-PU    1977              nlar Irrgtion                                            15.00      -          1.16
1374-PU    1977                              Feartb gducation                         25.00      -          4.80
139lt    1977  Central htuk of the Phil. Fourth Blral Cedit                           36.51i    -           2.43
1414-Fl    1977  Sep. of the PhilUppns    Ilt. Irrig. System  Irroamnt                50.00      -         26.87
1415-FE    1977                               ProVnKCla CLtiss Water Supply           21.78     -          0.86
1421-PF    1977                              SeI  DSe. land Settlmnt It               15.00      -          3.23
1460-F     1978  Setionel Paver Corp.        Seventh Fuer                             58.00     -          8.89
1506-PF    1978  Sep. of the Phlippiaes    Smlboalder Te bring                         9.00      -          4.63
1514-PR    1978  Philippine NatiSal Senk  PDC V                                       30.00     -          0.99
1526-Fl    1978  Sep. of the Philippies   SeC. IrrLi. System Ip0rosm11nt lI           65.00     -         43.02
790-PF    1978                              Smem  Infratructur                         -      28.00       16.07
1555-F     1978  PhilippieL Setoml Buak   FISO                                        15.00     -          0.75
1567-PF    1978  Sep. of the Philippines     gapt ll                                 150.00     -          10.45
1572-FE    1978                              IMetrial Inveetomt IlI                   80.00     -          12.72
1615-FE    1979                              Sntila ibter SuppLy TI                   38.00     -         53.66
1626-Fl    1979                              SLtionel Extension                       35.00     -         23.07
1639-PR    1979              -               Sbgt Rier Nultipurpose                   21.00     -          5.17
1646-PR    1979                              S_mIL hrmr Dew. (land hlub)              16.50     -          5.08
1647-PR    1979                              Second Urban Delop.nt                    32.00     -          13.15
1661-F1    1979                              DiShways IV                             100.00     -         73.07
1710-PF    1979                              W ater Supply II                         16.00     -          16.00
920-P1     1979             -                ktmr Supply lI                            -      22.00       14.97
923-PF    1979                              Population II                              -      40.00      35.74
1772-FZ    1980              "                Ser Iland Semi  Devmlopmnt              27.00     -         20.40
1786-PR    1930                              n Fiheries Training (Educ. TI)           38.00/c    -        30.60
1809-PF    1980              -               IbdiftiS5le lrrigatiln                   71.00     -         59.42
1814-PF    1980              -               Ibla Sewerage & Sanitation               63.00     -         44.79
1l15-F1    1980              "hinfed Agric. Dew. Clnlofl)                             12.00     -          7.94
1821-PR    1980                              Third Urbln                             72.00      -         49.56
185S-FE    1980                              Thrd  Ports                              67.00     -         45.18
1360-PR    1980                               Sral  ads Iront                         62.00     -         43.9B
189II      1981                              Veterrbed 1kagmant                       38.00      -        29.62
1894-PF    1991              "               Third Livestock & Fisbherl               45.00     -         26.06
1903-PR    1981              -               Structural AJdutmt                      200.00     -          1.33
1984-PR    1981  Centrzl huh of the Phil. Industril Finnce (Apex)                    150.00     -         137.21
2030-PU    1981   Rep. of the Pbillppivas   Elemutary Edne. Sector Lan               100.00     -         95.17
200-PU     1982                             Agric. Support Services                  45.00     -          4.69
2067-PR    1982              -               Urban Eaginmerlg                         8.00     -          4.13
2127-PR    1932                              TextLis Sector lrsotruetwr              157.40      -        154.35
2156-PF     1982                             Setioal Flsheries Developmet             22.40      -         22.07
2169-PR    1982                              Sil II                                  132.00     -         125.08
2173-PR     1982              "              Cmmanl Irrigation                        71.10      -        6.33
2181-PU     1982  Nttiotal Paver Corp.       Coal Eqaloration                         17.00     -          16.53
2200-P8    1983  Rep. of the Philippines   Education VIII                             24.40      -         23.84
2201-Pi     1983  Phillppines Yt. Oil Co.  Petrolsa Exploraion Proeotion              13.50     -          10.90
2202-PU1    1933                             Petroleum Eploration Promotion           24.00      -         21.94
2203-Ph    1983                              Geothermal Exploration                   36.00     -          31.82
2206-P1    1983  Rsp. of the PhLUppInes   Water Smpply and Sanitation                 35.50      -         30.87
2257-Pl/b  1983              -               Regional Cltien D evlopent               67.00     -          67.00
2266-niU    1983             -               Structura  Adjusttmnt 11                302.25      -        105.29
Total                                                                  3,866.97   122.20    1,676.55
of ubich bee been repaid
Chu and third parties)                                                 33544      0.28
Total nm outstanding                                                   3,531.53   121.92
Amount sold                                           31.94-
Of wbhcb has been repaid
(third parties)                                     25.37                6.57      -
Total na held by hhk and IDA
(prior to excb nge rate adjstEmnts)                                  3.524.96   121.92
Total undsbarsed                                                       1,60Y.77   66e7H    1,676.55
/l  The status of the projects listed In fart A iL described in a separate report on all Mh}/l,A-financed projects
in eueution. vbich in updated twsee yearly and circulated to thc Executive Directors on Aprtl 30 and
October 31.
lb Not yet effective.
7; Includis $7.6 million ECIAD funds.



BES ti 'P AVAILABLE
ANNEX II
30 -                          Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1983
Fiscal
year                  Company                             Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Dev. Corp. of the Philippines         15.0     4.4    19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -      4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.         3.7     0.8      4.5
1970 & 1972  M.riwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.             -      2.2      2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2     2.1      8.3
1972         M.rinduque Mining and Industrias  Corp.       15.0      -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.6       0.6      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2      -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial Corp.          7.0      -       7.0
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3     1.2      3.5
1977         Saruiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -       3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.    2.1        -       2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                    4.0     1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                       9.9     0.2    10.1
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business               -      0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gasest Inc.            4.5      -       4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMLE                 18.5     0.6    19.1
1981         Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp.   -        5.0      5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                      16.0      -      16.0
1982         NDC-Guthrie Plantations                       11.0      -      11.0
Total Gross Commitments                      136.3    23.4   159.7
Less sold, acquired by others,             84.0    14.5    98.5
repaid or cancelled
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC            52.3      8.9    61.2
Total Undisbursed                             18.80    0.03   18.83
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~   



ANNEX 111
- 31 -                        Page I of 2
PHILIPP INES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section  I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   20 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project: The Central Visayas Regional
Project Office, assisted by FAO/CP
(c) First presented to the Bank: March 1981/1
(d)  First mission to consider the project: October 1981
(e) Departure of appraisal: October 1982
(f) Completion of negotiations: October 7, 1983
tg) Planned date of effectiveness: March 31, 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
RPO's Board, through the Executive Director would:
(a) establiji. a revolving fund as a Special Account within the
Central Bank under the name of the Central Visayas Regional
Project (para. 67); and
(b) place in RPO an overall Project Manager with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para. 55).
/1 Discussions concerning possible alternative approaches to regional
development began in 1978; however, the outlines of the present project
did not emerge until the second half of 1981.



ANNEX III
-32 -                              Page 2 of 2
An Action program has been agreed with the Government to ensure
the establishment and staffing of site management units for the various
project components. (Section 3.06 and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement.) Most of the arrangements for implementing the Program are in
place. The immediate implementation of the Action program would ensure
that project activities would commence on schedule.



IBRD 17219
116    CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES              liD                                               I-                                              APRIL 1903
BSY GEOGRAPIIICAL RE-GIONS
NCR NATIONAL CAPITAL RERGION                                                                                  PHILIPPINES
I ILOCOS             VI WESTERN VLISVAS
I I ioco Norm   36 AkIon
2 Abr, Ne             39 cCAid                                              CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
3 I                   4e0 Sr  Antique                               B                                                                                 20-
- 4  oumnta=          42 Ngqroc Occidenhal                                                         Project   Provinces
6 Bniue           VIl CENTRAL VISAVAS
6 esnouat           43 C-ua                                                                                PROJECT AREA
7 Pa-n.m              44 Negru Orkieal                                                                       PROJECTAEA
31 CAGAYAN VALLLY        45 B0hol                                                       I0    MOR CITIES
BalM                 46 Slqulior                                                                            AIRPORrs
CIW   VIII1 EASTERN VISAVAS                                .7---ROAILAS
10 KmllngaAraava       47 Northerrn SanerALWY
11 Ilmbei             48 WestRN Souw                                                                          PROVINCIALBOUNDARIES
12 lfugao             49 EanernSnmr                               -A                                          REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
13 Nwva Viy           SO Ly t                                       Q                                -  -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
14 Oulidn              51 SouthernLe            LaoLeyt  1.
III CENTRAL LUZON      IX WESIERN MIINDANAO
15 Nuam EcU.          52 Znhbonp del Norte           I
16 Tarlac              53 Zun_bompdelSur           1     2
17 Z   namale          54 Bals n                                 ID
19 Panpma              55 SuIt                           r
e                  1~~~~~~~9 Bubun        56 TrdTrwi                      te -   
20 Balan             X NORTIIlRNSMINDANAU              3 I    1  4                                                1
IV SOUTHERN TAGALOG   57 Aguan del None  Son                     34
21 Aurora              58 AgTun del Sur   Fernand
23 RWIz                60 civnlpah.                                                                 0   JjID 0'2O    0
22 One,.,              59 BkiDd n '        0Ronb r      39J M14                           KILOMETERS  '  ,C  ID        O 200  250  30
16-    24 CaIhe               bl1 Mi6mi.OccidealrI
25 9 v                 52 Mmumis Oriental    L~MILES.                                                                            S        0
26 Satangas            63 Surfioodel Nan.                                                                     io '       0  21)20
27 Mmrlnduqe        Xi EASTERN MINDANAO   ;                 Jo2
29 Mlndoro Oriental    64 Dave del Norte       To           Jose
29 Mindoro Occidenl    b5 DIve) Orimutl          \1    4         a
30 Rombbmn             56 DCov  del Sur      Ange       iS  19
31 PIen,               67 South Coe  _         i               '122 
V BICOL                  6B Surigo del Sur O          2e0a      -23PHILIPPIIV '                                           E      SEA
32 Cffin  None    XII SOUTHERN MINDANAO                            !.A
33 Canarins Sur       69 Lama del Norte
34 Catandrunrs         70 Lamo del Sur                   2      Y J       c     -' s
35 Alba                71 Migueidunsm
36 Sawnogan            12 North Cotubwo             '  Lp
37 MSate      n        73 Sulttn KudUrat
SOUT'H CHINA
S EA                               :1         c~                 30):      .as
12                                                                        '           '        r                                                               12
31
tr   soco'a//  j A          I S                                       12--Gulf
a. Puerta
Proncesa
Se  Deaie                     _     Z,  >  targn
~~~~~~ ~~~~SUL U SEA_                                                                             _                                  8-
pr 
ETU NAM         ua                                                                                        ___                   ah c
ij   0   !:7   1-a                                                Jb -67? 
NAO~~;                          ~                            CELEBES      SEA
'-.-4        ,            C )                                                                         12W0                                                 128 ,X



