Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12433
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2360-PH)
OCTOBER 29, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12433
Type: PCR
Agriculture and Natrual Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Thi docuent has a etrlcted dsbutdion a  nday be und by reIpenI ony  the performance of
their officid duties. ls content may wN othew  be dbdosed   out Wodd Bak authoiaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Peso
Appraisal (1982) $1.00 P 14.00
1984 $1.00 = P 18.75
198S $1.00 - P 18.75
1986 $1.00 = P 20.50
1987 $1.00 = P 20.50
1988 $1.00 = P 21.00
1989 $1.00 - P 21.50
1990 $1.00 = P 25.00
1991 $1.00 - P 26.00
1992 $1.00 = P 26.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
ANR      -    Aist  Natural Regeneration
AR       -    Artificial Reef
BFAR    -    Bureau of Fisheries and Auatic Resources
CARP    -    Comprehensive Agrrian Progmm
CBFRM   -    Community-Based Forest Resour   Management
CFMA   -    Community Forest Management Agreement
CLET    -    Composite Law Enforcement Teams
CSC      -    Community Stewardship Contract
CVRP    -    Central Visayas Regional Project
CVRPO  -    Central Visayas Regional Projects Office
DA       -    Department of Agriculture
DAR      -    Department of Agmria Reform
DENR   -    Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DPWH   -    Department of Public Works and Highways
FAD      -    Fish Aggregating Device
FLMA   -    Forest Lease Magemert Agreements
FOSA    -    Forest Occupant Stewarship Asciaton
GOP      -    Govemment of the Philippines
HAD      -    Hillyland Agricule Development Program
LAA      -    Letter of Advice of Allotment
LOC      -    Local Government Code of 1991
LGU      -    Local Government Unit
LTTP    -    Land Tenure Task Force
MOS      -    Modified Disbursement Scheme
NEDA    -    National Economic and Development Authority
NCO      -    Non-Governmental Organiztion
PCR      -    Project Completion Report
PIDS     -    Philippines Institute for Development Studies
PMO      -    Project Management Office
RMAF   -    Regional Ministry of Agriculure and Food
RPO      -    Project Management Office
RRAC    -    Regional Resource Access Committee
SALT    -    Sloping Agricultural Land Technology
SMU      -    Site Management Units



FOR OMCLAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oft*ce of Otector-Generep
Operetlos Evaluatian                                                   October 29, 1993
MEMORANDUI1 TO THE EXECUTIVE  DIRECTORS AND THE PRSFIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Central Visavas Refiogal Prolect tLoan 23§0-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Philippines - Central Visayss
Regional Project (Loan 2360-PH). Parts I and IlIl were prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Offtce and Part II by the Borrower.
The project addressed declining productivity in upland and in-shore areas due to
environmental degradation, and the resultant poverty of the rural population. The project was to
demonstrate, on a pilot scale, replicable technology for other similar areas and to strengthen the
resource management capabilities of government, farmers and fishermen. Main components were
to provide secure tenure and a more stable production system for upland shifting cultivators, to
introduce community stewardship and reforest ogged over areas; to rehabilitate inshore fisheries
and allocate user rights, and to construct and improve rural roads and trails. During implementation
components were added for fishponds, livestock and rural water supply.
Implementation took longer than planned because of funding shortages, fluctuating
commitment as administrations changed, high staff tumover and security problems. Physical
results eventually met or exceeded targets and additional components were satisfactorily imple-
mented. Results were particularly good for the roads and water supply ccmponents where a
combination of labor-based construction and community participation worked well. Although
technology adoption rates were initially high, results for the production components were mixed,
wvith benefits well below forecasts. Problems encountered included unsuitable sites, uneven quality
of planting material, poor farm management, reduced farmer interest once subsidies ended, an
inadequate legal framework and prolonged drought.
The re-estimated economic rate of return is 8.2 percent compared with 17.5
percent at appraisal, although this lower figure does not include indirect benefits to the infrastruc-
ture investments (26 percent of project costs). The project outcome is rated as marginally
satisfactor. but with uncertain sustainability given that the initial subsidy-induced enthusiasm for
project activities has since waned, adoption rates have fallen and projected production growth
depends on additional government support. Institutional objectives of the project were only
partially achieved, in part because the ambitious plans were not fully agreed at appraisal.
The PCR provides a detailed account of the project experience but is enigmatic on
the soundness of the project design, government commitment, sustainability, replication prospects,
and effectiveness of participation. The Borrower comments that changes of the Bank's supervision
staff seemed to change priorities and that problems were caused by not all missions leaving Aide
Memoires.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dIsclosed wihout V'iotdd B snk authodIzaton.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT CONMLTON REPORT
PHES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIOLqAL PROJECT
LOAN 230-PH
Table of ContenS
hPe Nwnber
PREFACE                 .     ....... ...              .......                   .......  i
EVALUAl1ON SUhM&RY  ......................  ii
PART L PROJECT REVDEW FROM THE RANS PERSPECTIVE
A.    P rjaInit                                                              y .....................   1
B.    Badaond ....................d                                               .   I
C.    ProjeC Objectives and Doriptions .......................                        1
D.  ProjectDesign andOrnidon .            .....................   2
E.    Proje Iplmentation .....................                                        3
F.     Project Rsulbt .5...............................  S
0.    Project SustainabilitylReplability .......................  9
H. BankPerfn.mans .10
T.     BoowerPerfomance ...................  10
.7.    Project Rdatio ps ..................10.............                         . 10
ConsultingSes .......................                                                10
L      ProjectDocumetatonandDat  ................... 11
M.    Fiodings and Lessns Leuned .................... 11
PART It: PROJECT REVIlW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    CotryData   ...... .......................................... 13
B.     Evaluation of Bank's Performce and Lessons Learnd .13
C.    Evaluation of Borowe's Own Performe and Lessoos Leaned .13
D. Lessons Leaamed.                                                                  19
Ann  A, Evaluatio Of Poje  Componenets Performance
A. UplndAgricutu Compo .t.                                                           22
B.  NarehoreFishries ComWonent .24
C.    SocialFostryCompo        ..nt                                                  27
D. IdhastucturComponent. .28
E. Research .29
PART IM  STATEISCAL INFORMATION
1. RelatedBankLoansand Croft .32
2. PrjqectTietable .33
3. LoanDisbursemens .34
4. PqjectImplem  on ...io.                                                           35
5. Projet CosasandFnincig .37
6. ProjectResults .39
7. StatsofCovenas .442
8. UseofBankResour. 3.43
Anme A
1. TehnologyAdoption .45
2. HouseholdncomeByLevelofTechnologyAdoption.                                        46
3. Household Gross nomue By Year and Componaat .47
MAPS
This document has a rtrited dtibution ad may be used by raipients only In the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwis be disclosedwithout Word Bank auhoration.



PROJECT COMLETION REPORT
PHILU- ES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL  PROJECT (LOAN 2360-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Central Visayas Regional Project in the
Philippines, for which Loa 2360-PH in the amount of US$25.6 million was approved on December 6,1983. he
loan amount was formally revised to US$25.0 million on May 11, 1989 as a result of cancelaton of an unallocated
portion of the loan. The loan was closed two years behind schedule on Jue 30, 1992 following two extensions
of the closing date. It was 88% disbursed and the last disbursement was on November 3, 1992.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Agriculture and Natual Resources Operaons Division of
the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, the Asia Technical Deatment Environment  d Natural Resourcs
Division and the Borrower .
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supemrision mission of the proect in
July 1992, and is based, inter aIM, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; conrpodence between the Bank and the Borrow, intemal Bank memoranda; and evaluation
reports provided by the Philippines Istitute for Development Studies (PIDS) under contact from the borrower.
A dmft Pazt U was prvided by he Dorower in September 1992; a findal veon waa not reeeived pnit .o completion
of the PCR. The dnet vernon is  d.



PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
PLIPPNE3S
CENTRAL VSLYAS REGIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 2360-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Pfo3ed Ohjecdves and Deseriptions
1.     The project's objective was to improve the incomes and living standards of poor, small-scale producers,
particularly upland finmes and artisanal fishermen, through improvements in the management of forest, upland,
and nearshore habitats.
I.    7Te project sites comprised a total land area of 140,000 ha, a coastline of 200km and a population of about
200,000. The project itself consisted of five components:
(a)    Upland Agriculte;
(6)    Social Foresty;
(c)    Nearshore Fisheries;
(d)    lnfrastrctr and;
(e)    Support Sevices.
Project Design and Oranization
3.     CVRP I was the first foreign-funded project to support GOP's regionaliation programL  It proposed
administrative and fiscal reform and was designed around the pnnciples of (a) partictoy resource   _ t
by smallholders and (b) devolution of central power to the remion and local govenments. The project desigp
included a mber of innovative measu  including a watedred-based approach which extended to nearsb
fisheries and coral reefs, community organization as a basis for natual resource management, an emphasis on
poviding secunty of and tenure, prevision of pemits to alsow community magment of naura forest areas, tho
inoduction of hedgerow-based farming systms, promotion of agroforesty both on- and off-farm, introduction of
artificial reef, sustained yield management of mangoves, restrictions on rate of exploitation of fisheries, and set
asides of fish sanctuaries as nursery areas, among others.
4.     Design of the project was mostly successful. As a pilot project it established an approach to naturd
resource management in the Philippines that was successful in achieving coramunity participation, extending project
technologies, improving natwal resource management and increasing participant income. Tbe project's overall
ERR at full development for the production components is estimated to be 12.5%.
5.     Estimates of fuil development benefits asumed technical quality of plantings and mnteance which were
optimustic. Community organiation was relied upon to provide a framework for resource mangement without ful
understanding of the difficulties and limitations of this approach. Subsidies were expected to make project
intervertions sufficiently ttractive such that maintenance and replacement would be willingly bome by the fmrs
and fishermen. Difficulties of operating without a legally-authorized framework either for common property
managemet or privatization of public resources were undereimated, or it was assmed that the project would
generate sufficient political presu  to obtain the issue of approprate instruments by Govemment
6.     Hindsight, however, should not be overly critical. The design attempAd to combine approaches pioneered
by NGOs with a prtect of bankble scale and pace; and which offered technical approaches which, however
desirable on environmental gounds, are still largely unproven as profitable to most fames and fishem . The
high competence and morale of the project management unit was a prime fsctor in the project's successes, but
contributed to high costs per beneficiary and a reduction in the prospects for project sustainability.



iv
P'oJect Jinpleentation
7.     The ogingl titble  for implementation, though long by Bank standards at seven years, prved
unattainable. Project clomue was extended severWl times until project implementtion spanned a ten-year period.
Time was lost in startig up as stffing, aining and detiled planning were couducted ony after Effeoiveness.
Budgetary crie afflicted most of tho project's implemenation experience, with annual deays and shotfl in
bu t  releass of both countpart and IBRD-reimbusable funds. The project suvived a trion in cental
and local govenment administion, eacb tim at a cost in fime  quired to rewin support At various times tho
project experenced ha _msent from cental govemment officials, local politicians, from the Commission on Audit,
and from military operations against insurgents. On the other hand, over time the prqect came to hae strong
backing from tie provincial governors and other members of the Region VII Development Council. While project
data indicates that fargets based on area and participant household. were met and generally exceeded, the intensity
of planting and management by participants was lower than anticipated.
Project Rsults
8.     No attempts were made to quantify the project's extemal and unmeauable benefits at appraisa and it is
not possible to do sot at this point. Arresting eavironmental degradation was one of the main objectives of the
pject, which, in theory should be valued in the ERR. There are indications from project survey data that
degradationwould have increased in the absence of the projecL This suggests tht the tue ERRs of the project and
its subcomponents are higher than is estimaed here.
9.     The CV1IP was successfl in meeting its objectives of piloting a community-based approach to resource
management, in finaciaily benefitting the poor, and in arresting/slowing the rate of resource deadtion. As an
economic development project it could be judged, on average, as successful. Variabiity around the average is,
however, high.
10.    Financial returns to participating households are aractive. For all three compoant the houehold's
financial rates of retur are esimated to exceed 30% in the case of socia forestry, 40% for upland agriculture and
>50% for nearshore fisheries.
11.    Economic rens are variable. The upland agriculture, social forestty and nearshore fisheries components
hawestimated ERRs of 16.1%, 8.9%, and 3.1%, respectively. Theapparent contradictionbetweenhigh financial
rates of return to project patticipants and the much lower economic return to the project may be explained by
several factors, such as
(a)    subsidies to participants limited investment costs to households to labor alone and;
(b)    total production benefits are estimated to be less than one-nalf the appraisal estimates, in large pan
due to technical factors, e.g. poor germplasm, mis-matching of species to site, low management
inputs, and inadequate technical services for fruit crops.
Given low costs to the farmers, reasonable financial rers could be expected even from a failed plantatin.L
12.    Other factors reducing both FRRs and ERRs were : a) insufficient market incentives/access; which resulted
in farmers planting smaller than expected quantities of fruit trees; (b) institutional factors. e.g. inability to obtain
instuments providing secure tenure in a timely fashion and; (c) an inadequate legal frameork supporting coastal
communities control of access to and utilization of coastal resoures
13.    Upland Agriclture.      A 1989 impact evaluation found that over the period 1985-89 there had been
a relatively high level of adoption of project-promoted technologies. However, more recent studies (1992) indicate
that adoption rates are declining. The key technology was to promote conversion to perennial crops on sloping lands
with introduction of contour technologies in the remaining annual crop areas on lower slopes. Good examples of
total and partial conversion to perennial land uses can be found in all sites.



v
14.    Soda Forestry.     Throughout the proect implementation period the component suffered from delays
in provision of tenure instruments allowing access or mangement of forest lands; 70% of the totl Certificate of
Stwhip Contracts obained were prded during the last two years before closing.
15.    Some conservation impacts from the component are evident: (a) desirable changes in cropping systems;
(b) over the last eight years the increase in project paticipants' farm areas was about 50% less than that of the non-
participans frms; (c) 69% of those interviewed in the sites claimed tbat there was a noticeable decline in
deforestation.
16.    Neahore fsheries.        it is clear from the CVRP expenence that fishing communities can become
effective manage  of coastal resourcee when given the opportunity. Available fish catch data verifies that the
combination of habitat improvoment carried out by participants and changing methods of fishing can increase the
available resource and fisherman's income. However, it is also clear that control over access and use of the resource
is the key to improved productivity. Fisherman expetiencing increases in fish catch at4ibuted the increases as much
to minimized illegal fishing from improved enforcement under the project as to technological interventions.
17.    Infrastvctur.       This component was highly successful in providing developmenta support to the
other three components. It also undertook institui  strengthening activities in building capaity at the provincial
engineering offices to undertake and administer mural infrastructure projects, introducing community-based, labor-
intensive approaches to construction in the region.
18.    Other Components.       A wide range of activities in support of institutional development outside of
the project were supported including taining, reserch and an extension communications outreach component which
played an important role in fosteing community involvement and organization.
19.    Project funding was also utilized to support regional line agencies and to expand the CVRP approach
through the provincial governments with, apparenly, highly variable results. The Provinces of Bohol, Negros
Oriental, Siquijor and Cebu aU implemented mini-CVRPs with financial and technical assistance from the project.
These had modest targets, wnich in Negros Oriental and Cebu (municipality and province) were substantially
achieved. Siquijor achieved about 60% of its targets, Bohol about 25f%. Available information precludes judging
the success or failure of the works achieved. Slow release of funds was a severe constraint.
Project Sustainahilityb/Replability
20.   Tne project's net benefits foUowing closure wiU remain well below those envisioned at appraisal.
Undoubtedly, there is potential to increase project outputs and enhance benefits beyond what this analysis has
assmed. This would require (a) strong participant comnuitment to effective technical management, (b) adequate
provision for recurrent govemnment expenditues in training, extension, technical assistance and agrcultural/forestry
support services and (c) favorable market conditions for long term tree crps.
21.    A reasonable level of financial returns to individual households in the upland component was expected
throughout the project penod. Net farm income should continue to increase as tree crops maure. Assung no
change in the curent resource access situation, financial retums from the nearshore fisheries investments would be
expected to dwindle over time due to lack of maintenance and replacement.
22. Overall, the prospects for project sustainability are mnixed. For the upland components, certain basic
conditions have been met which suggest that sustainability is possible. The nearshore fisheries component isjudged
to be unsustainable under current conditions. Without means to control access within the nesrshore fishery zones,
project interventions will not be maintained.
23.    Some featurs of CVRP make it an attractive project for replication. Indeed, it is already widely replicated
both within and outside the region. The project receives high marss for effective dissemination of information to
participants. As a pilot, it has been a valuable, if costly, learning experience. For replication to be economically
viable, performance of the forestry and fisheries components would need improvement, particularly in the provision



vi
of technical and marketing services. In addition, both replicability and economic viability would be enhanced by
reducing manament overhead. Considerable effot to involve communties in plag and design and in traUing
and extension are required to replicate aod ieme this model. Timely provision of tenure instruments, and mnas
to control access within the nearshore fishery zones are also neoded.
Fdngs and Lessom; Laned
24.    More gradul and planned approaches to the conversion of individual farms to perennial uses is
tecommended. Conversion should be a medium- to long-term goal. In the short term, attention should be focused
on activities which prepare and esue community participation, respond to more immediate quality-of-life needs
and provide inm   first, and conseration as a secondary benefit.
25.    Monitonng and evaluation efforts which focus only on the effects on income of the immediate intervention
or tratment fail to fily capbte environmental benefits. Increases in yield or production do not necessarly equate
to incr   in overall resource productivity or provide verfication that a partioular intervention is financially or
economically viable at the field level. Monitoring and evaluation designs which capture these more difficult aspects
are sorely needed in order that the definition of stategies and approaches/technologies te achieve naual resource
management objectives will have some objective basis.
26.    Strategies to minimize subsidy payrents to individuals in order to effect changes in resoutce use pattms
are needed. EY,ective involvement of communities early on in project design may reduce the Oneed for
subsidy/incentive payments as may schemes to encourage investment in income generating activities and to procide
rural credit, e.g. community-managed revolving funds.
27.    Desiga of subsequent projects should move away from overstaffed project field offices. At present, two
individualspr bsrangay, on community organir and one upland agriculturalist/ntural resource speci, appews
to be preferable. Competent NGOs with a track record of commuity organizing could be contracted by local
govemment to undertake organizng and associated activities at each watershed site. What remaim unclear is when
to phs out community organizers and how to initially attract competent field staff to live in field sites.
28.    Tree planting activities, for timber or botticulture, must be the desiped around a program that enses
technical standards can be met. In frest management and fisbeies, a coinuous sampling/inventorying process
needs to be associated with the project in order to define the distrbution, abundance and productivity of the resource
in quesion, as a prerequisite for sound mnagement.
29.   In nearshore fishenes, the single greatest need is for legal mea  to control access to municipal waters as
well as zones within those waters. The legal basis for establishment of reef sanctuies should be simplified and
this apprcach widely promoted.
30.    Though artificial reefs rpresent a potentially very useful technoloSy, as currly designed, they are not
a financially or economically viable intervention.



PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
LOAN 2360-PH
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BAN'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Prect Idetty
Name                     :          Centmal Visayas Regiona Project
Lcan Number                         2360-PH
RVSP Utit                :E]ast Asia nZd Pacific Region
camtry ~    ~                 Philippinles
Sector                     A~~~~~~~~tgriculture
B.     Backgrund
1.     Sector Development Objectives.     At the time of project appraisal, the World Bank's agricultuze
leading to the PhilWines was focussed on expanding the irngation ystm  creit pro,-mm and other serces
to support aice production  Lending in the agriculta sector and for nrual development acounted for the
largest share of total Bank lending in the country. The 1983 Phibppine Agricultral Sector Memorandum
(Report 4318-PH) had placed haltig environmental degrdaton i forety and fishecies at the core of the
Bank's lending sty in agriculture. The Cenral Visayas Regional Project was a first exprsio of this shift
in strategy.
2.     Program Context.       Govenment was implementing its egionaliation policy, aimed at devolution
of budgetay and sdmistative functions to the regions. The five-year development plan (1983487) had set
general objectives of bigher growth, greater esoue mobilization, reduced income dispadties and improved
enviromental quality. The specific policy goals most relevant to the agricultual sector were poverty reductian,
continued rice self-sufficiency and more diversified tgricultural production. Governmet progrms included
land tenure reform, crop reseach, crop production progam  combmig credit with input supply and tehinical
support, rurl electrification, iigastion and roads.
3.     Linkages Bdween Pject, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives.     The project's objectives were
closely linked with a new Bank country sectoral sttegy and consstent with cetain macro policy iitiaives of
GOP. In its objective of halting environmental degradation, and in shifting attention to forestry, upland
agriculture, and small-scale coastl fisheries, the Bank was peraps ahead of Gove_nnt, thougb by the late
1980s Government share these concerns. Taken as a poverty alleviation project and the firs embodiment in a
project of decentalz  regiona plaing and management, the project was closely in accord with GOP's
sectoral and macro stategies. However, GOP did not have in place a macro policy supporting community-
based managem_t of natural resources or providing tenure on nominally public lands. While entirely new
tenure instruments wree developed in the couse of proect preparation and endorsed by GOP decree, strong
central policy support for issue of tenue insments was slow in coming and its lack proved a handicap to
project implementation.
C.    Project Objectives and Desciptions
4.     Project Objectives      le project was a region-wide (Region VII) pilot implemented within one
watersed in each of the four participading provinces of Bohol, Cebu, Negros Oriental and Siquior. A scia
foresty component was implemented in one amea of Negros Oriental. TI objectives were to improve the
incomes and living standards of poor, smal-scale producers through improvements in the management of forest,
upland, and nearhore habitats and by aesting the rapid dadation of the environmen  In addition, the
project was to reinforce the Government's regionalizfition plan to ensure great administati  and budgetay



2
autonomy for the Region, maximize financial accountability by project maagers and staff and, maximize
participation by local officials and project beneficiaries.
S.     Project Description.     The project sites comprised a total land area of 140,000 ha, a coatine of
200km and a population of about 200,000. The project itself cousisted of five componemts:
(i'  Upland Agcultumr - this component was to provide secure tenure to upland farmers and assist them
in tsferring from shifting cultivation of annual crops to more stable systems utilizing perennial crops
and livestock. The component covered fout watersheds in four provinces;
(b)  Social Foretry - this component was to be implemented on logged over forest wher slash-and-burn
cultivators had encroached. It had two man activities: forest stand improvement and reforestation.
Land stewardship agreements which provided secure tenure to the settlers were to be issued and various
inducements, e.g. physical incentives and technical assistance, were to be offered in exchange for
consevation work. The component covered one site in one province;
(c) Nearshore Fsheries - this component was to establish artificial reefs, teplant denuded mangrove
areas, and establish coral reef sanctuaries at four sub-sites in the four provinces. It included allocation
of use rights to cooperating faimlies. The component covered shoreline areas adjacent to thr  of the
upland agriculture sites (Bohol, Cebu, and Siquijor) sad the social forstry site (Negros Oriental);
(d)             e- to support the above three components and respond to more immediate community
noeds, the project constucted access roads/trails, village water supplies and small irrigati¢o works;
(e)  Support Services - this comprised institutional strengthening, training, technical assistance, and
resrch for agriculture, forestry, fisheries and aquatic resources.
D.    Project Design and Organization
6.     CVRP I was the first foreign-funded project to support GOP's regionalization ptogram. It proposed
administrative and fiscal reforms and was designed around the principles of (a) participatory resource
mnagement by smallholders and (b) devolution of central power to the region and local govemments. It was
implemented by the Central Visayas Regional Projects Office (CVRPO) under the guidance of a Centa   Visayss
Regional Projects Board composed of provincial governors and regional directors of key agenies. At the field
level implementation was through site management units (SMUs) composed of technical, communty
development and support staff quartered at the project sites. The project design included a number of
nnovatve measues including a watershed-based approach which extended to nearshore fisheries and coral
rees, community organization as a basis for natural resource management, an emphasis on providing security of
land tenure, provision of permits to alow community managemeat of natural forest areas, the introduction of
hedgerow-based farming systems, promotion of agroforestry both on- and off-farm, introduction of artificial
reefs, sustained yield management of magroves, restrictions on rate of exploitation of fisheries, and set asides
of fish sanctuaries as nursery areas, among others.
7.     Watersheds were selected based on regional development priorities, the relative poverty of the local
population, the degree of resource degradation, development opportunities including public land availability, and
interest among the local population in participating. The scale of *watershed' ultimately had to be adjusted
downward (i.e. from macrowaterheds or river basins to catchments of second and third order streams) in order
to define workable units that met selection criteria and because of difficulties arising from landlord's fears that
project works would establish a legal claim on land by their tenants.
8.     Design of the project was mostly successful. As a pilot project it established an approach to natural
resource management in the Philippines that was successful in achieving community participation, extending
project technologies, impoving natural resource management and increasing participant income. Though use
of inter alia key farners/fisherman, cross-visits, 'barefoot' technicians, farmer-to-farmer learning, production
of project-specific extension materials, and drama troupes the project was able to achieve high rates of
technology adoption (Annex m-A, Table 1). In retrospect, some design shoromings can be seen:
(a) greater emphasis was needed on involvement and strengthening of the local government units
and NOOs to assure sustainability;
(b) overemphasis on technologies with limited short-term income potential (e.g. fruit and foresty);



3
(c) beavy reliance on fruit trees without provision in the medium-term for extension advice on
their management and;
(d) over-reliance on high rates of subsidies *c, ncourage participation, e.&. provision of all tools,
planting materials, fertlizers, pesticides to participants.
9.      Estates of fuhll developnent benefits assumed techaical quality of plantings and maintersce which
were optimistic. Community organization was r0lied upon to provide a framework for resource .aia8gement
without full understanding of the difficulties and limitations of this apprwach. Subsidies were expect d to make
project interventions so attractive that mtenance and replacement would be willingly borne by the fimrs and
fishenmea 2. Difficulties of operating without a legally-authorized framework either for common property
management or privatization of public resources were underestimated, or it was assumed that the project would
generate sufficient political pressure to obtain the issue of appropriate instruments by Government. A desigr
flaw remedied to some extent by a mid-project revision of objectives and targets was the imposition of fixed
targets for adoption of technologies and approaches not proven economically viable at the field-level. This
targot-based approach was contrary to the flexibility implicit in a community-based resource management
strategy.
10.    Hindsight, however, should not be overly ctitical. The design attempted to combine approaches
pioneered by NOOs with a project of bankable scale and pace; and which offered technical approaches whicb,
however desirable on envirommental grounds, are still largely unproven as profitable to most farmers a-d
fishermen. By virte of the interprovincial and cross-agency nature of the project, the extreme wea;nesses and
corruption of local government units at the time of design, and the inertia of line agency field staff, there was
fittle choice but to create an independent project management unit down to the field level and staff it with
contractual hires. The high competence and morale of this unit was a prime factor in the prqect's successes,
but contributed to high costs per beneficiaty and lack of sustainability.
E.    Project lunpleutation
11.    The original tunetable for implementation, though long by Bank stndards at seven years, proved
unatanable. Project close was extended several times untl project implementation spanned a ten-year period.
Time was lost in starting up as staffing, tarning and detailed planning were conducted only after Effectiveness.
Budgetary crises afflicted most of the project's implementation experience, with annual delays and shortfalls in
budgetary releases of both counterpart and IBRD-reimbursable funds. The project survived a tramsition in
ceal and local goveatlent administration, each time at a cost in time required to re-win suppQL At various
times the project experienced harassment from central govermment officials, local politicians, from the
Commission on Audit (whose papetwotk requirements slowed disbursements and forced a buildup of project
staff), and firom military operations against insugents. On the other hand, over tme the project came to have
stog backing from the provincial govemors and other members of the Region VII Development Council.
12.    Major physical targets were essentially met or exceeded (Table 4). Overall project costs were 12%
below appraisal estimates due partly to the depreciation of the peso; initial cost estimates were good. Major
cost overrnms only occured in the nearshore fisheries (+ 180%) and training and technical assistance
components (+42%). For the former, cost overnms are explained primarily by higher unit costs (e.g. for
concrete ratier than the planned bamboo artificial reefs), addition of components that were not initially budgeted
for (e.g. fish attracting devices), and physical achievements which ranged from 30% to 60% higher than
appraisal estimates. For the latter, overtuns were primarily due to additional costs associated with the high
level of demand for services in support of other natual resource magement initiatives in the region, including
LGU and line agency personnel and the construction of a regional training center. The training center replaced
2 In the absc of subsidies, adop,on night lhave proceeded very slowly, however, adopted approwaches would probabl have
bee bewer mstained.



4
a regional research center which was abandoned from the original design as unsustainable due to a lack of
sources for O&M expenses. Slow procurement of equipment and vehicles (esp. through ICB) resulted in only
48% of these funds being drawn down. This was party due to reluctance on the part of the central goverment
to allow imports of the magntude envisioned as necessary.
13.    Significant savings were genemated in the infrastructure component allowing physical targets to be
greatly exceeded wbile stayig within budget (Table 4). The project engins designed and successfully
implemeted a new approach - community-based, labor-intensive construction employing force-account
magsement of organied community work teams - to road/trail construction and to water supply projects
which significantly lowered uait costs while meeting or exceeding the govemment's construction standards.
14. Major changes were made after a mid-term project review in 1986. Amuong other things, reforestation
and community foresty efforts were reduced or shifted to lower cost approaches (such as assisted natural
regeneration). Livestock procurement and dispersal proved difficult to manage so emphasis was switched from
procurement of new animal to redispersal of breeding animals. The decision was made to eliminate investment
in a goverment livestock farm as it was judged to be ineffective.
15.    Two fundamental design flaws occurred in the Social Forestry component: (a) inadequate attention to
the agricultural or agroforestry interests of a population who were mainly upland farmers and only margially
interested in forest management and; (b) initial staffing and guidance of the component by foresters who lacked
the most relevant skills. Additional, unforeseeable factors effected the Social Foestry component. In the first
years of the project, resident population doubled and forest area was reduced from 8,000 ha to 5,000 ha;
perhaps as an indirect consequence of inclusion of the area in the project. Given the rapidly changing situation,
mplementation was not very effective. With the mid-term review, promotion of on-farm agroforestry and
asssted nabtral regeneration (ANR) were added. Both components, despite the limited time, funding, extension
suot and technical assistance available, expanded rapidly and surpassed their physical targets. Unfortunately,
the rapid expansion overtaxed the limited cxtension and available technical services. The qlity and technical
standards of implemented works was thus below average to poor .
16.    Under the Social Forestry program, community-level forestry organizations (FOSAs - Forest Occupant
Stewarship Associations) were formed in order for forest residents to legally manage areas of existing forest
and provide for salvage of dead, standing timber (from a forest fire). The Bureau of Forest Development
refused to provide the required access instruments until a change of management in 1986. With the change, 18
Community Timber Utilization Permits were initially given. Before anymore were issued, the 18 were
cancelled following instances of live tree harvesting, apparently resulting from collusion of FOSA leaders and
lowland timber merchants. The underlying problem was considered to be that FOSAs had been hastily
organized by foresters untrained in community organizing techniques, with leaders neither selected by nor
reponsible to the membership. Despite attempts to rectify the inadequate organization work, the goverment
refused to restore permits to any of the FOSAs.
17.   In 1984 a taining and manpower component was identified in order to carry out the major trining
finctions inherent in the project's pilot approach. A technical outreach component, first funded in 1989, was
also added, in response to further central govermment initiatives aimed at decentraization. Out of cocern to
sustain prjiCt thrusts after closure, CVRP redirected part of its budget toward training of local govenmment
staff and added, with local govemment counterparting, 'e; pansion sites' staffed by local government hires.
The outreach component also had the task of translating CVRP's technical approaches and experiences into
extension materials to be disseminated throughout the region.
18.    One other unforeseen factor which affected implementation was the inability of participants in the
nearshore fishery component to adequately capture the benefits fom their labors. Municipal Fisherman's
Associations, with no legal rights to exclude outsiders from municipal fishing grounds or artificial reefs or
locally-created reef sanctuaries, had difficulty in obtaining cooperation of law-enforement personnel from local
or national govemment. Representations made by project staff, TA, and Bank staff to the central govemment
were unsucessful in obtaining issue of tenure instruments or changes in law required to correct this situation.



P.    Project Resuts
19.    ERR Calculation.      The with- and without-project cases, upon which ERR esimates were based,
were derived from  project data which looked at the production benefits of individual treatmts within the
specific area where the treatmet was applied. This allowed the estimation of production benefits only and did
not account for any broader resource mageomt impacts. Both benefits and costs from project expansion
sites were excluded from the ERR calculation, as these components were part of the projoct's institutional
strngtheing effort (see pam. 19(a)) and, in any case, available cost and benefit data is inadequate. Rates of
return were estimated and reported in two ways (Part III, Table 6b.):
(a)  as per SAR methodology (ERR = 8.2%) - based on the project's production and infratructure
components which comprised about 70% of project investment. The other 30% of project costs were
excluded as generating benefits either region or countrywide. These latter comprised costs for
research, institutional strengthening and training of non-project related govenunent personnel, and
ptoject preparation and;
(b) same as above with the exception that infrastructure costs were excluded from the calculation (ERR =
12.5%) under the assumption that the benefits of infrastructure are not captured in the project's
production benefits. Ifrstructure benefits would normally extend well beyond the production targets
and project participants and would contribute to income growth of non-participants' as well. As such,
inmfrastu      benefits are largely unquantifiable and the costs could be treated as self-justifying.
20.    No attempts were made to quantify the project's extemal environmental benefits at appraisal and it is
not possible to do so at this point. Arresting environmental degradation was one of the main objectives of the
project, which, in theory should be valued in the ERR. There are indications from project smvey data that
degradation would have increased in the absence of the project (e.g. para. 30), which suggest that the true
ERRs of the project and its subcomponents are higher than estimated. However, project monitoring and
evaluation activities were not designed to capture information on the indirect and/or non-production benefits.
21.   Results.       The CVRP project was successful in meeting its objective of piloting a community-
based approach to resource management, in financially benefitting the poor, and in arresting/slowing the rate of
resouce degradation. Baseline and follow up surveys indicate that about 90% of project participants were from
among the lower income members of the community. On this basis, it is esfimated that poverty objectives were
met. As an economic development project it could be judged, on the average, as successful. Variation by
component is, however, high.
22.    Financial returns to participating households are attctive. For all three components the household's
financial rates of return are estimated to exceed 30% in the case of social forestry, 40% for upland agricuture
and > S0 % for nearshore fisheries. Household survey data collected by the Philippine Institute of Development
Studies (Annex H-A, Tables 1-3) support the positive financial impact of the project, which, however, vas to a
considerable extent attributable to subsidies.
23.    Economic returs vary by component. The upland agriculture, social forestry and nearshore fisheries
components have estimated ERRs of 16.1%, 8.9%, and 3.1%, respectively. The apparent conhadiction
between high financial rates of return to project participants and the much lower economic rettus to the project
may be explained by several factors. In order of relative importance from an economic perspective, they are:
(a)  Technical - the majority of project benefits from the upland components were to be provided
by the planting of perennia species (fruit and forestry). Lack of attention to provision of
quality planting material, common failure to match species requirements to the proposed sites,
and inadequate extension and technical assistance for fruit crops made realization of the
appraisal's estimated levels of production impossible. Undoubtedly, poor performance of
planted stock would act as a further disincentive to both maintenance and expansion of
plantings.
(b)  Maet incentives/access - insufficient incentives and market access resulted in fiamers
planting smaller than expected quantities of fruit trees.



6
(c) Subsidies - the project supplied the majority of the physical inputs as incentives for
participation in the proect and in some cases (contract reforestation) provided direct cash
payments. As a result, individual investment comprised labor alone. lbus, even the estimated
low prction rtes provide a reasonable ntur to labor.
(d) lItitutional - inability to obtain instruments providing secure tenure at a more or less
uniform pace throughout the project placed tremendous demands on project resources at the
end. About 50% of aUl tenure instruments granted were given in the last two years; support
services were unable to meet the demand for technical assistance and extension. Failure to
obtain tenure instuments allowing mangement of existing forest reduced project benefits by
about $9 million at current prices and, in the end helped to force reliance on subsidies, and
reduced expectations of sustainability.
(e) Lgql - an inadequate legal framework supporting coastal communities control of access to
and utilization of coastal resources was a strong disincentive to management.
24.    Upland Agriculture.      The upland agriculture component comprised about 14% of total project
investment (excluding labor), vrsus an appraisa estimate of 17%. This component was expected to provide the
highest rate of return, which it did. The estimated ERR is 16.1% (without infrastmcture costs) versus an
appisa estimate of 17.7% (with infrastructure costs). The difference between the two can be explained by the
factors detailed above (para 23, (a), (b) and (c)). A 1989 impact evaluation found that over the period 1985-89
there had been a relatively high level of adoption of project-promoted technologies. However, more recent
studies (1992) indicate that adoption rates are declining. This was attributed to the fact that, over the last three
years, the project wound down and its incentives were diminished and field staff withdrawnL Project data
ildicates that households adopting two or more project-promoted technologies achieved significantly higher
increases in income than other households. Annex m11-A, Tables 1-3 provide furte information on tecbnology
adoption and impacts on income.
25.   Introduction of contour hedgerows for soil conservation, soil improvement and fuelwood and fodder
production were major components of the upland agoculture component. Hedges of napier grass (Pennisetwm
pwpurewun), madre de cacao (Gliricida seplum) and ipil-ipil (Leucaena keucocephala) were the major species
promoted. Napier grass hedges have failed in many areas due mainly to poor management, including
overgrazglovercuing without return of nutrents. This was further aggravated by a recent prolonged drought.
Madre de cacao hedgerows performed well throughout the project with the exception of sites with shallow, acid
or ultrabasic soils. Overgrzing on these sites led to almost total loss of hedge plants. Ipil-ipil hedges, where
well-established on alkaline soils (even shalow soils) have maintained their function well. In the few areas
where vetiver grass (Vetivena zimanioides) hedges were established they survived the drought well and flourish
even on the poorest soils. It is reported to be the most effective of the hedgerow species in controlling runoff
and erosion. In some areas it is established as a component in a double row system along with a fodder
species.
26.    The project's key to long-term stable sloping land use was conversion to perennial crops with
introduction of contour technologies in the remaining annual crop areas on lower slopes. Good examples of
total and partial conversion to perennial land uses can be found in aU sites. However, the inadequacy of support
services for horticultural crops is becoming more evident in all sites as fruit trees mature
27.    Social Forestry.     This accounted for about 7% of the total investment (excluding labor) or some
30% below the appraisal estimate. The lower investment amount is explained by difficulties encountered with
implementation (para. 29). The estimated ERR is 8.9% (without infastructure costs) versus an appraisal
estimate of 17.4% (with infrastructure costs). The difference between the two can be explained by the factors
detailed above (para. 23, (a), (b), and (d)). Concurrent with the forestry activities, the project achieved good
rates of adoption for on-farm conservation measures. Increases in participant income, on a percentage basis,
remained equivalent with non-participant income. Annex IIl-A, Tables 1 and 3 provide further information on
technology adoption and impacts on income.



7
28.    Throughout the project implementation period the component suffered from delays in provision of
tenure instunuts allowing access or management of forest lands; 70% of the total Certificate of Stewardship
Conacts obtined were provided during the last two years before closing. Although the pret invented and
extended tenue instruments for management of standing forest, the tenure contracts wme suspended after
implementation problems developed and these were never reinstated. At project closing the 27 FOSAs
organized by the project (comprising about 1,500 members) have not yet been granted access to project site
forest resources. Incidents of forest conversion to agriculture and illegal loggn were reportedly increasing.
Without legal access rights it is doubtful that the FOSAs will have any inceotive to protect the forest.
29.    Some conservation impacts ftom the component are evident. There are rported changes in the
cropping systems including increased density of fruit tree and farm border tree crops. Where non-prect fiums
increased in size by an average of 24% from 1984 to 1991, project farms increased an average of 13% in size
(expansion generally comes at the expense of forest). Based on interviews by PIDs 3, 69 % of those questioned
reported a noticeable decline in deforestaion within the project ama.
30.    Nearshore Fisheries.      This component comprised about 8% of the total investment (excluding
labor) which was about 180% higher than the appraisal estimate (pam. 12). The estimated ERR is 3.1%
(without infrast ictue costs) versus an appraisal estimate of 16.4% (with infrastructure costs). ne difference
between the two can be explained by the factors detailed above (pam. 23, (c), (d) and (e)). In respect of access
control (pam. 23(e)), as individual fishing households and groups were generally incapable of controlling access
to the increased fish population reslting from project interventions, the numbers of fishenman incresed and
tiere was loss of interest and a failure by fisherma to invest in maintaining or replacing the investmnts.
31.    Tables 1 and 3 provide survey data on technology adoption and impacts on income. Data from the
fisheiy itself that would aid in understanding the extent of the biological impacts and the implicatiGon for future
project design was not available. Using CVRP experience, a theoretical calculation was made that indicated that
a conservative ceiling cost for construction of concrete artificial reefs with a minimum 10 year life span would
be P125/m3 (US$ 5.00), providing an ERR of 14% from an incremental catch of 7kg/week (Note: an
incremental catch of up to 10kg/week is estimated to be sustainable). As most CVRP reef designs cost 4 to 6
mes as much per cubic meter and would requie twice the harvest level for economic viability, investments in
Ars do not appear economically viable.
32.    No accountg was made of sumvival of trees under the Nearshore Fisheries mangrove reforestation
component therefore it is not possible to comment on the success or failure of this activity. Available
information suggests that in difficult sites (i.e exposed to wind and waves with coastal erosion threateig
infrastructure) participants continue to make efforts to achieve successful establishment. Reintroduction of
mangrove snails and clams in newly established mangrove plantations appears successful. A careful review of
the CVRP mangrove successes and failures is needed. Factors such as substrates, mean water depth, exposure
to wave action and growth rates need to be analyzed to provide guidelines for future management activities.
Future mangrove activities should focus more on rehabilitation and protection of existing mmagrove rather than
just reforestation of cleared areas as rates of mangrove loss (esp. to illegal fishpond constuction) over the next
few years are likely to exceed any gains which might be made through planting.
33.    Twenty-seven coral reef sanctuaries were established under the project. Those established by local
officials by fiat or where officials would not support law enforcement efforts to maintain the sanctuaq, have
reportedly been abandoned. Most of the established sanctuaries are smaller than recommended (40-60 ha) but
they appear to be functioning well. A few were later enlarged by appreciative fishing communities. A
significant lesson from this component is that sanctuaries need not be first class refs to be effective, as
3 Penalba, L.M., 1992, Evaluaton Of The Cenmd Visayas Rgional Project-l Social Forestry Programn, PIDS Project,
November 1992. Page 21.



8
demonstrtd by 4 40ha sanctuary in Bohol. Only scateed coral heads are found, but followig protection fish
become plentifil. Tho main constraint to furher development is the uncertain legal st    of such sctuaries,
though the Bueau of Fisheries and Aqutic Resour  is allowing local govemet to estblish tdem without
interference.
34.     n     t            Comprising 26% of project invesment, approximately in line with  praisal
estimates, this component was ighly succesful i providig developmental support to the othr thr
components. It also undetook institutional stegthenig activities in building capacity at th provincial level's
engineering offices to undertake and administer nual infiratcture projects. This component was highy
successfdl.
35.   Implementaton of rural infrastucture projects through local govemment units was found to be efficient
and cost-effective, though conside:able guidance and financial discipline was provided by the CVRP PMO to
make it so. At the community-level, the organization of water supply project beneficiaries associations was
found to be an important pr-condition. By involving them early, tuining them in operation and basic
ma.ntenance of the system, they were able to bandle minor repairs and maitenance on their individual projects.
36.    Imnovative elements of this component included a community-based, labor-intensive approach to
constuction, used wherever possible to generate greater employment benefits to commuities. This requied re-
writing of consruction manuals and persistent efforts on the part of project engineers to bave labor-based
methods accepted by govemment engineers and auditors. This approach met quality standards and provided a
powerfiu community organizing tool by allowing the communities' naual leaders to be identified and through
promoting cooperation amuong community membemrs
37.    Traininhg, Research and Extension Communicons.      Training, research and the extension
communications outreach component accounted for 5% of total project investment. Generally the tang and
extensio components are considered to have functioned well in providing materials and information gSeed
towad promoting commnity-based resource mnagemenL Focused extension material aimed at providing
'how-to" pamphlets on aporiate technologies to trainers, extensionists, planners and policy makers was well-
recved. Curriculumt, materals development and training coursem for school tachs covering these same
subject areas was given a high raing by the regional education department. The cmponent supported 13
community theater groups to bnog project messages to groups of farmers, fisherman and schools uSing drama.
the component also tpped loed print media to spread project ideas. Overall, it played an impodtat role in
fostering community involvement and organiation and building political support and ownership. In 1991,
project documentation became a priority, using both wntten and audio-visual approaches which ultimately
proved important in providing inputs to project monitoring and evaluation. Earlier includon of this particular
activity would have been extremely valuable in providing institutional memory in an accessible form.
38.    The research component was designed to provide support to large-scae extension of watershed
management based on a farming systems approach and reinforce regional capability to provide effective R&D
on natual resource management issues. Much of the information generatd by the component consisted of
packaging information rom other areas rather than from specific sbdes and experences gained in the region.
Generally, trials and expenments undertaken were not sustained for a sufficient length of time to provide solid
rwecommendations though some well-focused studies duectly benefitted the project (e.g. identification of
alternative hedgerow species for acid soils and cassava varieties adapted to particular project sites).
39.   In addition, DENR provided specific services (e.g. technical assistance, provision of forest guards)
through use of the funds. It is doubtful that such an approach of fimding regional line agencies on a project-by-
project basis to engage extra personnel has any long-term viability. While the training aspects associated with
this component undoubtedly improved DENR service delivery to the project, it is not clear that DENR gained
any sense of ownership or interest in sustaining CVVRP achievements. On the other hand, the alternative of
ignoin;g DENR and other line agencies, and using only direct project hires, would clearly have been
unsustainable. This dilemma is common to interagency or area development projects, and constitutes one of
their main dawbacks.



9
40.    Support to the Department of Agdiulture was to assist them in upgrading their capabilities to provide
support services to the project and its expansion sites. A total of about 4% of project funds were provided to
DA for use in upland agoculture (soil and moistue conservation, livestock production, agricultural
diversification and off-farm refoesation), nearshore fishery activities (law enfrcement and extension) and
construction and equipment for a laboraty, grenhouse and groundwater well. Details of physical
achievements under this compoaent are contained in Borroweres Part 1, Annex B - nsitutional Strengthening,
Table 1. Whether such an approac would be desirable for ftu  projects is moot as implementation of the
Lal Government Code of 1991 has devolved both the Department of Agriculture personnel and responsibility
for agricultural extension to the provincial and local govemments.
41.    The ret ainig 12% of funds went to the provincial govemment's and Cebu City's expansion sites.
Details of physical achiavements under this component are conained in Borrower's Part nI, Annex B- Expansion
Areas, Table 6. In the absence of monitoring data and/or independent aessentb it is not possible to provide
substxtive comments on the success or failure of these components. Data for physical achievements provide a
vaiable pictue which still suggests that a laudable effiot is being made in the nw sites. All expasion projects
achieved their targeted a   coverage, except Bohol with a 67% achievement. Negros Oriental met about 100%
ot its physical targets and Cebu City achieved well over 100% (e.g. 400% for agro-foresty). The provinces of
Cebu and Siquijor achieved about 50% of their targets and Bohol about 25%. What is clear is that CVRPs
approach has become accepted by the local governments of the region; experience and capacity to further its
aims are being steadily built up. While a more focused effort is required to undetand where improvements
might be required, the evidence is strong that a good base for fuure resource mnagement activities has been
built.
42.    Project Management.       The total management costs incurred by the project accounted for 22%
of total project investments, very close to the appraisal esfimate. Bank supervision missioms throughout project
implementation generally gave high mars to the performance of project management units.
G.    Project Sustsi ablity/Repicability
43.    Due to previously identified constaints (pan. 23) the project's net benefits following closure will
remain well below what was envisioned at appraisal. Undoubtedly, there does exist potential to further increase
project outputs and enhance benefits. This would require (a) strong participant commitment to effctive technical
mn-agement, (b) adequate provision for recunt goverment expenditures in training, extension, technical
assistance and agricultural/forestry support servces and (c) favorable mret conditions for long trm tree
crops. To this end, local govemment would need to develop a medium-term ma*keting sategy for horticultual
crops.
44.    A reasonable level of financial retrns to individual households in the upland component was expected
throughout the project period. Net farm income should continue to increa  as tree crops mature. The extent
of increase will be highly dependant on the availability of technical assistan  and extension for horticultre.
Building such capacity should be viewed as a priority. Assming no change in the curnt resoure access
situaton, financial returns from the nearshore fisheries investments would be expected to dwindle over time due
to lack of maintenance and replacement.
45. Overall, the prospects for project sustainability are mixed. For the upland components, certain basic
conditions have been met which suggest that sustainability is possible. These are: (a) acceptance and
implementation of land tenuring as a necessay component of upland conservation programs; (b) establishent
of functioning community organiation with common resource mngement interests; (c) provision of basic
concepts and technical tools to local govemnment and project participants; (d) establishment of an effective
technology transfer system (e.g. key farmers, 'barefoot' technicians, etc); and (e) demonstration of some
technologies with beneficial impacts on farmer income and consemation. On the negative side, there is already
evidence of lack of maintenance of project works as the project winds down. The explanations that have been
given for this situation are the approaches to design and mnagement have not been truly participatory, removal
of subsidies, failure to provide for tecnical quality, and lack of adequate technical services to support f*lit



10
production. In the case of the social forestry component, the inability to provide tenum instrumts on forest
lands appears to have reduced the potential for sustainability of the componet's conservation benefits. The
nearshore fisheries component is judged to be unsusainable under current conditions. Without means to control
access within the nearshore fishery zones, project interventions will not be maintained.
46.    Some feaures of CVRP mke it an attractive ptoject for replication. Indeed, it is aready widely
replicated both within and outside the region. The projec receives high madr for effective dissemination of
information to participants. As a pilot, it has been a valuable, if costly, learning experience. While on average
it was economically viable as a project, it would be necessay to improve the performance of the foresbty and
fisheries components. To improve economic viability of the subcomponents, significant improvements are
needed in the provision of technical and marketing services. In addition, both replicaility and economic
vibility would be ewanced by reducing magement overhead. Considerable efforts to nvolve communities in
planning and design and in training and extension are required. The rate of future replicability may be
onaind by availability of trained staff and management sidlls in the region, despite the inreased numbers
with project. Tmely provision of tenure instruments, and means to control access within the nearshoe fisiery
zDnes are also needed.
H.    Dank Perfonnance
47.    The Bank worked effectively with the Borrower durng project preparation and apprasl, and thex
were numerous successfil innovations in project design over the long preparation period. In paticular, Bank
staff and cosltants played a key role in focusing the project on the community-based approach. Bank staff
was also belpful in strengthening the Borrower's capacity for project design and implementation. During
supervision the Bank made valuable suggestions on improving management and coordination of efforts between
the regional office and the site management units. Suggestions were often centered on improving monitoring
and evaluation, but the Bank was unsuccesful in persuading project management and field staff to focus on
these issues until very late in implementation. Supervision missions, in concert with project staff, identified and
overcame various tehnical problems in the project. The issues, however, of germplasm quality and technical
services for management of fiuit trees were not given sufficient emphasis by the Bank. The Bank was flexible
in alowing sensible modifications to the original plan such as the addition of the development commcations
component and expansion areas.
l.     Borrower Peronrance
48.    Project management had not previously worked with the World Bank, but earesy woed at adapting
to Bank methodologies. Performance during implementation vas exceUlent in term of commitment to project
goals. Tunovers in project staff caused some delays and confusion in implementation. CVRP became a
training ground from which a trained cadre of persomnel have gone on to work throughout the Philippines.
Those who remain in the region should be a valuable asset in future resource management activities. There are
oppormnities for improvement in analysis and design skills which take into account the economic aspects of
projects in addition to the strong 'fanrer perspective' that already exists.
J.     Project Relationships.
49.    Relationships between the Borrower and the Bank were generally both cordial and effective throughout
the project cycle. Some strain arose over what was perceived as the Bank shifting its priorities as a result of
changes in the composition of supervision missions. Good relations were built during project preparation and
later reinforced by the project's initial successes. During implementation, the good rates of adoption at the
field level wee recognized and gave both sides satisfaction and contributed their high levels of motivation sides.
K.    Consfting Swvices.
So.    Locally-based consultants played a critical role in project design and in providing training and technical
assistance to both the regional office and the site management units during the first half of the implementation



11
period. These consultants significantly aided the Bomower in adapting to Bank requirents for rtorting and
processing of Bank documents. Generally, project management was satisfied with consultant performance,
though the central office of NEDA raised the concemn that consultants were performing services that were not
strictly necessary, i.e. non-technical services that could be performed by project staff at lower cost. The PMO
was forced to directly hire staff who were formerly provided by a consulting firm. Given the increased
overhead and management difficulties of additional staff, cos' savings proved largely ilusory. The project
office reported that despite the higher unit costs for consultant services, they werse still cost-effective due to the
improved implementation efficiency.
L      Project Documentation and Data
51.    The project data base was well maintained and the borrower provided generly adequate data on
project costs. An excellent job was done on providing information and data on socio-economic impacts based
on surveys, the methodologies of which appear to be sound and provide a reasonable level of confidence. At
the project participant level, however, ongoing data compilation on physical impacts, financial performance and
benefits was lacking. Tis in turn mad! it difficult for monitoring and evaluation to raise a warning regarding
project economic performance. In genaz-l, benefit evaluations at the field level were incomplete - ignoring the
costs of project-provided incentives - and tended to rely on best-case yield assumtions despite visual evidence
to the conrary.
M.    Fidings and Lasens Leaned
52.    CVRP's system for technology hanser, comprising inter alia 'barefoot' technicians, farmer-to-farmer
tring, cross-visits, production of simple and practical extension materials, community organizing activities,
and use of drama was extremely effective. The high rates of technology adoption under the proect also suggest
that a large demand for information and technology exists among households in the project areas. Future
projec design should emphasize the software (information) aspects equaly with the hardware (technology)
aspects.
53.    Environment and natural resource objectives are not normally high priority or of immediate benefit to
communities, whereas infructure and immediate livelihood improvements are. More graual and planned
approaches to the conversion of individual farms to penial uses is recommended. Conversion should be a
medium- to long-term goal. In the short term, attention should be focused on activities which prepae and
ensure community participation, respond to more immediate quality-of-lif needs and provide income fiast, and
conservation as a seconday benefit. This would require slower, programmatic approaches rather than a project
approach where the pace of implementation is often forced by agency objectives which are incompatible with the
sustainability objectives.
54.    Monitoring and evaluation efforts which focus only on the immedte intevention or tratmet fail to
capture environmental benefits; increases in yield or production do not necessaily equate to increases in socia
productivity or provide sufficient verification that a particular intervention is financially or economicaly viable
at the field-level. Monitorng and evaluation components which capture these more difficult aspects are sorely
needed in order that the defimition of strategies and approaches/technologies to achieve natural resource
management objectives will have some objective basis.
55.   Stregies to reduce subsidy payments to individuals in order to effect changes in resoure use patms
are needed. Effective involvement of communities early on in project design may reduce the 'need' for
subsidy/incentive payments on the assumption that project interventions which truly represent the desires of the
participants should, by definition, require reduced external incentives. Lack of credit access among nual
households may also force the use of subsidies s- one of the only means by which house&l,ds can obtain
financial resource. Schemes to encourage investment in income generating activities and to provide rural credit,
e.g. community-managed revolving funds, are recommended.



12
56.    Design of subsequent projects should move away from the Site Maagment Unit approach, wherei a
largo number of project staff, complete with equipment and financing, ate assigned to key baransays. lis
aukes the emergence of local leadership and initiative difficult. At present, two individuals per bupay, one
commutity organizr and one upland ageiultualist/natwl resource specialist, appeas to be prefeable.
Competent NMOs with a track record of community orgaig (which exist in Central Visayas) could be
contcd by local government to undertake otganizing and associated activities at each watershed site. What
remains unclear is when to phase out community organizers and how to attract competent field staff to five in
field sites.
57.    Tree planting activities, for timber or horticulture, must be the designed around a progrm that ensues
the suitability of the species for the proposed sites, provides quality germplasm, creates incentives to ensure
good nuzseiy practices and provides technical services for establishmt and mangement. In forest
manage_mt and fisheries, a continuous sampling/inventorying process needs to be associated with the project in
order to define the distribution, abundance and productivity of the resource in question, as a precodition for
iroved mngement.
58.   In nearshore fisheries, the single greatest need is for legal means to control access to municipal watUs
as well ss zones within those waters. Uniform sets of municipal ordinances could be developed and enforced if
coupled vith some form of tenure security. Coral reef sanctuaries are one of the easies methods of reducing
fishing pressures on reef areas and sugmenting local fi stocks The legal basis for establis t of
anctuaries should be simplified and this approach widely promoted.
59.    Artificial reefs repsent a potentially veiy useful technology. However, with curent designs, they are
not financially or economically viable. Should this constraint be overcome, investment in ARs would still be
undesirable unless effective legal mechaninsm existed for restricting access to and harvest from ARs.
Maniculture as practiced under CVRP (small scale, low technology) appeaus to have very limited potential. Far
greater benefits can be gained for the majority of fishennan through management of existg wild stocks.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
hIPPES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
LOAN 2360-PH
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM JOORROWR'S PERSPECTV
A.    Countr Data
1.     The country data in the attached Annex B  reflects the project status a completion and was prepaed
by the project nagmet office (RO). Included are relevant inforation from terminal repors submitted by
participan line agencies and from accomplishment reports of provincial resoue manmet comnmatees.
B.     Evaluation of Bank's Performae and Lessons Learned
2.     Bank pennel and mission mmbers, with whom the project had official contact and formal physical
woidng rlationships, permed their toles  isactorily as professionals in all respects. The proect benefitted
fiom their direct involvement and recomdons. There were occasions, however, when the composition of
Bank missions canged and the project manement staff noticed that the Aide Memoires resuting from such
visits were written with the resective bias of the writer. As a result, priorities tended to change also. Such
changes somewhat kept the RPO staff offbaance. A review of all the Aide Memoires prepred since the start
of project impletion will show this to be true. The length of time between missions star*t at intevals of
6 months between 1985 to 1987; varied between 5 to 9 months between 1987 and 1989; and lengthened to 11-
12 months f*om 1989 to 1992.
3.     Except for a visit by financial sector staff on 27 March 1987 when RPO staff p ared an aide
memoire, no Aide Memoires were prepared coverig visits by the Bans fince personnel. In one insance,
due to this lack of documentation, RPO followed what was undersood to have been agreed on, based an notes
taken down during one-on-one discussions, but the bank's representi  dened this. An Aide Memoire could
have prevented this from happening.
4.     The major lesson learned is that there should be more frequent formal comnicatin between the Bank
and the Bofrower as a matter of policy and practice. Mission personnel chanes affect to some extent poject
implementatio. Aide Memoire should be prepared for each and every round of discussion with Bank
representatives, particularly on financial matts.
C.    Evaluation of Borrowers Own Performance and Lens Learned
5.     Evaluation of the perfonnance of the different project compents is attached as Anmex A. Ihe
performance of participating line agencies and institutions were notable in the following respects (what worked
and what did not work) detailed below
6.     Deputent of Agricldture.    The Departmet of Agriculture (DA) Regional Office, then Regional
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (RMAF) is part of the bigger progmm on Institutional Stengthening (IS)
under the project. Institutions, including DA, were envisioned to be strengthened with the following three
principal objectives:
(a)  to enable the provision of seiized services to project site management whee   requied;
4Tis DeAnX, conisting of dto Stau Repost of Physial Accomplishment (6/92); Physica Tat and Accomplishment (1989
92) of ExRansion Sites; Physcal Targets and Accomp1ishent (1986-89) CVRP; and Fical Staus Report (6/92) are oatd
in the project fs.



14
(b) to enable line agencies to regulate the use of the region's resources at the project sites and in areas of
greater vulnbility; and
(c) to enable line agencies to better respond to regional priorities.
7.     Such strengthening from CVRP-l would take the form of the funding for additional staff, additional
buildings, vehicles and equipment, technical assistance and training.
8.     For its part, under the approved MOA, the DA shall on one hand provide spport services for CVRP-I
implementation in the areas of soil and water conservation, livestock production, diversified frnning system
and upland agriculture research. On the other hand, DA was also supposed to provide leadership and assistance
in the organization of Composite LAw Enforcement Teams (CLET) to serve the CVRP-I nearshore fishery ites,
provide information on current mangrove/nipa area utilization and list of Fishpond Leas Agreement (FLA)
holders with authorized fishpond size, as well as grant duly prepared and favorably related fishery ordiances.
9.     At the onset of the IS program, upland agriculture development was a relatively new role for DA,
considenag the very limited investments actually provided by the DA in upland ares due to sevral intemal
institutional constraints.
10.   With due regard to the national DA policies and programs and in recognition of the immediate need,
the Regional DA laumcbed their own Hillyland Agriculture Development program  (HAD) in response to and
with assistance from the project The step was considered a giant leap, as the regional office was then receiving
one of the smallest budgets of aU DA offices because of the atypical agricultual resources of the region,
offering a very small proportion of lowland areas where DA's major programs are applicable.
II.    The HAD program shifted 60% of the DA's budget and manpower to the development of upland
agriculture in the region, utilizing the microwatershed approach by the last quarter of 1987.
12.   In the CVRP-I sites, meanwhile, DA was able to provide the required specialized extension manpower
services (tem) although in much lesser number than targted. Most often, these teams were observed to bave
operated in relative isolation visa-vis the site staff. While the arrangements worked for a time, it was tather
short-lived in regard to provision of some expertise. Generally, it was not susainable since the people hired
were contractuals and their and their services termiated with the phasing out of the IS progrm funding from
CVRP-I. A few permanent DA staff exposed to the program and to the pilot project sites were also pulled out
and assigned to the DA's expansion areas as well as to their other programs. Althou paps beneficial to
DA in the long rn, gtanting that they replicate CVRP-1 approaches, this move proved to be somehat
detrimental to the pilot sites even if they were able to eventually cope with the manpower shortage.
13.   Understandably, upland (biUyland) agriculture as a new and challenging endeavor of the department,
which extension services and activities for the past decades dealt only within the lowland ecological zone, is
both a difficult and tedious process to operationahize the shift in their regional mandate.
14. As a result of a more comprehensive evaluation in 1985-86, upland agriculture research took a major
shift in implementation, as it involved not only DA and DENR but other regional institutions undertaking
research and development, when CVRP-I opted to form and establish a consortium for the Central Visayas.
From its evolution until CVRP-I's phase out, DA had actually taken the lead role in managing he consortium,
composed of 12 other agencies/academic institutions. DA as the lead agency provided the services of a multi-
disciplinary research core group who initiated upland agriculture researches utilizing the farming systems
approach and with maximum farmer participation.
15.    Tbe consortium will be tuned over to DA upon the phase out of CVRP-I and will continue to be the
recognized R&D consortium in Central Visayas under the national R&D network of the Philippine Council for
Agriculture and Forestry Resources Research and Development (PCARRD).



15
16.    In nearshore fisheries, the Bueau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR), which has become an
integWal part of DA, generally managed to organize and actively lead the Composite Law Enforcemt Teams
(CLET) in the various project sites and the provinces, in close association with the CVRP-I SMUs. BBFAR
has been able to sustain these with the coopertion of other participating agencies. DA has institutionaized the
leaderip of CLET even with the phase out of CVRP-I.
17.    Oa territorial rights in fisheries, however, specifically on anificial teefs and coral reef suact
management, the proposed orders prepa    by CVRP-I for approval by national DA have not been acted upon.
As early as 1984, the project prepared a draft Fisheries Administrative Order (FAO) providing for the required
regulaktoy framework for        t of utifica reefs (AR) and fish sanctuares. Meanwhile, AR cluses
have been installed within the projects stes and manine sanctuaries have been established as paut of the
municipal coral reef management program.
18.    Until this time, despite various tepresentations made by the ptoject, the national DA has not isued not
approved AR fishing rights and coral reef sanctions to CVRP benoficiaries through an approprate administrative
order.
19.    The DA regional office, however, has supported the project in its involvement in the making of
resolutions on land tenure/resource access issues and problems; as it is a member of the land tenure task force
(now renamed regional resource access committee).
20.   lTe regional office has also adopted the AR program of the ptoject while collaborating with DENR in
minmizing mangrove desftuction. The destuction is minimized by limitiAg issumce of LAs (Fishpond Lea
Agreemnt) only to cleary feasible are
21.    Department of Environment and Natural Resouraes.       DENR Manila took about two years to
appreciste CBRM and support its implementation through its regional and district offices (at present, these ae
the regional, provincial and community environment and natual resources offices). From then on DENR
quickly picked up the CBRM strate or methodologies that CVRP pilot-tested in its project sites or
concepthuad from its experiences. DENR adopted with modifications: 1)the community-based contact
reforesttion under its National Forestation Progamn; 2)Woodlot Lease Agreement in its Forest Land
Management Ageement (FLMA); 3)Community-Based Forest Resources Management (CBFRM) under its
Community Forestry Progam (CFP); and 4)the Mangrove Stewardship Contract (MSC) as the Mangrove
Stewardip Ageement (MSA).
22.    DENR-7 also ably supported the resolution of land tenure issues/resource access in the project stes
through its Regional Executive Directo as Chairman and three (3) Regional Technical Dietors as members of
the Regional Resource Access Committee RRAC). The RRAC has successfully resolved many land
tenure/resource access issues (87%).
23.    Despite limited manpower and materis, DENR tried to achieve the targets of resource access
instruments to be issued to project beneficiares.
24.    DENR, however, failed to award the number of resource access in.ments it is supposed to issue.
No FLMA so far has been issued to project beneficiaries. DENR also failed to reissue Community Timber
Utiliastion Permits (CTUP) since their suspension after a new guideline had been prepared and the forest
occupants reoriented accordingly.
25.    Department of Education, Cutue and Sports.        CVRPO implemeanted jointly with the DECS a
project on integration of CBRM technologies and techniques into the elementry curicula (gades IV, V and
VI). This joint project initiated the institutionalization of CBRM into the DECS curricula and made CBRM the
basis in the formulation of elementary agnculture plans. ITe project has capacitated and ptovided adequate
training for teachers handling agriculture subjects in the elementary grdes and strenoened parenteacher



16
working elationsIps towards environmental rehabilitation and management since these are very relevant to the
livelihood concoers of the community.
26.    DECS's coopeation and enthusiasm in the implementatio of this project led to th prepaton of
handbooks in the teaching of elementa  griculture for gWades IV, V and VI. These handbooks, prepared by
teachers and DECS officials involved in the joint project, will provide school teachers sufficient instructional
mateials in elementay agriculttu with bias towards enviromntal protection and conservaton.
27.    Depament of Public Works and Highways.        Poject interventions included in the CVRP
Infrastructure Component work progmm and targets were unplemented by the Local Government Units (EGUs)
though the Provincial Engineering Offices and the Provincial planning and Development Offices in each
province. As such, Institutional Strengthening (IS) activities of the Project were focused only on these offices.
The VPWH, havig no direct involvement in actual ptoject implementation, was not included in the CVRP IS
program.
28.    The membership of the DPWH Regional Diretor in the CVRP Board, however, has paved the way for
he said office to, at time, take active paticipation in tackling infastucture implementation issues during Board
meetings/discussions. Thus, to a limited extent, DPWH bad some minor involvemet with the project. Such
involvement was mostly confined to the proision of technical advice on maters relative to instuctur project
prosecution, e.g., contract management, clarification on the applicability and/or interpretation of the provisions
of legisation/directives affeting infstucture.
29.    DPWH, though, has made an impotant contribution towards the copletion of the IS target/activities
of the Inratucture Component Upon CVRP's request, DPWH allowed CVRP infrastructure-implementing
units to avail of the taining in Marials Testing Technology, which only the DPWH has the cap- lity to
conduct. Such trainig program was identified by both the PEOs and CVRP as the most impoi  -. aang
need of the PEOs particularly for Bohol, Negros Oriental and Siqujor. DPWH used to acommodate only
employees fom their regional and district offices in all their training progams; however, in recognition of
CVRP's need and of the fact that the same would eventually complete the IS targets of tho CVRP Ifiastuctur
Componeat, DPWH gave ten (10) slots for the CVRP-sponsord PEO and RPO staff.
30.    But with the minor involvement of the DPWH in the infrastructure project implementatioe, the
memberhip of the DPWH Regional Director in the CVRP Board during the whole duation of the project was
observed to be unnecessary.  frtuctur   et implemeio was done through and by the LOUs, while
hi       ip  was premised on the original rural (CVRP-I) and urban (CVRP-II) proects Impl tion as
envisioned during the pro-implementation stage. Thus, if a second phase of this Rural project will push
through, the exclusion of the DPWH Regional Director from the CVRP Board may not be critical.
31.    Department of Agraian Refonn.       The project has developed a strong linkage with DAR-7
through the latter's membership in the Resource Access Commitee. Pursuing the Comprehensive Agrarianl
Program (CARP), DAR was able to fill the gap of land tenure security which DENR could nt cover. Ttled
areas within timberlands are supposedly finudulent as timberlands are not supposed to be titled unless declared
alienable and disposable. A land tide, however, is deemed authentic unless otherwise proven fraudulent in
court As such, DENR refrained from issuing stewardship contracts to prqect beneficiaries in these timbeiand
titled areas.
32.    The DAR covered many of hese titled timberlands under CARP. Th  tenure of the project
beneficiaries within these areas was secued through the issuance of emancipation patents, cetificates of land
ownership award, certificates of land transfer and sales patenfree patents. DAR-7 also strongly supported
RRAC in the resolution of many land tenure/resource access issues of the project.
33.    Civi Service Commission.      Employment contracts of govern ent employees are submitted to
the CSC for approval. With CVRP, the CSC Region 7 Office experienced the processing of appointments that



17
are renewed annually and for salaties that are 20% more than those of gar plantilla personnel with simil
positions. The CSC had no problem processing thews kinds of contac.
34.    Technical assistance and consultancy contracts, on the otber hand, need also to be submitted to the CSC
for approval. It is apparent that the experience with CVRPO on this is CSCs first. It is not sutprising
therefore that CSC did not know how to treat these second type of contracts. Although the DM, NEDA and
PFC agree that: CVRP consultants are not govezment employees, there is no employer-employee relationship
between consultants and CVRP, and consultants are not subject to CSC memo circads on wages and salaies.
Quite recently, however, the CSC issued an on kW resolution exempting CVRP consultants from the
Commisons' coverage, after almost 3 years of stdying th matter.
35.    Piovicial Governet          The implementaion of in ce6  proects through the provincial
govrmend (PEOs and PPDOs) proved to be working well and in a way effective. The provincial govemnuent
through its PEOs and PPDOs have the capability to implement rural infastructure projects. Mchaisms and
systems are already in place whether projects are implemented by admnisation or through conhacts. Although
govemment bureaucracy sbowed down im pl  tion and provincial interest sometimes affected project
implementation, the geneal experience was however satisfactory. Supervision and mangement capabilities are
also available within the Provinoial Governor as signatory to contas and other documents and the provici
Board providing authority to the executive branch to enter into contracts. The entire system is therefore
functioning in the single unit. The CVRPO improved this existing capaility to administer and supervise
projects.
36.    The existing RPO-LOU funds flow for infrastucture proects also proved to be wodkig well, can still
be replicated and is still expected to work in the future considering the full implementation of the Local
Government Code. Funds are released based on approved work programs. LOUs liquidate project fiuds being
released to them. Under the modified disbursement scheme (MDS), the LOU can obligate or eater into contract
once a letter of advice of allotment (LAA) is received from RPO.
37.    The Project encountered problems with thA MDS of the Departmt of Budget and Managmet. At
the start of implementation of the Modified Disbursement Scheme, the LOUs did not recognize the LAAs
released to them as authority to obligate disbursements or enter into conotac   They required the notice of cash
alocation (NCA) for the fulding check in obligating and entering into contract. DBM however, releases the
NCA in the middle of the year or during the later part of the year. Because of this, implementation of projects
woer cone the following year, causing so much in dippages versus infrnstrutre targets. lhe problem was
resolved halfway through the prqect perod after a series of consultations with the DBM and ent of
Finance (DOF, the mother agency of the Provincial Treasurers).
38.    National Economic and Developoment Authority.    The Nation  Economic and Development
Authority, partcularly the regional office, was actively involved in the identificaion and proect prepaation
stages of CVRP-I. In 1983, the CVRPO was created and the project was able to hire full-time staff to
undertke its implementation. NEDA's involvement in the project contiused through its membhip in the
project's various cormmittees/task forces and the CVRP Board. Consultancy and other contracts were submitted
to the NEDA Central Office for approval on a 'no-objection" basis. The NEDA Regional Executive Director
was also the CVRPO Executive Director. Although this appointment was perceived to be improper by other
sectors, and law (after the cbange in administon in 1986) by NEDA Central Office itself, the period when
this was so was the period when CVRPO had the most barmonious relationsip with both the NEDA Cenral
Office ano NRO-7. Contacts and other matters submitted to NEDA were acted on within two weeks.
39.    The change in administtion and the subsequent change in development actors in 1986 translated into
an unstable working environment for CVRPO staff. This was attributed maily to an alleged differece in
opinions regarding regional development and other past petsonal gmdges between the CVRPO Executive
Director and a then newly-installed senior official in NEDA CentrA Office. It could also have been caused b
the witch-hunting activities of the 'new democrats' in NEDA who, unfornately, considered all government



18
employees at that time tainted by the Marco administration. NEDA officials lewis argued that the prqect
was too expensive and the project office superfluous, not to mention extravagant.
40.    CVRPO was transfierd to NEDA in 1987 for the latter to study and recommend *appopriatp
dispotion and supervision for CVRP-I. CVRP mtters imcluding conbact review were handled by the Prect
Monitonng Staff of NEDA Central Office which unfortntely had different view from and were not as famlmiar
with CVRP-l operations as the oer NEDA divisions which handled CVRP matters before 1986. Tlis resulted
in conflcting pronouncements and decisions which further coutrbuted to CVRP staffs confusion and
apprehension regarding the project's continued implemetation and the CVRPO's continued opemtion.
Furtemore, isse referred to NEDA for action took one to thre months to be resolved, contributing to delays
in project implementation. A change in NRO-7 Director started NRO-&s becoming openly critical of the
project. The NEDA Director General's statement of plans to dismantle CVRPO did not help the situation any.
All these seemed to underline a perceived NEDA objection to CVRP-I.
41.    The CVRPO was able to weather these difficult situations through the support of the CVRPO Board
Chairman who took up the cudgels for the project and exhibited mastery in brinkmanship in dealing with these
stuations.
42.    On 17 July 1989, Executive Order 363 transferred CVRPO to the Regional Development Council,
which became responsble for overall direcon, coordination and supervision of project implementation. Th
same EO reconstituted the CVRP Board to include private sector representatives. These moves provided the
project with valuable allies whose support canceDed out the efforts of the project's detractors.
43.    Rmurce Access Committees.        Genorally, people are not wiling to develop and manage weDl
those resources which do not belong to them. Security of tenure greatly affects the decision to adopt desirable
resource umnagement practices. The project therefore placed much importance on the issuance of resource
access instments in the forestry, upland and coastal areas.
44.    Te project workde closely with BFD (Bureau of Forest Development) now absorbed by the DENR and
BFAR (Bureau of Forest and Aquatic Resources) now under the Department of Agriculture as most tenure and
aces instruments are within their jurisdiction. Other agencies were found to be interlinked with DENR in its
tre an access uistuments issuace fuction. This is especially tue with DAR (Depatmen of Agraan
Reform) which covered titled timberlands under its Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Plan (CARP) and
COSLiP (Commission on Land Settlement and Problems) which is involved settling land tenure issues. These
agencies, together with the PAO (Public Attomeys Office) and NEDA, were or_gazed into a regional land
tenure task force (LTTF). With financial support and a strong secretariat, L1TF suoceeded in the resolution of
land tenure issues and problems within the project sites. Through LTI'F, issuance of resource access
instrwuments improved, especially in the uplands.
45.    Concentrating on land tenure concerns, LTTIF was not designed to address manne resourcs issues
especially on user's right for artificial reef, fish attracting devices and marine sanctuaries. The LTTF coverage
was then expanded and the task force renamed the Regional Resource AMcess Committee (RRAC). In line with
CVRP's provincialization scheme and cognizant of the provincial level line agencies staff and local government
officials capabilities, RRAC organized functional Provincial Resource Access Commite  (PRACs) in 1991.
These PRACs allowed the RRAC to concentate on issues which are  gional in nature and scope.
46.    The attainment of resource access had gone a long way. it could be meaured not only on the number
of instruments issued/awarded but also on the number of beneficiaries involved, positive changes in attitudes of
the fainers/fishermealforest occupants as well as contentment and improved commitment of the govenment
persomel involved in the resolution of resource access issues.
47.    The RRAC is another proof that an interagency approach can work and decentralization lightens the
load while covenng more ground.



19
48.    Development Administration Task Force.     The Development Administion Task Porce of
CVRP is composd of reprsentatives from the Department of Budget and Management, Presidea
Management Staff, Bureau of the Treauy, Project Facilitation Committeos, DBM and COA. Ihe Task Force
Wus ceated to resolve issues that involve severa agencies and us canmot be addressed solely by one agency.
Most common of these issues are conflictiag memoradum citcudars of different gover t agencies, differt
interpretation of provisioas/stipulations of rules and regutios and lack of or unclear implementing guideines.
When presented to the Task Force, these are usually resolved by the issuance of either a new memorandum
circular or a joint MOA by the agencies concerned
49.    The Task Force has been quite effective in resolving issues presented to it. However, for issues that
are too small to wart the issuance of memorandum circulars or MOAs, Task Force decisions are not
necessarily implemented by the agency concemed. This is particularly tme about  ta/decisions on
issues that involve COA auditors and the CSC. just as the Task Fore could not compel auditors to implement
aeements reached durng meetings, it likewise could not hasten resolution of the "consultants issue pending
with the CSC for almost three years
D.    Lesons Learned
50.    On conslkaM. While consulting firms may cost more and individual consultants equie less fund
allocation, the apparent cost-effectiveness of the latter is offset by the former in gains in implementation time, in
reducing recruitment time for individual constants and specialists, in reducing bureaucatic red tape, and in
monitoring the activities of such people. Attention needs to be focused only on the output of the coting
fir, whereas to follow up the output of tens of individuals requires that administraive resources be assigned to
this activity. A trdoff in the utilization of project resources occurs, therefore, and false economies  slt.
51.    On  ainin an mower develoent. Sustainability of the project is highly reliant an the degree of
transformation of the project community and its individual membesh in terms of inteltion of the kowledge
and skills acquired in CVRP technologies' application, and degree of commitment to continue the movement to
save, develop and protect their environmental resources. This can be done more efficietly, more effctively,
and more thoroughly, through a comprehensive but relatively inexpensive program of environmental education
producing thereby a core group of resource mangement specialists (RMSs) and barangay resource management
thnicians (BRMTs), adequate in number to cover the region. As the well-spring of such activity, the Central
Visayas Regional Resource Management Traning Center could be made into a national trainig center to
produce the national requirements for RMSs and BRMTs.
52.    On equipment requirements. A number of specialists should be utlized so that each major paticipafing
instittion's equipment needs and corresponding specifications are thoroughly reviewed before ICB is conducted.
The Bank should exercise its authority to determine, on a need basis, the kInds and numbers of specific
equipment which each implementing/participating institution/agency should be allotted for project purposes.
53.    The project, in phase 2, should continue to have a centtal coordinating unit IRPO or PMO1 with clearly
sttd rsponsibilities and authority throughout the life of the project. It need not be a large unit.
54.    Formnately for the project, the CVRP Board, throughout project life was composed of development
oriented members, chaired by no-nonsense admiistrators. Ptoject management was able to carry out its role
and functions with little or no problem from this quarter. Some changes will, however, occur in the Boad's
composition as a result of the last election, that of the chairmanship and one member's seat If one of the
curent members become chaiman, two member's seats will have to be filled. Whatever may happen, it is
anticpated that no major policy shifts will occur, and that the Board will continue to be supportive of
management until project termination.
55.    COA rules/renulations are deemed to be reasonable and logical. It is in their application by auditors
that advers effects are noted. Individual auditors have different inteapretations of sid nrles. What one auditor
may pass in audit, the succeeding auditor may overule. One auditor may be very helpful and enhance effective



20
project operations while another hinders nonnal operations. One auditor lets a few centavos get by as it will
cost the government more to recover them, but another would issue suspensions involving just ten centavos.
One auditor operates on trust, another on complete mistrust, that is, everyone is considered a potential crook
unless proven otherwise. A way should be found to eorient the bulk of our auditors on the proper way to cany
out their functions without jeopardiing project implementation.
56.    While local government units for the most part have been cooperative in implemention of phase 1,
project management may not have addressed satisfactorily the matter of           and teir
intenalization of CBRM implementation strategies. Assurances of sustainability at this point apply mainly to
project site barnngays. Phase 2 project design must therefore include further strengthening of LOUs and the
desired  telizaton of CBRM strategies and technologies as a major objective, connoting effective linkages
all around and unstinting support, moraly, physically and fnacially to project clientele. The latter requisite
should be given more impornce once project financing ends.
57.    RLAs have also been very cooperative during proiect implementation. There were times, though, that
technical and field personnel of line agencies felt threatened by the presence of project field personnel in their
area. This should have been expected, because precedent projects have shown this to be usual reactions,
especially if the project is better accepted by the target beneficiaries. Memos of agreement between line
agencies and project managemient should spell out in some detail how project personnel and line agency
personnel should interact, proact, or otherwise work together for the benefit of the people; and how and why
the line agency personnel siould take over fully the mantle of responsibility once the project ends.
58.    Pnoiect acceptance is gready facilitaed by requiring chanuge aents to reside in the barangay at least
during the first few years of the projecL This requires, of course, that the change agent, as catalyzer, must be
very well selected, be skilled in the application of resource management technologies, be trained intensively in
community organizing and public relations, and must possess a unique sense of commitment to his work. A
age share of the project's success can be attributed to this factor.
59. Community oarticioation in p;anninu and imulementation is one key to project success and
susWtainability. This was manifested in all barangays which have since shown measrable and significant
accomplishments and thereby given the appellation "premier barangays.  However, this key component shoud
be taken in the contest that it is accompanied by continuing good and innovative leadership.
60.    Simple and angronriate technologies are fundamental to adoption  Ukewise, lgffos teclogies
which are ecologically and economicallv sound enhances adoption. Technology transfer is thus facilitated when
these attributes are present. Finally, community and govermment need to get their acts together so that adoption
becomes a certainty.
61.    Resource access. Generally, people are not willing to develop and mange well those resources which
do not belong to them. Thus, security of tenure greatly affects the decision to adopt desirable resource
management practices. The project, therefoare, placed must importance on the issuance of resource access
instruments in the forestry, upland and coastal areas. A regional land tenure task force was first created to
address this issue. It succeeded very well in solving land tenure problems within the project site. However,
becase land tenure issues commanded center stage for resolution by the task force, resource access problems in
mangrove and other coastl areas were necessarily left unattnded to. The solution was to expand the coverage
of the task force and rename it the Regieonal Resource Access Committee. This committee now includes in its
coverage issues on user's rights in the nearshore fishery areas as regards attificial reefs, fish attracting devices,
and sea farming.
62.    The watershed concept as adopted by CVRP-I. What happens in the uplands afficts the people and the
environment in the lowlands and the coastl areas. The vatershed approach was therefore a very wise move on
the part of the project planners. CVRP-I's success may therefore be partly attributed to the adoption of this
approach. it may be apropos to ask, therefore, why there are separate projects being assisted financially by the
Bank and another institution sans the use of the watershed in planning and impletation. Could these projects



21
oucceed in an isolate state, that is, are they assumed to be mutually exclusive projects? or that they would
have no environmental effect or impact on the rest of the watershed? From the project management's point of
view, project funds should have been applied to CVRP look-alike projects rather than the approved set-up.
63.    CVRPO's involvement with non-govemment organizatons was limited basically to people's
organizations or small indigenous groups in the community. CVRPO facilitated the establishment of these
gros and where there are existimg indigenous organizations, provided support to strengthen and develop these.
7bese various organizations oftentinmes served as the implementing arm for most community-based resource
manamt and development interventions in the project sites. However, these organiations still require
varying degrees of assisAnce and sbould be strengthened further to enable them to sustain their activities and to
deal with political pressures. CVRPO failed to tap early in project life, established, bigger and 'resource-rich
NGOs which could have assisted in sustaining and facilitating the growth of these small groups in the
community. The private sector, NOOs and foreign development agencies could have been asked to support
specific programs or project components with local counterpart support from LGUs as a strategy for fund
sourcig after CVRP-I phase out. This would have eventually lessened pnmaay dependence on government
support.
64.    To conect this oversight, CVRPO conducted a forum in May 1992 which provided the NGQs with
detailed information on the status, needs and tMiasts of tbriving indigenous groups in CVRP-1 project sites and
the opportunity to share their own learuings, priorities and thmsts. This comprised the project's initial step
towards networing among the established NMOs and the people's orgaions. CVRPO is assisting the
people's organizaiions prepare proposals for project sustainability for possible funding by patticipating NGOs.
65.    Cntrtion 8eMvsion is a requiment for lge goverment ptojects particuly foreignassisted
infrsuctue  projects. CVRP-I employed a contuction supervsion team to act as the Engineer of RPO. It is
mote or a.preventive measure in nature. The team ensured that projects are implemented accordig to RPO-
approved plans, designs, specifications and work programs. The team further provided tecbimcal assistance to
the implementing units in al matters pertaining to ifrastructure. This scheme proved to be effective. The
project has achieved its infrasuc    targets even with the consistently delayed release of funds which slowed
down implementation. The implementing units have completed better quality proects (roads, trails, water
supply)  mped to other rual infrastructure projects. Surprisingly, the quality of CVRP-I funded
infirasbucture projects even supassed these of the non-CVRP-I fimded projects of the implementing units. The
consituction supervision tam as employed in CVRP-I, can be a cosulting finn or an in-house team hired under
technical assistace. It should be emphasized that the team should bo under the supervsion and control of RPO
and not by the LGUs as it would defeat on of its puwposes.



22                                  Part u, A== A
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILiPPINS
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
LOAN 2360-PH
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
ANNEX A, EVALUATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS' PERFORMANCE
A.    Upland Agricudture Component
1.     The Upland Agdculure component is one of the major components of the Cental Visayas Regional
Projects-I. It is designed to develop and manage the upland areas of selected watersbeds in Central Visayas,
namely; the Badian-Alegria watershed in Cebu, Ipil watershed in Bohol, Bayawan waterhed in Negros Oriental
and the uplands of Siquijor. Its main objective is to increase the living standards of the marginal upland farms
and to rehabilitate and manage the fast degrading naunal resource base in the uplands. To attain such objective,
the componet introducd simple proven technologies to effectively control nm-off water, reduce soil erosion,
icrease soil otganic matter and improve existig landuse mangement system.
2.     There are six project interventions implemented by the component. These ate micowatrse planning
and implemention, agroforestry, community-based contract reforestation (CBCR), livestock dispersal and
redispersal, on-farm soil conservation, and upland fish culture. The issuance of rsure acces isuments is
the responsbiity of the Department of Environment and Natral Resources with CVRP-I acting as facilitator.
3.     The component also undertakes institutional strengthening activities intended to capacitate the extension
delivery system of concerned govemnment agencies implementing resource management projects.
bnuplemnentation Strategies
4.     Upland agriculture teecnologies are implented through ie Community-Based Resource Man t
(CBRM) approach whereby the entire community becomes an active participant in the planning and
implementation of resource management programs. In this approach, the component seek to transform the
marginal upland farmers into relf-reliant and productive members of the community.
5.     The component also utilizes the watershed approach in the plauning and implementtion of upland
technologies. Midway during the life of the project, the component adopted the micrwatehed approach in
planning and implementing soil and water conservation measures and for total farm development. Livestock
rising, upland fish culture and diversified cropping are integrated into the farming system for more diversified
and sustainable farm development.
6.     Provision of resource access instruments to upland farmers is also undertaken as a basic approach to
upland development. It asswures the farmers security of tenure for the land they cultivate, providing them the
right to mnage and utilize this resource base. The issueance of such instrument is done in coordination with
the Depatment of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and the Department of Agrarian Reform
(DAR). In upland areas, the major instruments issued are as follows: Certificate of Stewadship Conract
(CSC), Certificate of Land Ownership Award (CLOA), Emancipation Patents (EP), Certificate of Land Transfer
(CLf) and Forest Lot Management Agreement (FLMA).



23                                    it U, An= A
7.     Genally, all upland development efforts ae guided by the fundamental principle that any intervention
must conserve and protect soil and water resoure and be locally viable, fostering particpatoty planning and
implementation and be self-sustning, both economically and socia!ly.
ExperienIa Learning
8.     The Cntral Visayas Regional Projects, being a regional pilot project on resource mgement, has
generated some leuings which could be very useful for fuite resource manement-related projects. In the
Upland Agriculture Component a number of lnmigs and experiences which are worth mentioning are detailed
below
9.     Te overall success of the project depends on the extent that an upland fanner is able to intrlize the
knowledge and skdlls he has acquired and translate these into concrete action in the field. Thus, agroforestry or
miuowatesed development projects may not be sustaied for long without proper values, education and
orientation towards envoinmental protection and conservation.
10.    The microwatershed development apptoach in panning and implementing soil and water conservation
meaues was seen to be an effective stWategy for more sustainable fium development. Proper uilization and
management of excess run-off and diversified cropping is its main conoern. The technology is appropriate for
severely eroded uplands like in Siquijor where vegetative regeneration is a neoessity. Being a new technology,
there is a need for exta effort on the part of extension servces to hasten the technology adoption rate.
11.    The creation of the Barmngay Resources Management Committee (BRMC) under the Barangay
Development Council as a strategy could enhane sustainability of resource management programs implemented
within a barangay. The BRMC serves as the implementing arm of the barangay for aU resource management-
related projects intended for the baangay.
12.    Security of tenure of the uplanders is an overriding issue in upland development. Without this, there is
little incentive if at all, for upland farmers to uphold responsible and sustinable use of the resource base. The
provision of resource access instumnts is one of the unique features of the ptoject. The creation of the
Regional and Provincial Resource Access Committees (RRAC and PRAC) hastened the issuance of tenurdal
instruments and solution of tenurial conflicts.
13.   In some upland areas utilizing 'Alayons' or *Hunglus' was seen to be an effective strategy in the
adoption and implementation of the desired resource management practices in the uplands. These are
indigenouS small groups of upland farmers who undertake projects in the spirit of self-sufficiency and
cooperation. Labor-intensive farm activities, like the Construction of diversion canals, use 'alayon' to good
advantage.
14.    Gmelina, a broad leafed perennial tree, does not perform well in high elevations and wind-prone areas.
Evidence of such cases could be seen in reforestation areas in Siquihor whete Omelina is planted on mountain
ridges.
15.    Upland farmers do not give much attention to the use of vetiver grass as contour hedgerow despite the
recommendations of WB consultants. Although, vetiver grass is very effective in soil erosion control because of
its tufted root system, fanners prefer napier grass over it because the napier is good as livestock feed, while
vetiver is not. The learning here is that fames prefer to adopt dual-purpose creps.
16.    There is a slow adoption of upland fish culture technology which could be attributed to the following
reasons: l)topographically, Central Visayas is composed of smal' islands where fmers from upland barangays
still have access to saltwater fish; 2)because of steep, mgged and eroded land characteristics, uplands have low
capacity to impound enough water for fish culture; creeks usually dry up during the dry season; 3)traditionally,
upland farmers are not used to eating freshwater fish and prefer saltwater fish.



24                                 Pad n, ADa A
17.   Planning with the people should be basic in upland development. Likewise, intervenons should be
intoduced throuogh pilot demonstraions (demo farms) utilizing local, tustworthy catalysts who are avadlable
over a sustined period of time.
B.    Nearshore Jberies Component
18.   The Nearshore Fisberies Component is another major component in the implementation of community-
based resource management (CBRM) in wat d develeopment. Five site        t units (SMUs) of the
component operate in the municipal watest. Four are adjacent to the four Upland Agriculture sites in the fior
provines of Region VIZ. One is part of the waterhed in the Social Foresty in Negs Oriental. Major project
interventions implemented by the Nearshore Fisheries Component are resource rehabilitating activities which
include mangrove reforestadon of denuded mud and tidal flats, manament of existing mangrove stands,
construction and installation of atificial reefs, management of naural coral reefs, and establishment of
municipal reef sanctuaries. Minor prect interventions which are basically catch man ment activities were
introduced in the later part of project implementation when the coaal communities and fishermen had
developed the crt community ethics of managing the resource rehabilitating activities and the existing
neashore nrine resources. The minor project interventions include small-scale maricdlue prects such as
seaweed (exheuma) culture, shell culture in mangrove plantations, fish culture in fish cages, and oyster culture
and the installadon of fish attactng devices (FADs) within the municipal watems.
Genera
19.    A high degree of CBRM achievement in the adoption (by the communities and beneficiaries) of the
technologies for the rehabilitation and management of the natural resources upon which their livelihood depends
is assured when commuiities and beneficiaries are propetly organized to participate in the planning and
decision-making processes. Mobilizing the community to implement agreed project interventions becomes a
consequal effect of their participation. As a resut, organized communities and beneficiaries can claim the
implemented project interventions as their own, thus assuring sustainability of the project.
20.   Technologies to be introduced to beneficiaries shuld be appropriate, simple, replicable and low-cost for
easy adoptability. These technologies shoud use indigenous materials so that when repl_ement of maters
become necesary these are easily available in the locality. Previous experiences of similar nature co the
introduced technology will enhance adoptability by fishermen beneficiaries.
21.    Continuous education on human and resource development aspects is a vital factor in sustaining
commumity-based development activities of commuities and fishrm. Courses on human resoce
development, leadership, membership and organational development given to communities and beneficiaries
bave made them cohesive beyond the bounds of politics. Environmental awareness and technology transfer
through seominars and trainings enhanced the adoptability of resource management activities.
22.    Skilled comunity organizers or change agents living in the community facilitates community
development process. SMU field workers living and woring with (not for) the people provided oppotuities
for continuous exchange of information that would relate to increased level of environmental awarens and
faster adoption of resource management technologies by the beneficiaries.
23.    Autonomy in financial and operational management of implementing units such as the SMU hastened
the delivery of necesary inputs at the earliest time. SMU hastened the delivery of necessary inputs at the
earliest time. SMU level decision making in operations and disbursements supports site-specific needs and
requirements and allows innovations by fishermen-beneficiaries like the design of giant bamboo artificial reefs
(AR) in NSF Bohol as compared to the standard models.
24.    Cross-visits to successfully implemented and managed rssource management activities within and
outside of the region and ability to interact with the implementots, helped to convince beneficiaries of their



25                                   at Na. Am  A
capability to undertake similar resource management activities. Visits to mangve plantaons in BMan
Island, off Jetafe, Bohol and sancwMtl7 establishment in Apo Island, off Dawin, Negro. Oiental and have
assured them that they too can do it.
25.    Becau  of their low educationd level, most fishermen should be intoduced to only one techological
intervention at a ime to ensure full adoption and intliztion. The Nearshore Fisheries Component
introduced fist the resource  halitatig interventions one at a time. Only when these interventions were
adopted and intemalizd by fismen-beneficies wer hwvest mgement activites introduced.
26.    Coastal conmmnities and municipal fishermen who decide to impleent resoue  _mgement projects
claim ownership of these projects. This sense of ownersip prompts them to vigorously camVaign against illegal
fisbing especially against the use of poisons and obnoxious substances and dynamite blasting as these fishing
practices are detrmental to the succew of thei efforts in resource rehabilitation and mangement projects.
Awareness on the destructive effects of illegal fishing on the maine resource have been intealized by
fishem   beneficianes and the communities through continuing trainings and semiars conducted by CVRP-I
field staff.
27.    Fishermen-beneficiaries who are susful implentors of project activities ar effec4ve instuments
(as trainors) for advocacy on resouce management. Beneficiaries of the Nearshore Fisheties Component who
have been accredited by the Department of Education, Culture (DECS) and Sports as Bamagay Resource
Management Technicians (BRMTs) are effectively teaching other fisherment their learnings and experiences in
implementing resoure managemt projects.
Specric
28.    Artificial Reef Constructon and lstalation.    Fishem   beneficiaries regard issuance of
territorial users rights in fisheries (TURF) on instled ARs as legal instuments they can depend on to dtive
away commercial fishermen from their ARs. They would, however, allow othr municipal fishermen to fish in
their installed AR provided they use non-deructive fishing gear. They do this becuse of their traditional
belief that marine resources are common resources and the desire to sham ther bounty with their fellow
fishermen who are also their next door neighbors.
29.   Initial reaction of fishermen beneficiaries to the shift from bamboo ARs to concrete As was negative
due to its laboriousness. However, when they realized that concrete ARs can be a deterrant to bottom-scouig
nets and commercial fisherme, their enthusiasm to install concrete ARs increased. Fishermen beneficiaries are
hopefil that with concrete ARs, bottom-scouring nets and commercial fishing operations in the municipal waters
wil be minimized, if not totally stopped.
30.    Bamboo AR construction and instllation adversely affected the supply and demand for bamboo poles to
the disadvantage of fishennen. Because of the large requirement of bamboo poles for AR constuction, the
supply of this material became scarce. When the price of the poles went up, fishermet beneficiaries
complained. The project then shifted to concrete AR to avoid any fure increase in the price of bamboo poles
attnbuted to massive purchases by the SMUs.
31.   Installed arificial reefs have proven to be effective in aggregating and providing shelter to fish and
other marine animals. Fishermen beneficiaries attest to the increased fish population in areas where ARs are
installed. Because of their increased fish catch from ARs, which are insalled not far from the shore,
beneficiaries are vigilant against destrction of these structu  by commercial fishermen and other fisheme
using illegal fishing nethods.
32.    Other factors to be considered in the application of the concete AR tecbnology is the avalability of the
site suitable for the constuction of artificial reef modules and the materas such as sand, gravel and water.
While the installaion site is ideal for placement of concrete ARs, oftentimes fishermen beneficiaries find



26                                  Patn I, An  A
difficulty in wording together at any one time if the construction site is farther away from their anding site. If
sand, gravel and/or water is not available in the locality, these need to be delivered by the SMU, which entail
additional cost and delay in the c0stuction schedule.
33.    Mangrove Reflretation and Mnagnement.       The issuance of security of tenure over mud and
tidal flats planted with mangrve tree species, particularly 'bakhaw, inspired fishermen beneficiaries to
undertake the technology with vigor. They have become vigilant over thier plantations and ensure that at least
80% of the trees are surviving to be assured of a land teanu certificate.
34.    Cross-visits by selected fishern  leaders to successful mangrove platations and having the opportunity
to interact with their fellow fishermen enhanced the successful implementation of this technology. They leamned
the economic and environmental benefits of maintaining good mangrove areas and related these leamnigs to
theu own fellow fishermen upon their return home.
35.    Existing mangrove stands are spared from annual trmmg for forage to livestock when thesm stands
are enriched with bakhaw and managed by local fishermen. During the diy months of the year, livestock
raisers living along the shoreline cut branches of mangrove trees with leaves for feed to their livestock. When
ennchment planting and managemet has been instituted, fishermen beneficianes became vigilant in the
protection of these existing stands and cutting of mangrove trees has been drastically reduced.
36.    Because of the deleterious effects of poisons and obnoxious substances to newly planted propagules,
fisme  beneficuiaes assisted/joined in the vigorous campaign agast fishing with poisonous subst
especially along the shoreline. Fishing practices using poisons and obnoxious substances have been dramatically
reduced (totally eliminated in soeme areas) in many sites and shell, crustaceans and fishes have repopulated the
established mangrove plantatiens.
37.    Coral Reef Management With Sancary Establishment.         Coral reef management with
sanctuary establshment requires strong community involvement and commitment. Its ussful mstainability
needs the decision maing process of the community and the fishermen who fish in the corl reefs, more
especiallly so if a sanctuary is to be established within the maaged coral reef. Fishermen will have to make
the decision on what coral reef areas they are willing to give up as fishing ground for the establishment of the
sanctuary.
38.    The community decision to sustin mangement of coral reefs and established sanctuaries must be
supported by strong political will of the local government units beginning at the barangay level. A sanctuary
establshed by local communities was not sustained when municipal government support was not extended to thie
community when needed, despite the enactment of a municipal ordinanace establishing the sanctuak' . But
sanctuary establishments strongly supported by local government officials have been su ed succelly even
if some line agency officials warn them that the ordinance for the sanctuary establshment requ1res approval
from cental government before the ordinance could become enforceable.
39.    Fisherm   beneficiaries easily adopted coel reef management with sanctuary establishment projects
because of its direct and immediate economic effects on their livelhood. As observed by fishermen
beneficiaries, fish and other maring animals repopulate the sanctuary as early as two (2) months after
establishment of the sanctuary. Their fish catch also increased correspondingly from fishing within managed
and protected coral reef and the immediate perimeter outside the sanct"ury. In NSF Bayawan, a 16-hectare
sanctary was increased to 60 hectares because of the community's desire to make the whole coral reef area a
sanctuary. The fishermen and the community also increased their campaign against dynamite fishing resulting
in the elmination of dynamite fishing in most sites.
40.    Use of rsh Atractig Devices for Ibhing.       The installation of fish attacng devices (FADs)
for fishing as introduced by CVRP-I for harvest management was not immediately accpted by fishern
beneficiaries. Initially, beneficiaries related FADs (which are vertically floating bamboo poles with attached



27                                  rut a, An_ A
cconut/buri fronds as attrctats) to their trditional horizontly floating bamboo poles .cally caled payams
with fish harve    using encircling nets. Continuous folow up and dialogues with beneficiaies finaly
convinced them ta FADs harvested though fismig methods such as hook and line, spear fishing and legal-
sized mesh nets can provide them with susaned fish aftch over a long period of time.
41.    FADs installed near the shoreline are vesy accessible to benficiaries for harvesting and protecfion
against encroachmt by commercial fishennen. Despite nearness to the shore, pelagic fishes such as tuna and
scads still aggregate and stay around the FADs for longer petiods of time becas these are not dis_tu   by
commercial fishing vperations.
42.    Mariculture Prqjects.     Fisbermen beeficiaries easily adopt manculure pwtices that are
sample, do not requ;- much manpower and provide retub on investment with profit in a short period of time.
This is illustated in the eucheuma cultue in NSP Bindoy and NSF Siqujor where mature eucheuma is
barvested every 40-45 days, and the miracle holes in NSF Roands iwhe highly pnced lapu-lapu and kitoog
juveniles are harvested 2-3 months after establishing the miracle holes. hese juveniles are sold to nearby fish
cage opato
43.    Mariculture projects, which are oftentime established very close to the shoreline, can only be
introduced when fishin with poisons and obnoxious substances have been elinmnated. Othwie, success and
stsinability of the project camnot be assred. Fishermen beneficianes undetking mariculture pojects have
actively joined in the CotinuOUs campaign against illegal fishing.
C.    Socil Foresta Co _ponn
44.    Te Social Forestry Componet aims to improve the living conditions of rual poor filies occupyin
govennt timbeland by creating employment and incasing icmes, conseving the forost by dspping
futher destruction of over-logged are, and developing through hands on' experience a fors  t
approach based on labor-intensive, smnlholder operations that would be rplicable nationwide. To realize these
objectives, the component introduced tie following primy interventions:
(a)  People-oriented reforestation using three methods: straight reforestato, assisted natural regeeration,
and on-farm reforesttion;
(b) Community timber uilization;
(c)  Agroforesy;
(d) Comunity forest protection; and
(e) Facilitate issuance of resouce access instruments.
45.    Lessons.      Through aU the years of proect ewvluo and implemeion, the ial forestry
component generated the following lessons which, detailed below, may be relevant to similar projects
implemented in the future.
46.    The worker should live in the community and perform their task on a 24-hou basis, prvding technical
assistance, facilitae/assist in the conduct of short term courses, and trying out with the community feasible and
easy-to-replicate technologies to encouage the community to puticipate in planning and implementation of
projects.
47.    Commuty-Based Nuaeying (CBCN) and Community-Based Contact Reforstation (CBCR) were
proven to be vey effective. They do not only bssten seedling production and plating but also ensure that tho
community assumes the responsibility for   ntainig and protecting the foest tree seedings which they have
planted and the immediate timberland area in their prqjecL However, tot all FOSAs favored CB3CN/CBCR.
Some wanted the group/family appro   of reforestaon wherein they would be the oe to asue and plant their
seedlings on their own claims. This paved the way for our on-farm reforesdation/agro-reforestation. Ibis may
be amttrbuted to the incrasg awarenes in CVRP clientele/FOSAs of the import  of tees or perennia
crops.



28                                 Pasr 11, Am= A
48.    Comunity-Based Forest Protection with support from DENR, PC/INP and the local goverment proved
to be bighly effective. The organization of Negros Oriental Bantay Lasang (NOBAL) has given the community
more teeth to implement Forest Laws and regulatios for they are already clothed with the necessary authonty.
49.   The FOSAs protect the remaiig forest within their respctive areas even without remuneration due to
their increasing awareess of the importance of protecting their enu-ironment and the hope of utilizing the
resourwes someday.
50.   Community Timber Utilizaton (CTU) was an experment of the Social Forestry component which
provided inputs/bass for the Community Forestry Program (CFP) of DENR. DENR should have reissued cru
permits to FOSAs after implementation leamings had beeb processes and incorporated in an updated CM
implementing guidelines with inputs from local govermt officials, FOSAs, DENR and CVRP. Additional
actual experiences would have ben accumulated and documented.
51.    The issuance of CSC as an instrument of access for security of tenure, if not properly managed will
motivate kaingineros to open more forests and apply for CSCs, thus increasing the rate of destruction of our
over-logged forest.
D.        aCmponent
52.   The Infastucture Component of CVRP can be regarded as a major componet based on actasl
investments/figures. Its ierventions, however, are basically supportive of the iee other major components of
CVRP, namely, Upland Agriculture, Nearshore Fisheries and Social Foresty.
53.   In itself, the Infratructure Component had some underadings which were also consitet with the
prect's general objectives of (i)government decentraization; (ii)better resource base management; (Jii)arresting
rapid   vironmental degradaon; and (iv)raising the income and living standards of the forest oCCants, upland
famers and artisanal fisherman.
54.    Major component interventions include construction, improvement and maintenance of roads,
consruction of graded trails through Labor-Based Equipment-Suppoted Teebnology and
constuction/improvement of Level I and I Water Supply projects. Additioally, the Component ablo uidettook
institutional srgteig activities intended to capacitate the PEOs and PPDOs, the main implemenors of the
aforementioned interventions, towards becoming more capble in administering   al inf uct  projects
thereby maling them more effective in serving and being responsive to the needs of the clientele within the
region.
55.   Lessons       Implementation of rual infrutur projects through the local govemment units was
seen to be very appropriate and, in a way, had proven to be cost effective. Systems and mehnisms are
already m place which only need some modifications and/or improvements along the way. Approval of
contracts is done within the local government structure and there is no problem for the approving authority in so
far as the ceiling of the contract amount is concemed. Project monitoring ad suevision capability of the
LGUs are also satisfactory even as they were also amply supported by the consultant hired by the project.
56.   The prequalification of contractors, while proven in many instances to be an indispensable way of
deerminig the technical and financil capability of a contractor, does not always guarantee successfid project
implementation and is, at times, already academic. This is particulady true in Bohol, Negro Oriental and
Siquijor where there are only a few (not more than four) local contractors capable of undertaing road
constucfion rojects. With a number of projects being undertaken at one time, a point of incapability can easily
be reached by a conactor. In inastances where there are sill a number of projects to be implemented, the
provincial govemment is left with the option to undetake the project by administration (which again raises the
same question regarding its capability), or have the project awarded to the already ovedoaded contractor.
Otherwise, the project will have to wait for the appropriate time.



29                                   it XU, A= A
57.    Waer suply project beneficiaies' associatons are seen as an impont entity to ensure project
sustainabiity. If afforded with basic knowledge and skills in proper operation and mainteae of water supply
prqects, these associaios can takle cue of the tmnor reais and maintenance of theit  spective proects.
These asociations must be organized prior to actual implemeatation so that involvement with the prqect is
already felt and intenalized by the beneficiaries at an early stage in project implementation.
58.   The Common Fund Concept of disbursement is an effecdve solution to delayed funding releases by
DBM. The scheme of utilizing existing cash balances intended for slow moving projects/transactons in favor of
the fast moving aoes have gteaty helped in achieving the desired targets.
59.   Adoption/intemalization of new policies, implementation procedures and tecnologies at the Local
Govermment Level is a slow and fradual process. Existing implementation mechanisms and policies at the local
govemnment are so deeply roted that introduction of new policies and mehanisms, no matter how viable they
are, will always take some time before they are finally accepted. Resistance will surely be encountered along
the eay as in the case of the Common Fund Concept and the LB-ES technology.
60.    LB-ES method of infrastructure implementation is a viable alterative to equipment-based construction.
Te mehod/technology is definitely acceptable to the community and is seen to be advantageous to both the
government and the workes. LB-ES projects not only provides additional income to farmers/fishmenn  who
work on the project, it also provides a venue for intellectual growth in terms of leadership and co; amation as
wel as in lerning construction and maintenance skills. The government, for its part, will enjoy ti.  vwed
confidence of the people. Projects implemented through LB-ES is also at par in quality with those implemented
thrugh equipment-based method. Completed trails projects of CVRP attest to this.
61.   Implementaion of projects by administion or through contract (MOA) with other goverment
agencies involved in infrastrucWre implementation such as the NIA and the Engineering Brigade of the
Philippine Army can be advantageous to the government. Except for its major setback of having the project not
completed on time, the advantages are clear and numerous. For one, projects can be implemented at less cost
because there are no contractor's profit to consider. Second, quality of work is at its best. Thirdly, work
viwsons, when necessary, can be facilitated immediatly.
E.    Research
62.    The Resexch Compooent addressed two fimdamental needs of the region:
(a)  Backstop the technology, requirement of a large-scale extension program on watershed management
utilizing the farming systems apprach; and,
(b)  reiforce and develop the capability of region-based institbtions to provide effectiv adn susainable
R&D program for the watersheds through the establishment and management of a regional R&D
consortium.
63.    Accomplshments        Technology-generation utilizing the frmg systems approach w  carined
out on-farm by cooperator-beneficiaries, co-maged by researcher-extensionists in established Research
Satellite Stations (RSS) in forest, upland and nearshore project sites. A total of 18 on-farm researches nave
been condwted with 14 of these already _tmind. On-station studies conhtacted to research institutions
supplied the requrd baseline information and other component technologies that complemented on-farm
researches and completed a farming-systems perspective. Eighteen (18) studies were contrcted out: with seven
(7) have been completed, while the rest are still on-going.
64.    Research results and relevant information were documented, packaged in popular forms and
disaemad to identified beneficiaries. Technology packages in varied print forms were disttibuted to clients
all over the region. Requests from outside the region had also been served. A computerized data base system
and a data netwodking scheme had been established and is now operational providing an efficient informatio
bank and information exhange for the region.



30                                 PFat I, Anaw A
65.    Research capability-building and institutional stgthening was achieved through the establishment of a
regional research conwsortium (Central Visayas Consortium for Integated Regional Reseach and Developmet
or (CV-CIRRD) and a non-stock, nnprofit foundation (Visayas Foundation for Regional Research and
Managemet, Inc. or FARRM, Inc.) applying to be considered a DOST-cerified scientific orgnization.
66.    The consortium, omposed of 15 govenmuental and academic institutions, managed an integrated R&D
program of the region through sharing of resources and expertise. A Research Management Center (RMC)
equipped with office facilities for research operations and utlzaton, including a mdt  dormitory, served as
the official station of the consrtium staff. The consortium staff, both detailed and full-time, were capacitated
through relevant trainings, workshops/seminars, study tours and cross-visits enabling them to gaion substantial
leamings in their line of work. On-the-job experiential leaunings from R&D magement, including on-fanr
expementation and contracted reseatch studies eriched eveo more the capability building process. Reseac
operations were especly improved through the formatio of regional, provincial, municipal and barangay rual
appraisal teams. The Rapid Rural Appraisl (RRA) process enabled the Research Operations staff to deepen
their understanding of the farmer and his enviromnent leading to proper alignment of research and development
undertaings that answer the real needs of client-communities.
67.    Lassons.       The evolution of a research team fom a task force to a regional organization (CV-
CIRRD) recognized nationwide and with a scientific foundation (FARRM) back-up, after over 6 year of
implementation, indicated rapid growth in the R&D  magement arena for the regimo through a real bottom-up
approach. Research institutions f*om both the govemment and the academe have leaned and are reaping the
benefits of local cooperation and shadng. The increasing gains of an integted R&D progam is however
hampered by the reluctance of the regional DA, one of the biggest technical line agencies, to assume full
responsibility for sustaing the consortium, post CVRP-I life. What is being worked out now is to transfer
CV-CIRRD management ot the FARRM and subcontract specific assets and fiuntions to member agencies
currently uilizing these. The workability of this plan remains to be seen as tumover of a government asset to a
private entity could have legal implications. The large investments placed on this underaing are now resting
on dangerous gounds. As long as DA will not assume full responsibility for the consortium, its operation will
remain unstable and its growth thwarted. The true meaning of cooperation is being testd here.
68.    Researches conducted primarily by the beneficiaries themselves should provide real and effective client
participation from problemlneed identification until the evaluation phase of tested technology to complete the
iterative process in the farmer-back-to-farmer approach. Back-up and follow-up studies by clients must be
undertaken for in-depth exposure to the research process allowing the deepenig of understding and sustaiming
client's interest in research even beyond project underbdakng. Through this process research capability is built
up allowing the transformation fo clients from mere adoptors to technology generators and change agets
tbemselves.
69.    Continued evaluation is vital to make technical solutions or inmovations apprpriate to the target
beneficiaries an  environm t. A systematic feedback arrangement from the client-community to the
plannners and poiwy makers must be established. Othewi research and development efforts will remain a
meaningless exerise totally out of touch with the client community. The RRA teams and the RSS manager
could provide the needed dat for this assessment.
70.    Technologies that are difficult to master will have additional problems in adaptation. Complex technical
recom_medaion will often discourage would be adoptor to try the unfamiliar and could even condition him to
shun introduced techniques in general. Likewise, technology biases could oftentimes divert attention from the
clients and its environment to the menu of predetermined recommendations. This was the case with researches
conducted at the satellite stations where the frmer-coopeators and even the field researchers, to some degree,
are left out in the formulation of specific research proposals. This litits the scope of R&D activities in the
station to the neglect of the real needs of the clients to whom R&D are supposey directed.



31                                  Put V. Am  A
71.    Providing rem atdon for cooprative research undtakin  should be cdarified from the stt to
pevt    o       os about fo incetives sive. item coud be ines when th iceives given cud
bom  the oly movating fator to do a task to th deimn of the real pupose of Ihe undetaing. if
possible, givng of monetary   "ivsshld be avoided.
72.    Ihe Research Opperat   (RCGIFR) team shold be an a fiW time status and n  patt tim  personnel
from othr line ages doig sever odter tusb for dth  mother agis Mm wi  scope of actvitie of
maning a Research Satelit Staions tequirs f   im  commitment. Rear tesonist must give fhU
ecic supoxt to clit-cooperatr in ihe conduct of fring ssmi researhes. It is asso very imporat that
the Research core Graop (RaO) be ocmposed of multi-disciplinay individuals with specia expertise i both
agcal an social sciences. Tey need to have the fuan support of their supetiors in this gwng field of
farming sysem opeatio



32
PROJECT COMPELEION REPORT
PI0i
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
LWAN 2360-PH
PART III: STATIMCAL INJORMATION
1. Reltd a   LOM   and Cred
Year of
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose                     Approval    Status          Comments
Smallholder Tree Farming     Assist gov't. in developing     1977    Completed
and Forestry Project         more effective programs of
Ln. 1 506-PH                 tree farming and reforest-
ation among small- and
medium-farmers
Rainfed Agricultural Dev-    To extend new multiple          1980    Completed      Implementation
elopment                     cropping technology to                                 delays oue to
Ln. 1815-PH                  lowland areas. Support                                 prolnems of
marketing, extension, train-                           interagency
ing, strengthen institutions.                          coordination &
lack of authority
at local level.
Watershed Management         To establish economically.      1981    Completed
Ln. 1 890-PH                 financially and technically
viable systems for water-
shed mgmt.
Environment & Natural Res-    Implement recommend-           1991    Under imple-    Proceeding
ources Sector Adjustment     ations of ffARM (FY89)                  mentation      satisfactorily
Program                      study to develop protect-
Ln. 3360-PH / Cr. 2277-PH    ed areas; reguat logging;
provide tenure; improve
upland extension services;
develop community-based
natural resource mgmt.;
poverty alleviation.



2. Prolect Timetable                                33
Item                               Date Planned           Date Revised            Date Actual
Identification (EPS)                    NA                    NA                    04181
Preparation                             NA                    N.4                    ; 0i81
Appraisal Mission                    04/25180                 NA                     t1 '82
Loan Negotiations                       NA                    NA                   10/07/83
Board Approval                         12/83                  NA                   '2/06183
Loan Signatre                           NA                    NA                   02107/84
Loan Effectiveness                    04/84                   NA                   05/15/84
Loan Closing la                      06/30/90               06/30/92               06130/92
Loan Completion                      06/30/89               12/31/92               12131/92
/a  Project had 2 closing date extensions, closing date from first extension was 06/30/91.



3. Lgon Obumoms                                      34
Cmule Ested and Acmtal Dlsbu,sements
(US$ million}
FY
1984  1986  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Aopraisal estimate                   3.1   5.6   9.6  14.6  20.6  25.1  .5.6
Revised estimate                     0.9   2.9   3.3   5.2   7.5  11.0  16.8  22.0  25.0
Actual                               0.9   3.0   3.7   3.7   6.9  11.6  15.7  17.4  20.3  22.1
Actual as % of estimate             29%   53%   39%   25%   33%   46%   61%
Actual as % of revised estimate  100%   102%  112%  71%   92%   105%  93%   79%   81%
Date of final disbursement      11/03/92
Cumulative Disbursement - Estimated vs Actual
30rI
251
1201 -|- /_*                                                                   Appraiisal
215                                        \ <                                    Revised
10+               .                                                     -        Actual
c  0X         0     c      co    0)    0) 0     0      0      0
0      0            0)    0       c             CD     0      gm
FY



4. Protect tmnentatlon                             35
Appraisal           Actual/SAR  % Sustained
Indicators                             Unit   estimate    Actual      (%I      at closing
Upland Agricultur
aarangays                             no         103      103         100%
Client-beneficiaries                  hh       5.698    7,521         132%
On-arm soil conservation              ha       7,484    7,421          99%          35%
Agro-forestry                         ha       3,178    3,821         120%          85%
Refotrestation                        ha       1,660    1,460          88%          32%
Resource access instruments /a        no       4,473    3.172          71%
Livestock /b                          no      11,600    5.288         46%          68%
Upland fishponds hc                   no           0      831                      43%
Microwatershed Plans                  no         787    1,156         147%         45%
Sopal Forestry
Barangays                             no          12        12        100%
Forest-user grouPs                    no          26       27         104%
Client-beneficiaries                  hh       1,200    1,420         118%
Reforestation                         ha       5.050    5,096         101%         83%
Agro-forestry (on-farm)               ha         700      874         125%          96%
Resource access instruments          no        1,000    1,026         103%
Nearshore Fisheries
Barangays                             no         170      182         107%
Client-beneficiaries /d               hh       7.705    5,482          71%
Artifilfiaeef clusters                no         91O    1,164         128%          57%
Mangrove reforestation                ha         650    1,037        160%          85%
Coral reef management                 ha       3,600    4,621        12896         94%
Fish attracting devices /a            no           0      278                      70%
Mariculture If                        ha           2       93       4660%          56%
Resource access instruments           no       1,736    1,622         93%
Uvestock /9                           no           0       63
Forage development /g                 ha           0  unknown
Infrastructure
Newroads                             km           97      110        113%
Road improvement                     km          125      175        140%
Trails /h                            km          475      186         39%
Water supply fi                       no           0      221
Road maintenance                     km          223      304        136%
8ridge construction                   m          153      153         100%
/a  Target was reduced to 2,347 after mid-term review, project achieved 135% of the revisea target.
Actual number processed is 2,812, but 3,172 households benefited.
/b   Mid-term review reduced target to 4,240 due to investment in govemment stock farms
for animal production being judged ineffective and livestock procurement proving difficult
to manage. Project achieved 126% of the revised target.
/c  Fish ponds (810) were proposed at mid-term review. Project achieved 103% of the target.
/d  Reasons for decrease in client-beneficiaries was not specifically addressed during final
evaluation. Contributing factors appear to have been: ti) limited participation potential due to
limited areas suitable for some project interventions (e.g. ARs); {ii) lack of controls on access and
harvest were disincentive to individual investment; (iii) without access control financial returns
from harvest are unattractive; (iv) and DENR was unable to issue stewardship contracts for
management of existing mangrove unti 1991 with the creation of a 'Mangrove Stewardship
Contract' by Administrative Order.



4. Probet irnPbmematlo                                36
/e   Added at mid-term review in response to limited opportunities to assist fishing families provided
artificial reefs and mangrove management. Project achieved 117% of the targeL.
/f  Targets for mariculture were expanded to 1 2ha at mid-terrn review. Despite the aprp.rent
success of this component (based on numbers), it is believed that there exists little potential
for mariculture techniques as they are highly species and site specific.
!g  In response to heavy pruning of mangrove for fodder a fodder development sub-component
was added. Soon after inception the focus shifted to livestock dispersal as an incentive for
participation in other coastal resource management activities. Areas developed for fodder
went unreported.
/h   Mitern review reduced target to 200km due to original designs not incorporating needed cross-
drainage structures. No additional budget was allocated, therefore target was reduced.
/i  Water supply projects were in high demand by communities. Savings generated by labor-
intensive rather than equipment-intensive infrastructure construction methods were utilized to
construct water supplies.



So. Prolct CCoats ad fnianelna                      37
Protect ,osts
(US$ million) /a
Appraisal        Revised                           Actual/Revised
Category                            /b               Ic              Actual
Civilworksandbuildings             11.1              10.1             11.6            115%
Equipment and vehicles              3.2              9.4              ' .5             s8%
Production inputs, livestock
and materials                    6.7              10.2              7.0             69%
Salaries and allowances             8.3              7.0              6.4              91%
Travel, maintenance and
office supplies                  4.3               1.7              1.8             108%
Training and technical
assistance                       3.1              4.8               6.8             ;42%
Project preparation /d              7.6              0.8              0.8             100%
Front-end fee                       0.1              0.1              0.1             100%
Total Inestment     44.4              44.1             39.0             88%
ia Average exchange rates during project implementation were as follows:
(US$ = Pesos)
1984             18.75
1985             18.75
1986             20.50
1987             20.50
1988            21.00
1989            21.60
1990            25.00
1991             26.00
1992            26.00
/b  Physical and price contingencies included.
/c Investment costs were revised three times during implementation. In FY87 to US$36.4 million orimarily
due to reduced capital costs; in FY90 to US$34.1 million to reflect actual expenoitures with project
closing, and in FY91 to $41.1 million with project extension.
/d Including repayment of two advances from the Project Preparation facility totaling US$1.1 million
with interest.



5b. ProectCogtsand Flnanoma                        38
ProLect Financina
(US$ million)
Planned          Pertent                          Percent
Source                        (Loan Agreement)      of Total         Actual          of Total
IBRD expenditure categories         25.6             58.2             22.1            i57%
Govemment of the Philippines        .8.4             41.8             16.9            43%
Total                   44              wO,o39.0                         1



S.  >                                                 39
L. Dit iem8"
Appraisal    Estimated at      Estimated at
Indicators                         estimate      closing date    full development
Beneficiary households              14,603         14,423           414,423
(no.)
Incremental production
(tonslvearl
Annuals
Grain /a                        4,040          (1,290)           5.000
Tubers                          2,840             /k              lb
Legumes/c                       2.080           1,210             565
Perennials
Trees (fruit)
Mango                          19,080           1,925            6,600
Banana                          6,000           1,385            1.680
Jackfruit                       3.800           4,180           13,885
Other/d                         4,170           1,670            3,260
Trees (wood)e
Fuelwood 1 000 tons)             436                              140
Timber ('000 cu m)              1,345                             310
Poles ('000)                     532                             6,150
Rattan ('000 pieces)            4,512                             If
IJvestock (iivewelelht)             1,290            45               670
Fish & Other Sea Products            689             305              290
la - about 30% of the increase from SAR estimate attributed to increased area under social forestry
component and the remainder is attributable to increased cropping intensity. In the absence
of these factors, incremental yield was estimated at 90% of appraisal estimate.
.hb-- insufficient data. Note :between 1980 and 1991, the reported-cropping intensity in project area
for root crops dropped from 25% to 6%
Ic - Reduction in yield at full development is attributable to reduction in area with maturity of
perennial crops and hedgerows.
/d - e.g. cacao, caimito, calamansi, coffee, guava, lemonsito, pineapple.
/e - represents total, not annual, production.
/f -- rattan production was to have been part of the 8S"ini Forestry component's management of
natural forest. Difficulties In obtaining utilization permits and in management of the component
resulted in Its cancellation in 1987.



6. (contd)                                            40
B. Enonmc Imroat
Estimated ERR at       Estimated ERR at
Aopraisal Estirnate    Full Development      .-ull Deveiopment
Component                          ERR          (with infrastructure costs} (without tnfrastructure costs)
Production Componems              17.5%                 8.2%                    2.5%
Upland Agnculture           17.7%                  11.8%                  t6.1%
Social Forestry             17.4%                  5.2%                   8.9%
Nearshore Fisheries         16.4%                   < 0                   3.1%
Notes :
1)   Rates of return were estimated two ways: i) as per SAR methodology, i.e. based on
the project's production and infrastructure components which comprised about 70%
of project investment with the other 30% of project costs excluded as generating benefits
either region or countrywide. These latter comprising the costs for research, institutional
strengthening and training of non-project related govemment personnei. ana project
preparation and; ii) same as above with the exception that infrastructure costs are excluded
under the assumption that the benefits of infrastructure extend beyond the production
targets and project participants.
2)   Historical and projected revenues, costs and investments are based on Regional Project
Management Office estimates and adjusted as follows:
(a) Infrastructure and project management costs were allocated to project
components based on their percentage of total direct Investment.
(b) Working capital requirements estimated from information provided by
the Regional Project Office and standards for infrastructure maintenance .
(c) Steady state yields for all crops (including forestry and fisheries) were
adjusted to reflect:
(1) estimates of percentage of activities sustained by project clients;
basd of reported percentages at project closing.
(2) predicted low yields from forestry plantings due to combination of
commoniV poor species and site matching, use of highly
variable germplasm, and low management inputs.
(3) reduced yields from fruit crops due to combination of highly variable
germplasm, low management inputs and relative lack of avadable
horticultural technical assistance.
(4) overestimates of fish catch caused by (apparentlv) anomalous
catch data from 1991.
(d) All cash flows converted to constant currency basis using average
exchange rates during project Implementation.
(e) All taxes and forest charges are excluded in the economic valuation of
project input and output.
(f)  All livestock, technical assistance and direct regional management costs
are included in the analysis.
Ig) Labor rates of Pesos 30/day were assumed based on data provided bv
the Regional Project Office.



6. Icont'd)
C. Studiet
Study                          Purpose As Defined At Appraisal /a      Status        Impact of Study
Assessment of farming          Provide project planning and design     Completed     la -- Identified a series of prioritv studies and
systems in uplands and         inpuits.                                              research areas; studies presented below
analysis of nearshore fishey y                                                       represent the major outputs.
Screening trials of mangrove   Provide recommnendations on species    Completed      Preliminary data on alternatives to
species in Central Visayas     and their managemefit tor mangrove                    Rhizoptiora spp... No impact during project.
reforestation.
Wood marketing in Region VII   To serve as a guide in forestry planning  Completed   Encouraged promotion of fuelwood, baiimboo.
operations.                                           nipa shingles and splt rattan. Latter 3 products
have limited. viable production sites and were
only rarely managed under project.
Enrichment planting of logged  Provide managemert and financial       Ongoing        Preliminary results show Acacia auricLdiformis.
Dipterocatp fosest             Information.                                          Ptetocarpus spp. and Lamio spp. to do well.
Assisted natural regeneration  Provide management infornation for     Ongoing        Preliminary imdications suggest management                           t
of Dlpterocarp species         favoring Dipterocarp regeneration in                  of logging activitieS to minimnize disturbance of
logged over areas.                                    saplings and lave, healthy reproductively
mature individuals rather than reliance on
after-logging treatments.
Establishment and management    To provide management and financial   Completed      Identified one species (Bavog) sensitivity to
of bamboo plantations.         information.                                          establishment practices. No apparent impact
on project.
Socio-economic surveys of      To provide mid-project baseline data.  Completed      Provided baseline data for PCR.
selected social forestry
project sites.
Fisherman perceptions of       ro tonotor relevance of a maor         Completed      Showed average 3.3 kg/fisinig trip mtcease
artificial reef technology,    component of project-promoted .                       in catch; lowever. fisherman did not perceive
technology                                           this a imptoving living standard. Jdentiried
intrusion of other fisherman into AR sites as
a major problem for capture of benefits.
Comparative pertformance of    To make recommendations on             Completed  P'rovidck recomnmendations that we.e
alternative hedgerow           appropriate choices of species.                       successtully adopted project-widie on acid
species for acidic soils.                                                            soils (e.j. Flemingia congestai.



7. Status of Covenuas                                 42
Covenant                               Subject                                   Status
L.A. Article 111, 3.03 (a)  Maintain records and procedures adequate to   In compliance. However, given the technical
monitor the progress of the project, Including    nature of the project and the diversity of
its costs and benefits.                   interventions. in order to have obtained an
accurate estimate of benefits. a more
structured. empincal effon would have
been neeced.
L.A. Article IV, 4.02 (a) Maintain records adequate to reflect the actual  In compliance during implementation period.
operations, financial condition, resources, and   Completed.
expenditures under the project.



8. Use of Bank Resowc.                           43
A. 8f 1n0ML
(weeks)
Planned       Revised        Final            Comments
Through appraisal             n.a.          n.a.          165.5
Apprisal through
effectiveness                 n.a.          n.a.           8.1
Supervision                   n.a.          ns.           82.1
Total                                          255.7



8. I¢ont'dl                                             J4
Stage of           Month/              Days in    Specialization    Performance     TVpes of
Project Cyde        Year    Persons    Field    represented la   rating status    . . onlems
Reconnalsance      10/79       1         2            A
Prepareton 1       02/80       1         4            A
Preparatlon2       04/80       1         5            A
Prepafation 3      10/80       3         5          E, S, U
Preparation 4      08181       3         7          E, S. U
Preparation 5      10/81       3         5          A. E. Fs
Preparion 6        02/82       3         3          A. E. Fs
Preappraisal       05/82       4         3          E. Ft. Fo
Appraisal          11/82       6        n.a.    A. E. Fi, Fo, Fs, S
Post-appraisal     09183       6         5        E. Fi, Fo. Fs
Supervidon 1       03/84       2         7           E, En            2
Supervision 2      01/86       2         5           E, En           n.a.
Superviion 3       10185       1         8            A              2
Super ;oion 4      03t86       1        n.a.          A             n.S.
Supervison 6       10t86       1         6            A              2
Supervison 6       05/87       6         6       A, E. En, Fi. P     n.a
Supervision 7      09/87       2         4           A. E             2
Supervision 8      06o88       2         6            E               2
Supervision 9      02/89       2         11          A, E             2      Slow procurement
Supervision 10     07/89       1         5            A               2
Supesvison 11      03/90       1         3            A               2
Supervision 12     08/90       1         4            A               I
Supervision 13     07191       2         6           E, Fs           2
Supervision 14     07/92       4         10        A, E. Fs          2
/a Key to specialization:  A - Agriculture
E n Economics
S   Sociology
U    Urban Planning
Fs - Fishiedes
Fi = Finance
Fo * Foresrn
En * Engineerng



1. Tebav A*pQn45                                                                            Pr MIl. Annwx A
T so_ogy Adoption Rate In Prect Comwtunmes
1y Component
(Source: PIDS 1992 Households Survey)
Percent In
Project Site
Technology                Adopting
Upland Aariculture
Contour layouts with A-Ftame             78%
Establishment of hedgerows               78%
Composting                               53%
Contour ro kwalls                        47%
Checkdams/divetsion canals               40%
Green manure                             35%
Crop rotation                            30%
Social Forestry
Tetracing                                95%
Contour farmning                         91%
Establishment of hedgerows               87%
Contour rockwalls                        74%
Households perceiving a decline
in deforestation rate                81%
Construction of "A dams                  63%
Nearshore Fisheries
Artficial reef activites                 78%
Mangrove reforestation                   73%
Adherence to fishing laws                55%



2. Househoid income bv leel of technaioov adoption  46                                  Pat Ill. Annex A
Househotd Income Level As Function Of Technology Adoption
(from PIDS 'Impact Evaluation of CVRP Upland Agricuure Component)
992 Pesos
Non-         Lovv /a        Medium          High            All
Adoptor       Adoptor        Adoptor        Adoptor        Adontors
Farm Income            7.667          8,184          13,995         16.232        14.418
CV /b                   1.23           1.22           1.69           1.88           1.80
Gross Income           13,633         11,683        20,794         22,835         20.843
CV                      0.88           0.88           1.80           1.40           1.61
% of sample             12%            8%            44%            36%            88%
Sample size (n) =       222
Note: average farm income for all adoptors significantly greater (alpha - 0.011 than non-adaptors;
average farm income for medium and high adoptors sognificantly greater than for
non- and low adoptors (alpha - 0.05)
/a - six technology areas were considered : soil conservation, soil fertility enhancement, agroforestry,
reforestation, microwatershed planningAlmplementatlon and upland fish ponds.
Level of adoption based on household adopting project-promoted technologies
within these areas; 'Low' - 1, Medium'   2-3 'High' = 4-6.
lb - CV = standard deviation/mean



Household aross income by year and component            47                                             Part IlIl. Annex A
Gross Household Income By Year and Paricipation In Project
(from PIDS 'Evaluetton of the CnrstaI Visyaas Regional Project - l.
1985 la                     9998
Component                              Non-                      Non-                      Non-
Participants  Participants  Participants  Participants Participants   Participants
Upland Agriculture       4,389        5,062       11.268        7,784        20,843       13,633
Social ForestrV          4,879        3,811       11.348        8,517        11.768       8.618
Nearshore Fisheries      4,216        6,119        8,703        8,369        20,946       28,235
,a -- income in constant (1985) Pesos
Comparison of Average Household Income of Pardcipants and Non-Participants
30,000fi'
1985               1988             1991
25,000+
S 20,000t +t
1 5,000+r:
-. Socia Forestrv
10,0004'         |                                                         Upiand Agnculture
UNeorhoroiseno 
5,0   -         |-+
0                  0       0        0        0
,G       B         ':       °                  °
C                      C        C 
6.            6.~~C    L.                 1
*   (U        0        0        0         0~~~.1
0.  0.     0.       0..       0.        0.7



_                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i_
1W  - ci  c~~~~~~~~~~~.o~~~~"w   p~~~~~~yj~~~~a~~~ ~APRIL I98
NC4  f    AtJnowft                  :HisTHILIPINES
Xcoa         VI    V WA4               ;            ~CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
tPM*  PRinceS
-            [112~~~~ PRoecy ARtEA
j45                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 NMAO CITIS
46j                           - '                            AIRPORTS
~I1                                                                           PROVINCIAL tOUNDARIES
49         -            I                                    RElONAL BOUNDARIES
, ;,< - t4~~V1&   -  6t51-                                                     INTERATHOIAL tOUNDARIES
-^r; oA20        *                 hn i O    1 25-   it1        
V.     Lom   $x                                                     MILS .AJ
231               E -E0d                                                       IV I. _ ?   E      2Q0 250 300
31~~~~~6
do>                                             *   X;t  . PH   IUPPIIV/NE    S  EA
35?    - , ,-O    ,,...(;
a. $.bWrr cM/~~~~~~~~~ iAl L | tl           p   E,/~~~~tlo
33.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
34S    8 EA-
W   S 9  C   S  ~~~    r    ;       g   \    $  L ,.  1a°S1S
Go,-  e.w 5 s.
,m71A                                                               m ,
72~~~Aeppb 
37~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e 73.dh @U wt                                      FO.00 



DRD 17031
w~~                          ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ w   X         :At 4 tl Te *5 ' E.
PHtiCPPtNES
¢> v 'wttegi t'^>. 'CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONA ;l
t  ,    st-,_,    oo   &Wm                            PROJECT
g,.eA , C          -                PJECT LOC          S
X sX -- di~~~~~~~~~~~ Abplts
,ww~  hblipl
.,      ',... .,:  -    ',,                                 Pbl eI
\ ' - - Z~~~~~~
'  a,4L   'S X,-  ;' !  -                    -t
* ''. '.,7 ' ''.^       w:;9;   *   ...............................* S tz .......* s  .(
? , t_' '- '
'1'0  L ._. _ , .......... _ d .............>  A,,,t-*k 1, ' ,  ',  ,'t o



, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I L-f.  C,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
It =3~~~~~~~~~~~~
E\    / 3i  
>M~~~~~>             f0
Zt~~~~~~~~~~
'9,     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
m~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~-           I-~~~~



IBRD 17033
BAYAWAN RIVER                                                 /AYUNGON-.BINDOY                                                                                        HIPPNS                MARCH 1983
/   ..-~~~~~~~~~    2 ~~~CENTRAL VISAYA$
V  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nabbo5 ~ on~~oo  lbyovnO    Ad~   ~AYUNGON-BINDOY,
AwS                   BAYAWAN RIVER WATERSHEDS
taboy   Awoan ~ ~   ~      ~     Pojctbunare
Yengon~~~~Eitignaina o
-1~~~~~z ~~0                                                                              ...........Existing barangoy roads
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                                                           Roods proposed for improvements
V~~~~5cO0400009  ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ........Proposed baranigoy roads
701                                                                                    R~~~~~~~~~~~Aioo  .iivers or creeks
olnacbon  >~~lognoIog        0      Municipalities
AlMob. IT.~/                                                     ,O                                0      Barangays
\  (I  J~~~~~~.'-  MeSogisog  5 ~~~~~~~~~~~Municipal boundaries
~~~                                      ..-..-.. ~~~~~~~~~~Provincial boundaries
"                       0ConIsss  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....International boundaries
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bino
20'-~~~~~~~~-
-1                                  -"--,.~~~~~~~~~.2                       HIIPIE
~~~~~JNono ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ne 
0~~~~
Mb. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      <in~
MOnb                                      s.-                                                                ,...\M'y \                             r-            
gko5                          A          PHILIPPINES       Ins.? B    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~/       /   ( ~~~-A       //
005nMigool                                                              tlI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zoAiv"
0                                                                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~0  2  4     6       8       10
Moon tes2                                                                                                                                                                        2A  Kilo.otsrs46
Motob~~   ~      ~~~                                                             A- I
as                                                                                   /                                                                                            Mien~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
BO~~ 
mn ~  on oo r~s'm    ~ a    ssi S-Y no fooon
-MARIA ~ ~  ~ ~ O  sun   ooOon,Sng 00  0aio  ssg*Ofo0000



