Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4504-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
October 26, 1983
Projects Department, Agriculture II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENCY
US$1.00      Pesos (P) 14.00
P1.00  =  US$ 0.07
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AIP    -  Annual Investment Program
BFAR   -  Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
BFD    -  Bureau of Forest Development
CDW    -  Community Development 'Worker
CVRPO  -  Central Visayas Regional Project Office
FAO    -  Food and Agricultural Organization
(of the UN)
FNP    -  Food and Nutrition Plan
FSI    -  Forest Stand Improvement
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
GRP    -  Gross Regional Product
GSRC   -  Government Survey and Reorganization
Commiss ion
IAD    -  Integrated Area Development
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (World Bank)
ICB    -  International Competit:ive Bidding
IRP    -  Integrated Reorganization Plan
LCB    -  Local Competitive BiddiLng
MA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
MB      -  Ministry cf Budget
MCO    -  Municipal Coordinating Officer
MDO    -  Municipal Development Officer
MNR    -  Ministry of Natural Resources
MPWH   -  Ministry cf Public Works and Highways
NACIAD - National Council on Integrated Area
Development
NEDA   -  National Economic and Development
Authority
NFA    -  National Food Authority
NFAC   -  National Food and Agricultural
Council



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- ii -
NIA    -  National Irrigation Administration
NPV    -  Net Present Value
NRO    -  NEDA Regional Office
PCA    -  Philippine Coconut Authority
PCO    -  Provincial Coordinating Officer
PCR    -  Philippine Commission for Reorganization
PDC    -  Provincial Development Council
PDO    -  Provincial Development Officer
PEO    -  Provincial Engineer's Office
PPF    -  Project Preparation Facility
RBFAR  -  Regional Office of the Bureau of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
RBFD   -  Regional Office of the Bureau of
Forest Development
RDC    -  Regional Development Council
RDIP   -  Regional Development Investment Program
RFORI  -  Regional Office of the Forestry
Research Institute
RMA    -  Regional Office of the Ministry of
Agriculture
RPO    -  Regional Projects Office
SCF    -  Standard Conversion Factor
SMU    -  Site Management Unit
SOE    -  Statement of Expenditure
T&V    -  Training and Visit
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PHILIPPINES: CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
Introduction  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
Rural Sector. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
Support Services and Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
Government Objectives and Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
Experience with Past Lending  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
II.  REGIONALIZATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
Historical Background ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  5
Present Situation ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Planning and Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           7
Central Visayas (Region VII)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9
III.  THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
A.  Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
B.  Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
C. Detailed Features .12
Watershed Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Upland Agriculture. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Social Forestry .13
Nearshore Fisheries .15
Infrastructure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Support Services .18
Institution Strengthening . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture  . .    18
Regional Office of the Bureau of Forest
Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Regional Office of the Bureau of Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regional Projects Office  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Training and Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . .    19
Research. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November
1982, consisting of David Parbery, Wayne Ringlien, Robert Hindle, Abate
Menkir, Takeichi Ishikawa, and Robert Hecht (Bank); Bill Bilbo and Philip
Pryke (consultants).



Page No.
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .. .       ..... ......   . ..20
Cost Estimates  . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Procurement .  . . . . .               .        ..22
Disbursement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Accounts and Audit  . . ,, ... .  .    .  .  .    .......   .    25
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ... .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    25
Regional Development Council  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Regional Project Office .             .. .26
Site Management Units. ..                  .     . .27
Client Associations . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Regional Office of BFD      . . . . ..29
Regional Office of MA .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
Regional Office of BFAR .                  .30
Provincial Engineers' Offices . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Production . . . . . . .    .31
Marketing . . . . . . .37
Prices . . . . . . . .   .40
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Benefits . . . . . . . .    .41
Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
Justification .   . . . . .                ...44
Risks ...                                       .. 46
Cost Recovery ..  .    . .                                     47
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ANI) RECOMMENDAT:[ON  . . . . . . . .    47
TABLES IN THE TEXT
4.1:  Project Cost Summary  . . . .. . ........ .     .       . . . . .   21
4.2:  Project Financing by Activity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
6.1:  Project Stewardship Contracts by Site and Year  . . . . . . .    32
6.2:  Project Participant Families by Site  . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
6.3:  Incremental Production from Upland Agricu:Lture at Full
Development . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       35
7.1:  Family Income by Production Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
7.2:  Summary of Rate of Return Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
Annex 2, Table 1: Land Classification and Popu:Lation, Project
Sites   .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   I    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  55



- iii -
ATTACHMENT
1. Procurement Arrangements
ANNEXES
1.  Regional Development Investment Program
2.  Regional and Project Setting
3.  Training and Technical Assistance
4.  Estimated IBRD Disbursements
5.  Project Implementation Schedule
6.  Input and Output Prices
7.  Economic Analysis
8.  Related Working Papers in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD #17219
IBRD #17031
IBRD #17032
IBRD #17033






I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested the Bank's assis-
tance to finance a project which forms the first part of a regional devel-
opment investment program in Central Visayas. The project is designed to
raise rural incomes in four poor watersheds in this relatively backward
region through the establishment of systems of resource management. These
would include rehabilitation and conservation, to arrest degradation of the
farming, forest and fishery resources in upland and nearshore habitats. It
would also support institutional changes to help implement Government's
policy of decentralization of responsibility for programs of economic
development.
Rural Sector
1.02      Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about 30% of gross domestic product (GDP), 60% of foreign
exchange earnings and over half the total employment. Although agricul-
ture's share of GDP is falling, food production rose during the 1970s at an
average of 7% p.a. This was achieved by the introduction of high yielding
crop varieties and technical packages coupled with improved extension and
farm credit and, to a lesser extent, irrigation. Most of these initiatives
were directed at rice and corn production, which together account for about
one third of the value of agricultural production, two thirds of rural
employment, and over half of the cropped area.
1.03      Rice is the primary staple of over 80% of the population, and
accounts for about 30% of the cropped area. The Masagana 99 program, which
was launched in the early 1970s, played a significant role in helping the
country achieve rice self-sufficiency in 1977. Since then, the Philippines
has exported small quantities of rice each year except in 1981, when adverse
weather and lower prices limited production to about the level of
consumption.
1.04      Corn is the primary staple of a sixth of the population and the
main feed component for the livestock industry. A recent breakthrough in
developing varieties resistant to downy mildew offers the prospect that corn
yields, now among the lowest in Asia at under one ton per ha, might rise
enough to eliminate the growing need for corn imports, and eventually
provide some exports.
1.05      Coconut and sugarcane are the third and fourth most important
crops, both major foreign exchange earners whose profitability and
production depend on world prices which fluctuate widely and are currently
depressed.



- 2 -
1.06       About 70% of the country's population lives in rural areas, where
nearly two thirds of the households depend on small farms for most of their
income. About 85% of the 2.35 million farms in the Philippines are smaller
than 5 ha.  The average farm size is estimated to be 2.7 ha.  About 58% of
farmers own their land, 30% are share tenants, and the remaining 12%,
excluding squatters, have a variety of tenancy arrangements including lease-
holding. About 40% of all rural households subsist below the absolute
poverty income level of US$204 per capita (in 1983 prices).
1.07       Population pressure has r esulted in marginal lands being brought
under cultivation, and most future increases in production must come from
higher yields on existing crop land. At present, high prices inhibit the
use of yield-enhancing fertilizers and crop protection chemicals; supporting
services of research, extension, marketing and training are often inade-
quate; formal credit is limited and informal credit expensive; and insecure
land tenure limits many farmers' willingness or ability to adopt innovations
in production. Higher cropping intensities are also constrained by existing
low yielding crop varieties and inadequacy of water from rainfall or
irrigation. A large part of the agricultural area consists of sloping land
of marginal quality which, together with the current exploitive land use
practices, is reducing productivitvy even further.
Support Services and Institutions
1.08       Both the private and public sectors are actively involved in
serving the farming sector through the provision of inputs and services.
The private sector imports, produces, and distributes fertilizers, pesti-
cides, feedstuffs and veterinary supplies, which are distributed by more
than 2,000 licensed dealers through retail outlets in every municipality of
the country. Some dealers advance credit for farm inputs and others provide
technical advice, including farm trial plots. The private sector also plays
the major role in purchasing, processing, and diistributing marketed farm
produce. Even when government commodity agencies exist, such as the
Philippine Coconut Authority, private traders often act as intermediaries
between farmers and the agencies.   Private rural banks, often owned by
local residents, provide about 12% of farm production credit.
1.09       The public sector is actively involvecl in policy planning and
implementation, research and training, and agricultural extension. Within
the Government, responsibility for the agricultural sector is divided among
several ministries and other agenci-es not under the direct control of the
principal sector ministries. There is an urgent: need to rationalize the
multiple ministries, agencies and committees involved in the sector and
delineate responsibilities, roles and tasks in order to avoid duplication of
services.



- 3 -
1.10      The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is primarily responsible for
crops, soils, livestock, applied research and extension services; production
of improved seed, plant material and animal breeds; plant and animal disease
control; and farmer cooperatives. In accordance with the policy of decen-
tralizing government services, 12 regional offices of MA were created in
1980 to improve services to the regions./I The Ministry has five related
agencies /2 under administrative supervision, and another 12 attached
agencies /3 whose role is to promote crop production or control aspects of
agricultural development.  The Minister chairs a coordinating body, the
National Food and Agricultural Council (NFAC) which, since its inception in
1969, has been the implementor of food self-sufficiency programs such as
Masagana 99 (rice) and Maisan 77, 99 and 22 (corn), Gulayan sa Kalusugan
(vegetables), Bakahyong Barangay (Carabeef), Gatasang Barangay (dairy), and
Biyayang Dagat (blue revolution). Late in 1981, it was mandated to execute a
new national rice and corn production program (Maisagana).
1.11      The Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) is responsible for
forestry, fisheries, lands and mining. Responsibility for the control of
forest resources, reforestation and forest management rests with the Bureau
of Forest Development (BFD). Responsibility for fisheries is vested in the
Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) for regulation, research,
extension and statistics. Land surveying and classification are the
responsibilities of the Bureau of Lands. Unlike MA, the Ministry has not
been reorganized regionally. However, its Bureaus all have regional
offices. Besides its Bureaus, MNR also has six agricultural agencies /4
attached for policy and program coordination.
/1 Authorized by Presidential Decree No. 1579, June 1978. Responsibilities
are set out in MA Administrative Order No. 2, Series of 1981.
/2 Green Revolution Expanded Program Action Committee, Livestock
Development Council, National Artificial Rain Stimulation Committee,
National Food and Agricultural Council, and National Meat Inspection
Commission.
/3 Abaca Industry Development Authority, Coconut Investment Company,
Fertilizer arid Pesticide Authority, Pagkian ng bayan National Advisory
Council (Food for the Needy), Philippine Agricultural Training Council,
Philippine Cotton Corporation, Philippine Dairy Corporation, Philippine
Tobacco Administration, Philippine Training Center for Rural Develop-
ment, Philippine Virginia Tobacco Administration, Philippine Virginia
Tobacco Board, and Presidential Committee on Agricultural Credit.
/4 Commission on the Settlement of Land Problems, Fishery Industry
Development Council, Forest Research Institute, Natural Resources
Development and Management Council, Philippine Fisheries Development
Authority, and Presidential Committee on Wood Industries Development.



- 4 -
1.12      The Ministry of Agrarian Reform carries; out the country-s rural
reform program applicable to rice and corn land. The development, operation
and maintenance of all national irrigation systems in the Philippines is the
responsibility of the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), a government
corporation organized under the Ministry of Public Works and Highways
(MPWH). The organization of communal irrigation schemes is the joint
responsibility of the Farm Systems Development Corporation, which answers to
the Ministry of Human Settlements, and NIA. The National Food Authority
(NFA) acts as a residual buyer of grains, and through Food Terminal Inc.,
its wholly owned subsidiary, also handles other food commodities such as
vegetables, poultry, eggs, fish, oil, sugar and milk. It has a mandate to
stabilize food prices, maintain food reserves and control grain imports and
exports. NFA is under the Office of the President and the administrator has
ministerial rank. Other important bodies under the President's Office are
the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA) and the Philippine Sugar Commission.
Formerly, each of these organizations received funds from industry levies
which enabled them to operate independently of the ministries although,
recently, depressed copra prices have changed the status of PCA.
Government Objectives and Strategy
1.13      The Government-s latest (1983-87) five-year development: plan sets
general objectives of high growth, greater resource mobilization, reduced
income disparities and improved environmental quality. All of these apply
to rural development, but specific goals most relevant to the agricultural
sector are poverty reduction, continued rice self-sufficiency and more
diversified agricultural production. These goals are closely interlinked,
since policies aimed at achieving one goal inevitably affect the others.
Recognizing this, the Government has placed most of its agricultural sector
investments in infrastructure-building to support the broadest range of
economic activities, while launching specific programs to address particular
problems. The specific programs include land tenure reform, crop research,
and a wide range of crop production programs combining credit, input supply
and/or technical support. The infrastructure investments emphasize rural
electrification, irrigation and roads.
Experience with Past Lending
1.14      A total of 38 loans and credits have been granted to the
Philippines for investments in agriculture, fisheries and rural development.
Of these loans, 12 were for irrigation development or rehabilitation and
another 12 were for agricultural credit. The current rural portfolio will
comprise, by the end of 1983, 20 projects including seven for area
development, five for irrigation, three for support services, two for
agricultural credit, and three others for watershed management, fisheries
and treecrops.



1.15       The experience with lending for agriculture has been mixed.  The
lending portfolio has reflected well the major objectives and priorities of
national development plans./l Developments in irrigation have been posi-
tive, including the establishment of a strong institution (NIA) and an
expansion of irrigated crop lands. In credit, operations have been largely
successful in providing funds for onfarm investment, but serious institu-
tional and loan recovery problems remain. Ongoing area development projects
such as Mindoro Rural Development (Loan 1102-PlH), Land Settlement I (Loan
1421-PH), Samar Island Rural Development (Loan 1772-PH), and Rainfed
Agricultural Development (Loan 1815-Pll) have encountered implementation
delays due to problems of interagency coordination and lack of authority at
the local level but, nevertheless, appear likely to attain their objectives.
II. REGIONALIZATION
Historical Background
2.01       Regionalization in the Philippines dates back to 1954 when the
Government Survey and Reorganization Commission (GSRC) was established. One
of its plans, adopted in 1956 but never fully implemented, divided the
country into eight administrative regions to promote decentralization of
government functions. During the 1960s, several development authorities
were created to implement regional and subregional projects, but control of
their operations remained largely centralized in Manila.
2.02       In 1968, a major reorganization of Government resulted in replace-
ment of the GSRC by the Philippine Commission on Reorganization (PCR) which
produced the Integrated Reorganization Plan (IRP) enacted into law in
September 1972 under Presidential Decree No. 1, the first decree to be
signed by the President after the imposition of martial law earlier in the
month. The plan provided for the creation of a National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA) to be responsible for national economic
planning and for implementing the regionalization program set down in the
IRP. The NEDA took over the functions of the National Economic Council, the
Presidential Economic Staff, and various ad hoc entities and councils
involved in economic planning, all of which were abolished.
2.03      Many factors were considered in defining the regions and selecting
regional centers including geographic, economic, ethnic, demographic and
/1 Sector Operations Review: Agricultural and Rural Development Program
in the Philippines. Operations Evaluation Department Report No. 3796.
February 10, 1982.



- 6 -
political characteristics. In 1970, PCR recommended ten regions. However,
the number was increased to 11 when the draft IRP was presented to Congress
and PD No. 1 described 11 regions. The number increased to 12 in 1975 with
the creation of Southern Mindanao (Region XII). In 1976, the regions were
increased to 13 with the division of Region IV into Metro Manila (Region IV)
and Southern Tagalog (Region IV-A). Subsequently, in 1978 Region IV became
the National Capital Region, and Region IV-A became Region IV. The 12
regions, excluding the National Capital Region, comprise 73 provinces and 56
cities.
2.04      The NEDA was regionalized as soon as it was formed and its
Regional Development Staff set up Regional Development Councils (RDCs)
during the period 1973-75. The functions and membership of the RDCs were
described in Letter of Instruction (LOI) No. 22./1 They were established to
facilitate regional planning and representation in lawmaking bodies,/2 and
to coordinate all planning and programming activities of local and national
bodies at the regional level.
2.05      Regionalization required Ministries to establish regional offices
with adequate powers to act over a wide range of administrative matters
designed to improve public services. Regionalization was also designed to
make the regions focal points for planning and development and to encourage
identification of projects at the local level for incorporation into
national programs. In 1976, a system of regional budgeting was instituted
to provide a link with regional planning. It provided that regional offices
develop their budgets to conform with RDC priorities, and that the Ministry
of the Budget (MB) advise the RDC of budgetary releases to regional offices.
The RDCs were strengthened in 1977 and 1978 when additional budgetary and
administrative powers were transferred to them.
2.06      A major political innovation in 1978 was the adoption of regional
representation in the national lawmaking body, the Batasang Pambansa.
/1 Current RDC membership comprises provincial governors; chartered city
mayors; assemblymen; regional directors of the Ministries of Agrarian
Reform, Agriculture, Education, Health, Human Settlements, Labor, Local
Government, Public Works and Highways, and Social Services; President of
the Barangay Captains- Association; Commander of the Philippine
Constabulary; General Managers of regionally located development
authorities; and a NEDA representative. A smaller Executive Committee
deals with operational aspects of regional planning and budgeting. RDC
membership reflects the Board composition of NEDA Central.
/2 Subsequently, in 1981, the judiciary was reorganized into 13 regional
courts under the Judiciary Reorganization Act of 1980.



- 7 -
Representatives sit on the RDCs as invited members. Subsequently, the
Sangguniang Pampook or Regional Assembly, and the Lupong Tagapagpaganap ng
Pook or Regional Executive Council, were created in the newly declared
"autonomous" Regions IX and XII in deference to their special ethnic and
religious characteristics. The Assemblies are designed to exercise legis-
lative power and the Executive Councils act as the executive arm of regional
Government. The two Councils were merged in 1982. The administrative
structure in the two "autonomous" regions, and the emergence of the National
Capital Region, based on the older Metropolitan Manila Commission, indicated
by their respective statutes some characteristics of local governments
including the power to tax.
Present Situation
2.07       At present, there are 15 ministries /1 with ministry-wide regional
offices.  An additional four ministries /2 havTebureau-wide regional
offices.  Two others /3 have partial regional representation.  Surveys in
1975, 1977, 1978, and 1981, administered by PCR, have indicated that
"regionalization" is interpreted differently in the various ministries and
that stipulated administrative powers have not been fully delegated in most
cases.  The Government is urging that the designated powers be fully
delegated, and that additional administrative powers for the regional
directors be implemented during 1983, including more direct budgeting,
contracting, accounting, and staff control.
2.08       The Ministry of Budget (MB) has been requiring ministries to
identify their programs on a regional basis. In 1977, MB initiated regional
budget hearings wherein regional offices of national government agencies
presented their proposals together with RDC comments. Currently, about 30
percent of the national budget is designated for regionally formulated
expenditure.
Planning and Development
2.09       With assistance from a Bank-executed UNDP-financed technical
assistance project,/4 the NEDA produced in 1977 the first national and
/1 Agrarian Reform; Agriculture; Budget and Management; Education, Culture
and Sports; Health; Human Settlements; Labor; Local Government; Media
Affairs; National Defense; NEDA; National Science-and Technology
Authority; Public Works and Highways; Social Services and Development;
and Trade and Industry.
/2 Finance, Justice, Natural Resources, Transportation and Communications.
/3 Tourism and Muslim Affairs.
/4 NEDA-UNDP/IBRD Technical Assistance Project on Regional Planning and
Development, 1975-present.



regional five-year, 10-year and year 2000 development plans.  The Government
and the Bank agreed in 1977, to formulate a regional development program for
the Central Visayas (Region VII). As a result, Region VII became a pioneer
area for regional development. In line with methodology stipulated in the
five-year plan, an area development strategy was adopted to formulate a
Regional Development Investment Program (RDIP) (Annex 1) which could be
replicated in other regions. The in-country work was supported by a Bank
mission in 1978 which set guidelinies for the first Bank-supported regional
project in the Philippines./l
2.10      As a result of the successful experimental preparation of a RDIP
in Region VII, which became the basis for the Central Visayas regional
project, the President instructed the other regions to prepare similar
programs./2 NEDA, in collaborationl with the RDCs, began preparation of the
other RD1Ps during the latter half of 1978 as a means of translating the
five-year regional development plans into projects. Draft RDIPs were
completed for all 12 regions by thes end of 1980. They are to serve as the
basis for public sector resource a:Llocations to the regions, and all
development activities of the national government, semi-government bodies,
and local governments are to be made consistent with them.
2.11      The regional five-year pLans were revised in 1982 for the second
five-year period (1983-87). The RDIPs are currently being updated and will
become the basis of future regionaL projects as well as the basis for
regional budgeting which is being introduced by MB. In 1981, under a joint
NEDA/MB instruction, Annual Investment Programs (AIPs) were defined for each
region. After RDC approval, the A[Ps were submitted to NEDA central for
consolidation, and to MB for integration into the national budget. RDIP
projects can be submitted for external funding by the Development Budget
Coordinating Committee of MB, as is the case for Central Visayas.
2.12      Despite the progress noted above, the RDCs remain limited in their
influence over regional development as they have no supervisory authority
over the regional offices of line agencies, local governments or statutory
bodies operating in the regions, such as the National Council on Integrated
Area Development (NACIAD), nor do they have substantial budget resources of
their own to fund projects.  They do, however, receive small allocations
from the Regional Development Fund - a line item in the national budget
which so far has not received significant funding. At the present time, the
Government is considering a linkage between the RDCs and NEDA with the Prime
/1 The Philippines: A development strategy and investment priorities for
the Central Visayas (Region VII). Two volumes. World Bank Report
No. 2264-PH. January 4, 1979.
/2 Adopting the Regional Development Investment Program as the implementing
framework of the Five-Year Regional Development Plan. Presidential
Executive Order No. 589. April 19, 1980.



- 9 -
Minister's Office, created after the 1978 national election, through a
Council of RDC Chairmen. They would be redesignated as Regional
Commissioners or Administrators with enhanced powers, to be jointly respon-
sible for overall coordination of regional planning and development. The
alliance would also incorporate NACIAD which transferred to the Prime
Minister's Office during 1982.
Central Visayas (Region VII)
2.13      The Central Visayas Region comprises the island provinces of Cebu,
Bohol, Siquijor, Negros Oriental (eastern Negros) and a number of smaller,
minor islands (Map #17219). The Region has a limited agricultural potential
due mainly to its rugged and inaccessible topography, but possesses exten-
sive mineral reserves (Annex 2): 27% of the nation's copper, substantial
deposits of limestone and clay suitable for cement, and coal. The Region
accounts for only 6% of the total national gross value added in agriculture
(including fisheries and forestry), but 26% of the gross value added in
mining and quarrying. Agriculture's share of gross regional product (GRP)
has dropped from 25% in 1978 to 20% in 1980, while the industrial sector's
share has increased from 30% of GRP in 1978 to 34% in 1980. The share of
GRP contributed by services has remained static at around 45%.
2.14      Over the years, the pattern of land use in the Central Visayas has
been characterized by insecurity of tenure which leads to short-term,
low-cost production strategies, and inequities due to conflicting policies
of government agencies regarding land allocations for fish ponds, grazing
and logging. In turn, this has led to deterioration of the natural resource
base and perpetuated poverty for thousands of settlers on forest land,
uplands, and nearshore areas - constituting 46% of the Region's area.
2.15      The Region has pioneered a land stewardship program under which
leases are granted to present land occupants. Stewardship contracts provide
settlers with security of tenure, for 25 years extendable to 50, on condi-
tion of compliance with a resource management plan, which would be evaluated
periodically. To support the stewardship policy, larger scale concessions
on public lands within the Region for fish ponding, timber cutting and
grazing have become more difficult to obtain.
2.16      The concept of land stewardship for the occupants of public lands
was developed during the preparation of the proposed project. It builds on
the existing forest occupancy management program, and received so much
favorable attention at the national level that the President ordered a
national stewardship program. The regional office of the Bureau of Forest
Development (RBFD) has drafted an administrative order for issuing
stewardship contracts, as part of the Region's innovative "Integrated Social
Forestry Program."



- 10 -
2.17      The Bank's review of poverty in the Philippines /1 identified the
Region as the second poorest (after Region X - Northern Mindanao) having an
average poverty incidence /2 of almost 60% in 1975, with urban poverty at
52.5% and rural at 62.6%, compared with 45%, 40% and 47.5%, respectively,
for the country as a whole. The Region ranks among the poorest in the
Philippines in terms of per capita distribution of arable land and agricul-
tural productivity.  For these reasons the Region was chosen in 1977 by the
national Government for implementation of the nation's first regional
project. Northern Mindanao has been nominated as the second.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Preparation
3.01      The Central Visayas Regional Project (CVRP) was conceived origi-
nally as a single, multi-sectoral investment program in support of the RDIP.
In early 1981, it was agreed that the project should be processed as two
separate, but related, rural and urban projects. Technical preparation
of the rural project began in 1981 following the creation of the Central
Visayas Urban and Rural Project Office,/3 the first region-based project
preparation unit to be established in the Philippines.
3.02      The preparation of the rural project continued from mid-1981
through 1982, when a report /4 was presented to the Bank. Preparation was
financed in part by a US$500,000 Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance
(PO36-PH) from the Bank. A work plan for pre-implementation, between
appraisal and loan effectiveness, is being financed in part from a second
PPF advance (P055-PH) of US$500,000. Preparation of the urban project is
being funded in part from a US$8 million Engineering Loan (Ln 2067-PH) and
appraisal is scheduled later in 1983.
/1 Aspects of poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment.
World Bank Report No. 2984-PH. December 1, 1980.
/2 Poverty incidence was measured against poverty lines based on the 1975
family income and expenditure survey: rural poverty line at e 827 per
capita, and urban poverty line at P 1,103 per capita.
/3 Presidential Executive Order No. 694 creating the Central Visayas Urban
and Rural Projects Office and providing funds thereon, May 21, 1981.
/4 Philippines: Central Visayas Resource Management Project. Project
Preparation Report. Four Volumes. CVRPO. September 9, 1982 (Project
Working Paper No. 10).



- 11 -
3.03      Preparation of the rural project was assisted by three FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program missions which visited the Region in January/February
and June/July, 1981 and May/June, 1982. The project's lengthy preparation
period can be attributed to the innovative nature of the work, the lack of
project preparation capability in the Region which had to be developed from
scratch, and the slow resolution of disagreements among regional and
national entities as to what should constitute the "regional project."
3.04      Initially, the rural project was to be region-wide, benefiting
each municipality (Annex 1). However, it became apparent that resources
which could realistically be mobilized were not sufficient to support a
region-wide program. Regional needs were scrutinized and a modified and
curtailed area approach was adopted focused on the watershed, i.e. on
small farmers, particularly forest and upland occupants, and nearshore
fishermen in distinct units.
3.05      The original project proposal covered 12 watershed sites in the
four provinces of Cebu, Negros Oriental, Bohol and Siquijor. The sites had
a total area of 265,000 ha and a population of 400,000 with implementation
scheduled over six years. Owing to budgetary constraints and the
realization that the proposed new procedures for regional development need
testing, the Government reduced the initial project to five sites. However,
the Government has requested that the remaining seven sites be considered in
a subsequent project after the first has been evaluated.
3.06      The revised project is based on the following principles:
(a) a burgeoning population's demand for food and raw materials has
outpaced the ability of the soil, forest and marine habitats to
regenerate their productive capacities; the system needs to be
changed from exploitive to self-regenerative and the project's
production models have been developed accordingly;
(b) the maintenance of sustained yields over time requires that
producers have secure tenure over their production units. The
project's concepts of 50-year stewardship contracts and
smallholder forest operations are designed to meet this
requirement; and
(c) resource management practices and their delivery must be respon-
sive to the socioeconomic needs of project participants and
appropriate to the biophysical conditions of the sites. To
achieve integration at the farm level, and because the Region
has a limited agricultural resource base, but a substantial
forestry and fisheries potential, the watershed was chosen as
the planning unit rather than the municipality. The project is
to be managed by units located on the sites, easily accessible
to participants, and responsive to local needs and priorities.



- 12 -
B. Objectives
3.07      The project, on a pilot scale, addresses the two most important
rural problems in the Region: declining productivity in upland and near-
shore areas due to continuing environmental degradation, and the associated
poverty of the rural population.  It is intended to demonstrate "replica-
bility" for adoption elsewhere in Region VII, and in other Regions.
Strengthening the resource management capabilities of both Government and
small farmers and fishermen would be part of the first phase of a long-term
regional development program which aims to develop institutional capability
for project development and management.
3.08      Specifically, over a five-year invastment period beginning in
FY84, the project would:
(a)  raise the incomes and living standards of poor, small-scale
producers in project areas, particularly upland farmers
and artisanal fishermen;
(b)  improve the management of the forest, upland, and nearshore
habitats in these areas, both by arresting the rapid degradation
of the environment and augmienting the resource base; and
(c)  reinforce the Government's regionalization program, set out in
the IRP (para. 2.02), to ensure greater administrative and
budgetary autonomy for the Region, direct and timely flow of
development funds, maximum financial accountability by project
managers and staff, and maximum participation by local
officials and beneficiaries.
3.09      The project would improve the tenure status of upland occupants,
facilitate construction of upland conservation works and upgrade agrofores-
try, agricultural, livestock and fisheries production systems. Access roads
and trails would be constructed or upgraded. Support institutions would be
strengthened and the project would fund specialized training, technical
assistance and research in support of the production activities, and prepar-
ation activities for future projects.
C. Detailed Features
3.10      The project would be implemented in five sites (Map #17031),
consisting of watershed managment programs in each of four provinces and a
social forestry site in Negros Oriental Province. The sites involve a total
land area of 140,000 ha, a coastline of 200 km and a population of about
200,000 (Annex 2). Project sites were selected according to provincial
development priorities, relative poverty of inhabitants, degree of ecologi-
cal degradation, development opportunities including public land availabil-
ity, and attitudes of the people toward development.



- 13 -
Watershed Management (US$20.4 million)
Upland Agriculture
3.11      The component is designed to develop and manage four watersheds/i
and create within the Region the institutional capability to plan and
develop others. A major goal is to assist upland farmers in a transforma-
tion from shifting cultivation of annual crops which causes serious soil
erosion to stable systems utilizing perennials, livestock and reduced annual
cropping by offering them security of tenure over their land.
3.12      Farm systems would be introduced to control soil erosion, increase
soil water retention, boost soil fertility, intensify land use, increase
perennial and annual crop production, and increase livestock production.
Planting materials and livestock would be the main investment items but hand
tools and small quantities of agricultural chemicals would be included
(Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 1, and Working Paper No. 1).
3.13      Nurseries established under the project would supply planting
material for appropriate and profitable crops which fit the overall water-
shed management approach. Perennial tree crops such as ipil-ipil, mango,
jackfruit, cashewnut, and avocado would be promoted. Planting material
would be provided as payment in-kind for soil conservation and replanting
work according to farm development plans conceived with, and supervised by,
project technical staff. Farmers would also be paid in-kind by the provi-
sion of young cattle and goats once adequate shelter and fodder reserves
have been established. About 11,600 cattle and goats would be distributed
under the project. As the value of the in-kind payments is equivalent to
the economic value of the work undertaken, there is no implied subsidy to
farmers.
3.14      Management units would be established at each site including
buildings, equipment, vehicles, staff, travel, materials, maintenance,
consultancies and contracts (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 2). Each
unit would include 4 to 5 ha for buildings, a plant nursery and stock
holding facilities.
Social Forestry
3.15      The social forestry site is under government control and had a
stable population of approximately 450 occupant families before the timber
license agreement was cancelled in 1979, when approximately 750 slash-and-
burn farmers (kaingin) entered the forest and claimed land. Further
incursions have occurred subsequently. The influx has resulted in the
denudation of forests areas and reforestation blocks. Illegal forest
occupants are destroying logged-over areas which are drier and burn readily.
/1 Watershed is defined as the river system, from its land source to its
sea outlet.



- 14 -
3.16       A timber evaluation study of the site showed that about 750 ha of
virgin forest and 8,000 ha of logged-over area remain and need to be main-
tained, although an additional 7,153 ha have already been converted to open
cogon grassland. The soils are relatively shallow, derived from volcanic
and sedimentary rocks. Occupants farm small plots, and gather secondary
products from the remaining forest.  They are poor and social unr est has
been a growing problem since the late 1970s.
3.17       The main constraint to forest recovery in the open land is the
intentional or careless burning of young trees by forest occupants to open
up land to meet their subsistence needs. In the past, RBFD has used guards
to dislodge the slash-and-burn intruders from logged-over areas thus
reducing fire destruction of reforested areas but this practice incurred the
wrath of displaced settlers and is no longer being practiced actively.
3.18       The objective of the social forestry component is to improve liv-
ing conditions for poor families occupying government timber land by creat-
ing employment and increasing incomes, and to conserve forests by reducing
destruction of logged-over forests and implementing reforestation to prevent
erosion under land stewardship agreements with Government which offer the
settlers security of tenure over their land. The forestry component has two
main activities: forest stand improvement and reforestation. The first
would be implemented on the logged-over forest ar-ea of about 8,000 ha which
is beginning to regenerate. The reforestation program would be executed on
about 8,000 ha of grass, brush and cultivated area: about 5,000 ha for
reforestation and the balance for subsistence cropping.
3.19       Forest Stand Improvement (FSI).  The cutting of virgin forest has
resulted in the rapid growth of weeds, vines and other minor vegetation
which hamper the growth and development of seedlings and young trees. FSI
involves the thinning of crowded young trees and the cutting of defective or
deformed trees; the cut wood is used for firewood, lumber and posts. Under
the project, forest stewardship groups, comprised of reforestation partici-
pants, would guard against intrusion into the logged-over areas.  The groups
would be allocated an area for FSI operations as follows: 8 ha per family
to be worked in stages (1.6 ha annually over five years).  Cut wood would be
processed into firewood, lumber and posts by hand tools and sold, providing
an additional incentive for settlers to join the program. In addition to
providing income to project participants, thinning would encourage healthy
wood growth.
3.20       Reforestation.  Each farmer would be allocated 5 ha of open cogon
grassland and participants would be organized into forest stewardship
groups; each participant would be granted a stewardship contract over his
land. A total area of 5,000 ha of open cogon land would be developed. Con-
tract planting using individual family labor, and community tree farming
using communal labor, would be utilized. The project would support invest-
ments in seedlings, fertilizer, herbicides, tools and fire prevention
equipment (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 3, and Working Paper No. 2).



- 15 -
3.21      A management unit would be established in the social forestry site
including investments in buildings, vehicles, equipment (including that for
fire prevention) and materials. Provision would be made for staff salaries
and allowances, and maintenance. A tree nursery would also be established
to service the project (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Tables 4 and 5). The
unit would provide seedlings and materials. Under community tree farming,
the trees planted would belong to the farmers and maintenance would be their
responsibility. Under the reforestation scheme, intercropping of annuals
would be encouraged. The income from planted trees and intercropping would
be an incentive to the occupants to prevent fire.
3.22      Under family contract planting, trees would belong to the Govern-
ment and the management unit would pay wages to the occupants based on the
number of seedlings which survive. Responsibility for fire prevention would
rest with participating farmers, i.e., if young trees were burned, the SMU
would recover their cost, so participants would have an incentive to main-
tain planted seedlings. Planting payment would be made as follows: 70% of
the labor cost in each year would be paid at planting and 30% would be paid
approximately nine months after planting. Both payments would be based on
the number of trees surviving.
Nearshore Fisheries
3.23      The nearshore fisheries component comprises:
(a) establishment, and allocation of user rights to cooperating
families, of a system of artificial reefs, the technology for
which has already been tested in the Region, in the waters
adjacent to three upland agriculture sites in Cebu, Siquijor
and Bohol Provinces and the forestry site in Negros Oriental;
(b) replanting of mangroves, in areas where they have been cleared,
and allocating use rights to the replanted areas, at the four
sites; and
(c) establishment of coral reef sanctuaries in the four sites.
3.24      The four sites have an aggregate coastline of about 200 km with
150 km of fringing reefs, 10,000 ha of mangrove and about 8,000 fishing
households. Some 7,000 bancas (fishing boats), of which 1,570 (22%) are
motorized, operate in the project areas.
3.25      Artificial Reefs.  The project would establish artificial reefs
over 114 km in the four sites. Use rights would be conferred on full-time
municipal fishermen, preferably the poorer ones, those without motorized
bancas. Families would be assisted in the siting and construction of reef
production units so that four families would benefit from each km of
artificial reef. The project would provide reef construction materials, a



- 16 -
nonmotorized barge suitable for transporting artificial reef modules from
the beach assembly point to placement locations, a motorized banca with fuel
for towing the barge, construction tools and staff to assist with construc-
tion (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 6, and Working Paper No. 3). Each
participating family would provide additional labor for establishment and
carry a share of the expense of reef replacement which could begin in the
fifth year after placement. Each site and beneficiary would be registered
with the local municipality under a renewable permit system similar to that
used for stationary fish cages. Permit renewal would depend on the
participant restoring his part of the reef.
3.26      Mangrove Replanting.  About 650 ha in the four sites would be
divided into 2 ha blocks and leased by the Regional Office of the Bureau of
Forest Development (RBFD) under stewardship contract to families responsible
for mangrove replanting.  They would 'be paid for their labor and be granted
user rights as incentives to join the program. Again, preference would be
given to full-time fishermen without motorized bancas.  Mangrove replanting
by families would be supervised by the community development workers
according to block plans worked out with each family. The project would
include seed collection from existing mangrove areas to provide seedlings
for replanting.
3.27      Reef Sanctuaries.  In conjunction with artificial reef development
and mangrove replanting, the coastal population would be educated on the
importance of healthy reefs and mangrove stands in restoring and maintaining
fish production. After the above programs had been established, probably by
the fourth year of the project, local people would be assisted to identify
and establish sanctuary areas in cooperation with municipal authorities.
The project would provide reef marker buoys, anchor wraps and anchors and
assist in their placement (Annex 8 - lWorking Paper No. 8, Table 6).
3.28      Subsite management units would be established at the four coastal
sites, including investments in buildings, equipment, vehicles, staff,
supplies and maintenance (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 7).
Infrastructure
3.29      In order to provide adequate access to the project sites and to
service the upland agriculture, forestry, and nearshore areas scheduled for
development, the project would support investments in rural roads and trails
(Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 8, and Working Paper No. 4). The
rural roads component (Maps #17032 and #17033) of the project includes:
(a) construction of about 97 km of new barangay (village) roads
and the improvement of about 125 km of existing roads under
local contracts; grading of about 475 km of trails under
piecework contract in the five project sites including the
nearshore locations; and maintenance of all project roads,
including spot improvement, under force account or contract
depending on local conditions;



- 1 7 -
(b) the procurement of equipment, vehicles, materials, and supplies
for the improvement and maintenance of barangay roads; and
(c) appointment of consultants to assist with route survey, the
preparation of detailed design, and road construction supervision.
3.30      Barangay Roads.  The project roads would have gravel surfaced
pavement for the operation of medium-sized trucks and light utility vehi-
cles. The geometric design standards would be similar to those prescribed
for the Rural Roads Improvement Project (Loan 1860-PH). For the improve-
ment of existing roads, the subgrade would be reformed to the original level
and adequately compacted prior to the placement of the gravel surface.
Embankment materials for new roads and sections of roads to be improved
would be obtained from adjacent cuts or from suitable borrow pits. Minor
drainage structures would consist of single or multiple reinforced concrete
pipe culverts. Crossings over major rivers and streams would be on 4 m
wide reinforced concrete deck girder bridges of standard spans. The major
drainage structures and bridges would have a free-board of 1 m above the
estimated maximum flood water level (within the last 10 years), and would be
designed and built to comply with MPWH specifications.
3.31      Graded Trails.  The project trails would facilitate access from
remote farms and agroforestry areas to roadsides and market centers. They
would be used by animal drawn carts and sleds for hauling agricultural
produce and for moving timber to sawmills. The trails would have a minimum
width of 1.50 m with widened sections of 3.00 m at about 50 m intervals to
allow for passing. Density would be about 1.5 to 2.0 km per 100 ha of
agroforestry area.
3.32      Status of Engineering.  Road planning, preliminary design studies
and cost estimates were prepared by CVRPO, the Provincial Engineers' Offices
and Provincial Development Staff assisted by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program. The project roads were identified and checked in the field in
consultation with prospective users and were classified into three groups
based on terrain conditions: flat, rolling and mountainous. The following
criteria were used for road evaluation and selection:
(a) project roads would provide access to roads of equal or better
standard and would not be less than 2 km in length;
(b) proposed roads would conform with the provincial road
development program and their service area would not overlap with
those of existing or other planned roads; and
(c) project roads would serve a minimum of two barangays and a
total population of 100 or more per km.



- 18 -
Support Services (US$7.1 million)
Institution Strengthening
3.33      As part of the support services component of the project, three
existing regional offices of two Ministries would be strengthened and one
new regional project management office would be established.  The Regional
Office of the Ministry of Agriculture (RMA) would provide soil and livestock
services; the Ministry of Natural Resources' (MNR) Regional Office of
the Bureau of Forest Development (RBFD) would contribute off-farm
reforestation and general regulatory services; and MNR's Regional Office of
the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic R7esources (RBFAR) would stregthen its
regulatory services to control illegal fishing. A new Regional Projects
Office (RPO) would be established to manage the project overall.
3.34      The Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture (RMA).  Both
off-farm and on-farm soil conservation works, designed to stabilize
erosion-prone areas of the watershed,, would include gully check dams made of
stones and earth, and banks planted to permanent vegetative cover.  Their
construction would be the responsibility of the management units with
technical assistance from RMA.
3.35      On-farm works would consist of contouring, including ditches and
bunds, the planting of erosion control vegetation and construction of small
check dams to reduce water flow according to farm development plans prepared
in collaboration with the farmers and the management units. RMA would be
provided funds for buildings and civil works, vehicles, equipment, staff,
travel and soil survey materials and operations to strengthen the service
(Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 9).
3.36      In order to provide livestock, cattle and goats, required under
the project, the Ministry's Ubay sto,ck farm on Bohol Island and the goat
breeding station at Siaton, Negros Oriental Province would be upgraded by
the provision of buildings, utilities, equipment, vehicles, pasture,
fencing, yards, supplies and stock (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table
10).
3.37      The Regional Office of the Bureau of Forest Development (RBFD) -
particularly its planning, regulatory and reforestation services - would be
strengthened to participate in the social forestry component of the project
and to develop additional social forestry programs in the Region.  It would be
provided funds to reforest land in the watersheds not required fcr forestry or
agricultural production. Additional staff, specialized buildings, equipment,
vehicles, and related expenditures would be provided under the project (Annex
8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 11). RBFD would also be provided with five
forest guards and motorized bancas to patrol the 5,000 ha of mangrove
wilderness and forest swamp preserve in northern Bohol. Part of the above
reforestation fund would be utilized for tree planting within the mangrove
preserves.



- 19 -
3.38     The Regional Office of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
(RBFAR) - particularly its regulatory services - would be strengthened to
control illegal fishing in the region. The office would be provided equip-
ment, staff, fuel oil and travel funds under the project to upgrade the
service (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 12).
3.39      A Regional Projects Office (RPO) has been established within the
Region, under the Prime Minister, to coordinate implementation of the project.
It is a new office and would be provided with staff, office equipment and
vehicles (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Table 12). No permanent building is
envisaged at the outset and office space would be rented.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.40      The training and technical assistance component would address two
related needs within the Region. First, there is a shortage of skilled
personnel qualified to implement watershed management activities; land
occupants also lack the knowledge and skills needed to adopt and practice
the innovative technology proposed. Second, facilities for training are
inadequate to accommodate project requirements.
3.41      The objectives of the training and technical assistance component
are to: improve the skills of project staff, farmers and fishermen, and
related line agency personnel; strengthen regional training facilities;
provide technical assistance and training from outside the Region as needed,
and generate additional data from special studies as required to enhance
project performance.
3.42      Training would cover 22 courses dealing with all aspects of the
project, since it is a major new undertaking, including 9 for project staff
and participants, and 13 for related line agency personnel. Study tours and
fellowships would be provided to complement project-funded training. A
total of 12 local study tours tours and 32 fellowships would be offered in
11 subjects (Annex 3, Table 1). Consultancies would be provided to assist
project and line agency staff implement the project. The project would fund
about 27 staff-years of consultant time covering all aspects of the work since
it is the country's first regional project, about one third of which would
come from overseas (Annex 3, Table 2), comprising studies on management,
agriculture including credit, forestry, fisheries, communal irrigation,
socioeconomics, and training materials development (Annex 8 - Working Paper
No. 8, Tables 13, 14 and 15).
Research
3.43      The project would support applied research aimed at improving
low-input farming systems for the slopes and uplands of the Region. Funds
would be provided to RMA to conduct on-farm trials in the project sites.
The Ministry's research focus would be on upland farm systems, including



- 20 -
annual and perennial crops and livest:ock, and the program would be
integrated with research by the Farm Systems and Soil Research Institute of
the University of the Philippines at Los Banos which is active in the
Region. Funds would also be providedl RMA to establish an upland research
station and to complement the Ministry's lowland research facilities on
Bohol Island which are being upgraded under another Bank-supported project
(Ln. 2040-PH: Agricultural Support Services). Forestry research would be
strengthened by funding an expanded program by the Regional Office of the
Forest Research Institute (RFORI) (Annex 8 - Working Paper No. 8, Tables 16
and 17).
Project Preparation (US$6.7 million)
3.44      The proposed loan would include repayment of two advances from the
Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which partly funded the prepara-
tion and preimplementation of the project.  Additional funds would be pro-
vided to assist preparation of other regional projects including a possible
second phase of the proposed project,, and for preimplementation of the second
Central Visayas Regional Project (Urban) due for appraisal in FY84 (Annex 8 -
Working Paper No. 8, Table 18).
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project cost is estirmated at US$44.4 million, of which
US$21.0 million would be in foreign exchange (Table 4.1), and including
taxes and duties representing about US$1.8 million equivalent (Annex 5,
Table 1). Expected price increases over the project period amount to about
25% of total base costs plus physica:lL contingencies; project costs reflect
price estimates at the date of loan negotiations (third quarter 1983).
Inflation of local costs was estimated at 12.0% for 1984, 8.0% for 1985, and
7% through 1990; inflation of foreign exchange costs was estimated at 7.5%
for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% thereafter.  Physical contingencies, at 5% of
base cost for buildings and 10% for equipment and civil works, have been
applied but not for on-farm development costs as these are based on actual
farming costs. Consultancies (US$1.4 million excluding contingencies),
including about 8 staff-years of overseas and 19 istaff-years of local
consultancies, are required to implemaent the project and are estimated to
cost on average about US$10,000 (including international travel and
subsistence) and US$1,700 per month, respectively. Detailed project costs
are provided in Project Working Paper No. 8 (Annex 8).
Financing
4.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$25.6 million, including the capita-
lized front-end fee of US$0.1 million would contribute 60% of total project



- 21 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total foreign
--- (P million) ---  -- (US$ million) --  exchange
Water shed Management
Upland agriculture                      63.9   11.9   75.8    4.6    0.8    5.4    15.7
Social forestry                         37.3    8.5   45.8    2.7    0.6    3.3    18.6
Nearshore fisheries                     11.3    4.8   16.1    0.8    0.3    1.1    29.9
Infrastructure                          50.7   97.7  148.4    3.6    7.0   10.6    65.8
Subtotal Watershed Management  163.2  122.9  286.1   11.7    8.7   20.4    42.6
Support Services
Institution strengthening
Ministry of Agriculture
Soil services                       6.0    2.5    8.5    0.4    0.2    0.6    29.9
Livestock dispersal                11.5    7.3   18.8    0.8    0.5    1.3    38.7
Ministry of Natural Resources         12.5    2.1   14.6    0.9    0.1    1.0    14.3
RBFD                                0.3    0.1    0.4    0.1    0.1    0.2    19.3
RBFAR                               7.4    2.9   10.3    0.5    0.2    0.7    28.4
Regional Projects Office
Training                                 4.1    2.4    6.5    0.3    0.2    0.5    37.1
Technical assistance                     8.6   11.7   20.3    0.6    0.8    1.4    57.6
Research                                13.7    5.5   19.2    1.0    0.4    1.4    28.5
Subtotal Support Services          64.1   34.5   98.6    4.6    2.5    7.1    35.0
Project preparation                       14.9   78.3   93.2    1.1    5.6    6.7    84.0
Total Baseline                    242.2  235.7  477.9   17.3   16.8   34.1    49.3
Physical contingencies                     6.4   12.6   19.0    0.5    0.9    1.4    66.7
Price contingencies                       78.8   44.6  123.4    5.6    3.2    8.8    36.2
Total Project                     327.4  292.9  620.3   23.4   20.9   44.3    47.2
Front-end Fee on Bank loan /a              -       0.9    0.9    -        0.1    0.1   100.0
Total Financing Required /b    327.4  293.8  621.2   23.4   21.0   44.4    47.3
/a Bank loan of US$25.6 million.
/b Figures rounded to nearest US$100,000.



- 22 -
cost, excluding taxes, and cover the total foreign exchange cost of US$21.0
million plus local costs equivalent to US$4.6 million (Table 4.2). The
remaining US$18.8 million would be provided by Government. The partial
coverage of local costs by Bank lending is designed to assist the Government
at a time of overall budgetary stringency.
4.03      Because of Government's current budgetary constraints, an
assurance was obtained at negotiations that the Government (MB) has
sufficient funds to begin implementation of the project in 1984. Annual
recurrent costs, subsequent to the project and for which the Government
would be entirely responsible after the fifth year, approximate US$3.3
million, inclusive of contingencies.
Procurement
4.04      Attachment 1 gives an overview of procurement arrangements for
the various project inputs. Construction equipment for the PEOs to be
utilized for road improvement and maintenance (US$0.9 million) and vehicles
(US$0.6 million) would be bulked where suitable and purchased through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Eligible domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% of the
c.i.f. price of the imported goods, or the import duty, whichever is lower.
The Provincial Engineers' Offices (PEOs) would prepare the appropriate
specifications and bidding documents for the construction equipment, and the
RPO would prepare documents for the vehicles.
4.05      Equipment (mostly hand tools) for on-site development of farming,
forestry and nearshore fisheries (US$1.4 million) as well as planting
materials, fertilizers, chemicals, and other materials (US$4.4 million) would
be purchased through local competitive bidding (1CB) in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; foreign suppliers are well represented
in the country and would be eligible to participate.  Other equipment
costing less than US$10,000 per lot but not more than US$150,000 in total
would be purchased by prudent shopping based on three price quotations.
4.06      Contracts for construction of new secondary roads, trails and stock
farm works (US$8.2 million) and civil works contracts for the construction
of buildings (US$1.4 million) would be awarded under LCB, because the small
size and dispersed location of the works would render them unsuiltable for
ICB; however, foreign contractors would not be precluded from bidding.
4.07      The improvement and maintenance of roads and watershed rehabili-
tation works would be carried out by, force account because of the remote
terrain, and consequently the problem of attracting contractors to the
upland sites. The construction of artificial reefs and nearshore works
would also be carried out by force account to ensure proper implementation
of the relatively new technologies. Work carried out under force account
would be limited to an aggregate amc,unt of US$500,000. Construction
materials and supplies would be procured through normal commercial channels.



- 23 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING BY ACTIVITY /a
(US$ million)
Government             IBRD             Total
Activity                        Amount        x        Amount      %        amount
Civil works and buildings         2.3        20          8.8       80        11.1
Equipment and vehicles            0.4        10          2.8        90        3.2
Production inputs,
livestock and materials         0.7        10         6.0        90         6.7
Salaries and allowances           8.3       100          -          -         8.3
Travel, maintenance and
office supplies                 4.3       100         -           -         4.3
Training and technical
assistance                      1.2        40          1.9       bO         3.1
Project preparation /b            1.6        20          6.0       80         7.6
Front-end fee                     -           -          0.1       100        0.1
Total                       18.8        42        25.6        58        44.4
/a  Inclusive of price and physical contingencies.
/b Including repayment of two advances from the Project Preparation Facility
totaling US$1.1 million with interest.



- 24
4.08       Livestock purchases (US$1.7 million) wou:Ld be procured by direct
purchase from local ranchers at prices agreed on by a review committee
comprising a representative from project management, RMA and the farmers.
4.09       Overseas consultants for technical assistance would be contracted
according to Bank guidelines.
4.10       Contract Review.  All bidding packages for goods and civil works
over US$100,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank (Attachment 1).
This would result in coverage of about 68% of amount of goods, and 75% of
civil works procurement. The balance of contracts would be subject to
random post reviews by Bank staff after contract award.
Disbursement
4.11       Disbursements from the loan would cover:
(a)  80% of civil works expenditures (US$8.8 million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles, construction equip-
ment, production inputs and materials; 100% of local expenditures
when locally manufactured (ex-factory); and 70% of other local
expenditures (US$8.8 million);
(c) 100% of foreign or 80% of local expenditures for consultants,
technical assistance, and overseas training (US$1.9 million);
(d)  100% of foreign or 80% of local expenditures for CVRP II (Urban)
and other regional project preparation activities (US$4.9 million);
(e)  refinancing of CVRP Project Preparation Facility advances
(US$1.1 million); and
(f)  the front-end fee (US$0.1 million).
4.12       Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account and for
locally purchased items costing less than US$10,000 under (b) above would be
made against statements of expenditure. Disbursernents for other expendi-
tures would be made against full documentation. All statements of expendi-
ture would be certified by the Project Manager and Financial Controller.
Supporting documents would be retaine!d in the RPO and made available for
review by Bank supervision missions.
4.13       A schedule of estimated disbursements is presented in Annex 4.
This is based on a six year disbursement period. Area development projects
have been slower to disburse (9 years) but the project has been reduced in
scope to pilot scale covering only five watersheds (para. 3.05); it is
anticipated that the other seven watersheds will constitute a second phase.
Further, the design of the proposed project departs significantly from
earlier models to speed implementation. For example, the project has been



- 25 -
given a strong preimplementation phase utilizing the PPF; it is nonintegrated
in that no component is dependent on any other; it has been provided with
direct funding and simplified management; and the technologies are known in
the Region. The investment schedule is presented in Annex 5.
Accounts and Audit
4.14      Consolidated project accounts would be maintained by the Financial
Controller in the RPO and be audited annually in line with established
practice for all Bank-assisted projects in the Philippines. The Controller
would also supervise accountants at each site unit and help train local
personnel in project procedures. Accounting experience at the regional and
provincial level is not extensive although both provincial and regional
offices have budget, accounting and audit staff. Nevertheless, the scale of
the proposed project is sufficiently large, and the accounting requirements
for statements of expenditure (SOE) are sufficiently rigorous, to require
accounting training. Therefore, the terms of reference for the Financial
Controller at the RPO would include establishment of an SOE accounting
system, acceptable to the Bank, immediately following his appointment.
4.15      The Financial Controller would submit through the Project Manager
certified copies of the audited accounts and auditors' reports to the Bank no
later than six months after the end of the Philippine fiscal year. The audit
report should certify that funds disbursed against SOE had been used for the
purpose for which they were provided. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that RPO would appoint a Project Financial Controller by May 31, 1984
who would follow the above accounting and auditing procedures and who would
forward to the Bank by June 30 each year, beginning in 1985, the project
accounts and auditors' reports for the Philippine fiscal year.
4.16      A revolving fund of up to $2.0 million would be established within
the Central Bank to expedite disbursements and help overcome current
budgetary constraints. The fund would cover all categories of expenditures
to be financed under the loan. It is a condition of loan effectiveness
that the revolving fund be established as a Special Account within the
Central Bank under the name of the Central Visayas Regional Project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      CVRP is the first major foreign-funded project in the Philippines
supporting regionalization. The project is innovative in nature as it pro-
poses fiscal and administrative reforms to strengthen decentralization, and
new institutions and procedures to bring it about. A new Regional Projects
Office (RPO) has been created in the region, responsible to the Prime
Minister, to implement regional projects in cooperation with the regional
offices of line ministries and the offices of local (provincial and municipal)
government.



- 26 -
5.02      The project is designed as a pilot scheme, to implement part of the
Central Visayas (Region VII) RDIP, and its scope is consistent with the
current budgetary situation and with the objective of allowing new regional
administrative procedures to be tested. The RPO would establish site manage-
ment units in five watersheds to implement the first phase of the project
including programs in upland agriculture at four sites, social forestry at
one, and nearshore development at four subsites. Road and trail construction
within the sites would be the responsibility of the Region's four Provincial
Engineers' Offices. Support services would be provided by the Regional
Offices of MA (para. 1.10), BFD and BFAR (para. 1.11). Project preparation
funds are being applied in part to the proposed project and in part to other
regions where formulation of regiona:L projects has begun.
5.03      Project implementation is based on three main objectives: first,
that project participants be made responsible for their own development;
second, that involved government agencies be made accountable to project
clients and their local political rep.resentatives; and third, that funds be
passed directly from the Ministry of Budget (MB) to the regional body to
decentralize implementation authority and minimize wastage. It is also
recognized that regionalization is a long-term process which is evolving
steadily as the Government decentralizes its services.
5.04      The Regional Development Council (RDC) has primary responsibility
for regional planning, programming and budgeting. Projects to be implemented
by the RPO must be approved by the RDC, as part of the RDIP, to ensure order
and consistency in regional integrated development. Executive Order (EO) No.
907 has amended earlier legislation and created the RPO as an implementing
agency which has taken over from the CVRPO which was responsible for pre-
implementation of the project under previous arrangements.
5.05      A Central Visayas Regional Projects Board has been designated by the
Prime Minister to establish and direct the RPO. The chairman of RDC serves as
chairman. Board membership comprises four local government officials who are
either Governors or City Mayors in the Region, and two Regional Directors,
probably BFD and the Ministry of Local Government (MLG). The Regional
Directors of MA and MPWH serve as ex-officio members of the Board. In
addition, the NEDA Regional Director, the RPO Executive Director, and the
Regional Director of the Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) attend meetings
and participate in deliberations but do not have voting rights.
5.06      The RPO would be funded directly by MB, according to RDC-approved
annual schedules of expenditures (paira. 3.38). The RPO is empowered to
recruit staff, and to contract work with Government and private agencies, the
substance of which is being formulated during preimplementation. The office
would be under the day-to-day supervision of an overall project manager,
preferably drawn from the Region, who would be technically and managerially
proficient to supervise the project.  The Executive Director for the RPO has
been nominated and would hold overall responsibi:Lity for all investments in
Region VII and for this project. The Executive D)irector has been involved in
the planning of this project since its inception. Formal appointment of the
nominated Executive Director and conlfirmation of the designated Board members
are expected shortly.



- 27 -
5.07      Specifically, the RPO would prepare staff terms of reference,
negotiate and supervise contracts, coordinate and implement training, admin-
ister project funds, and design, establish and operate a project monitoring
and evaluation system covering all components. The RPO would also review the
SMU annual development plans and work programs, prepare budgets for the RDC
and allot funds as directed by the RDC.
5.08      Effective project monitoring is considered central to implementation
of the regional development project, while evaluation is essential to aid the
preparation of subsequent phases of this project, and other regional projects.
Design of the project monitoring and evaluation system is being incorporated
into the management structure of both the RPO and the site units. Technical
assistance is being provided under the PPF, and by the Bank, to formulate a
suitable system during 1983 and to establish it in the RPO immediately
following loan effectiveness.
5.09      The RPO would be responsible for part of the project preparation
funds provided under the project (para. 3.43), including a possible second
phase of this project. Funds have been utilized by the former Central
Visayas Regional Project Office (CVRPO) in preparing the project and taking it
through preimplementation under two advances (a total of US$1.1 million) from
the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Another part of the allocation
would support preimplementation of the second regional project (urban). A
further part would be administered by NEDA Central to support the preparation
of other regional projects already identified.
5.10      Site Management Units (SMUs), under the RPO, would be responsible
for implementing agricultural programs (paras. 3.11 through 3.14) in four
watershed sites: Badian-Alegria, Cebu Province; Bayawan River, Negros Oriental
Province; Ipil River, Bohol Province; and Siquijor Island, Siquijor Province,
and the social forestry program (paras. 3.15 through 3.22) in the Ayungon-
Bindoy site, Negros Oriental Province. An Action Program has been agreed
with the Government to ensure the establishment and staffing of site manage-
ment units for the various project components (Section 3.06 and Schedule 5 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Most of the arrangements for implementing the
Program are in place. The immediate implementation of the Action Program
would ensure that project activities would commence on schedule. The SMUs
would work directly with project participants training them in recommended
technologies and instructing them in self-management. The units would also be
responsible for designing and implementing public works and reforestation to
protect the watersheds from further degradation. The social forestry unit
would be assisted by RBFD of MNR because regional authorities do not yet have
authority to license and control timber cutting and extraction, or to grant
leases on timberlands.
5.11      Specifically, the SMU staff would constitute the field staff of the
RPO and would prepare overall site development plans and annual work programs,
negotiate services, promote client associations, and monitor the physical and
financial progress of the project (Annex 8 - Project Working Papers Nos. 1 and
2). Each SMU would be headed by a manager and employ about 30 support staff.
It would be located on about 5 ha of land in a central position in the water-
shed. The land would be utilized for office, housing, nursery and livestock



- /_b I
facilities. Dormitory accommodation and training facilities, with electric
and water utilities, would also be provided. Assurances were obtained from
Government at negotiations that the RPO would acquire land, selected during
1983; establish five SMUs to implement the upland agriculture and social
forestry programs of the project; and appoint five SMU managers by June 30,
1984.
5.12      The social forestry SMU would operate like the SMUs at the four
upland agriculture sites. However, to ensure tenure over the site, an
assurance was obtained at negotiations that RPO would request that BFD Central
Office reserve the Ayungon-Bindoy site for the social forestry program by
June 30, 1984.
5.13      The social forestry SMU would be responsible for issuing stewardship
contracts on forest land to settlers selected from the itinerant occupants,
according to established criteria, a feature of the social forestry component
of the project. The substance of the contracts has already been drafted, as
the program began in the Region. The SMU would arrange surveys, prepare
documentation, issue contracts, enforce stewardship conditions and collect
fees. In addition to stewardship contracts, the unit would encourage settlers
to form self-help associations, formulate farm plans in collaboration with the
settlers and supervise their execution, and undertake off-farm reforestation
to stabilize the subproject area.
5.14      Sub-SMUs would be responsible for managing the nearshore fisheries
programs (paras. 3.23 through 3.28). Each subunit would be managed by a
deputy site manager who would, with extension specialists, formulate and
supervise work programs for the community development workers (CDWs) and
artificial reef crews.  He would also be responsible for liaising with
municipal officials to gain their support, and in formulating appropriate
ordinances and permits required under the project.
5.15      The subunits would be located on the coast, about midway along the
section of coast to be covered by the project but EIs near as possible to the
main watershed management units to which they would be subordinate. Each
subunit would have from two to four artificial reef siting and construction
crews equipped with motorized bancas, nonmotorized barges and appropriate
construction tools (Annex 8 - Project Working Paper No. 3). An assurance was
obtained from Government at negotiations that the RPO would establish four
sub-SMUs to implement the nearshore fisheries program of the project, and
appoint four deputy SMU managers by June 30, 1984.
5.16      Although membership in an association would not be mandatory for
participation in the project, the fornation of client associations would be
encouraged by the SMUs since successful implementation of the project depends
on the combined actions of thousands cof smallholders in the Region's forests,
uplands and nearshore areas.  The annual development plans and work programs
would be approved by the associations, in consultation with the SMU managers,
before being submitted to regional authorities for finalization (Annex 8 -
Project Working Paper No. 6).



- 29 -
5.17      To achieve the above aims, project staff at the SMUs would need to
provide effective extension, promote producer associations, and train parti-
cipants. Extension would be provided by a corps of CDWs including about 55 in
the uplands, 20 in the nearshore areas and 6 in the social forestry site
assisted by specialist staff from the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural
Resources. In the upland agriculture and forestry sites, extension would
employ the Training and Visit (T&V) system currently being implemented in the
Philippines under the National Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH). The ratio of
farmers to CDWs would be 100:1 in the early years and 500:1 at full
implementation.
5.18      In the nearshore areas, as the technology is newer and innovative,
the ratio of fishermen to CDWs would be 40:1 for mangrove and artificial
reef stewards. The improved fisheries development program to be designed
under the project would also utilize the T&V extension system.
5.19      Many Philippine community associations in the past have foundered
because of "over-bureaucratization," particularly in the formative stages,
and because members were inadequately trained to discharge their duties.
The project would attempt to improve on earlier associations by:
(a) forming flexible groups of producers performing similar functions,
such as soil conservation works, in the early stages of the
project. Only in later years would more complex tasks be
attempted, such as input purchasing, produce marketing and credit
provision;
(b) specialized training of selected barangay leaders: two in each
project village or about 272 during the life of the project, half
of which would be women since they are equally responsible with
the men for many production tasks; and
(c) specialized training of all 1,200 project participants in forest
stand improvement, an innovative feature of the social forestry
component.
5.20      The agricultural development program would be linked to the research
component through the upland research fund which provides for trials on farm
fields, and by having farm systems research staff train CDWs and extension
personnel. The program would be monitored by project management so that
improvements would be made during implementation.
5.21      The Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture (RMA) would be
responsible for providing soil and livestock services under the project
(paras. 3.34 through 3.36). In addition, RMA would be responsible for estab-
lishing an upland research station (para. 3.42), administering an upland
research fund, and providing packages of technology (techno-packs) to farmers
(Annex 8 - Project Working Paper No. 1). RMA would also be responsible for



- 30 -
the agricultural part of the training and technical assistance components
(paras. 3.39 through 3.41) of the project (Annex 8 Project Working Paper No.
5). All RMA support activities would be done under memoranda of agreement
with RPO, and an assurance was obtained from Government at negotiations that
the RPO would designate RMA to provide support services under the project as
set out in Project Working Papers No.  1 and No.  5 (Annex 8), under memoranda
of agreement with RPO, and appoint officers-in-charge of the services by
June 30, 1984.
5.22      The relevant sections of the Regional Office of the Bureau of
Forest Development (RBFD) would assist the SMU as required in forest
evaluation and law enforcement, watershed management, and reforestation.  The
assistance would be defined in memoranda of agreement between RBFD and the
RPO, and the relevant sections of RBFD which would also be responsible for
off-farm reforestation at all sites under the project (para. 3.37). In
addition, RBFD would be responsible, through the Regional Office of the Forest
Research Institute (RFORI), for forestry research activities under the project
(para. 3.42). Details of both activities are set out in Project Working Paper
No. 2 (Annex 8). RBFD would also implement the forestry part of the training
and technical assistance components (paras. 3.39 through 3.41) of the project
as set out in Project Working Paper No. 5 (Annex 8).
5.23      All RBFD support activities would be done under memoranda of
agreement with RPO, and an assurance was obtained from Government at nego-
tiations that the RPO would designate RBFD to provide support services under
the project, as set out in Project Working Papers No. 2 and No. 5 (Annex 8),
under memoranda ot agreement with RPFO, and appoint officers-in-charge of the
services by June 30, 1984.
5.24      The Regional Office of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources (RBFAR) of MNR would be responsible for providing fishing regulatory
services (para. 3.38) under the project and implementing the fisheries part of
the training and technical assistance components (paras. 3.39 through 3.41)
of the project (Annex 8 - Project Working Papers No. 3 and No. 5). An
assurance was obtained from Government at negotiations, that the RPO would
designate RBFAR to provide support services under the project under memoranda
of agreement with RPO, and appoint officers-in-charge of the services by
June 30, 1984.
5.25      The four Provincial Engineers' Offices (PEOs) of Cebu, Negros
Oriental, Bohol and Siquijor Provinces would imp:Lement the infrastructure
component (paras. 3.29 through 3.32,1 of the project under memoranda of agree-
ment with the RPO (Annex 8 - Project Working Paper No. 4). Construction of 97
km of new, and improvement of 125 km of existing roads in the five sites would
be undertaken by the PEOs in consultation with the SMUs which would establish
priorities and allocate funds. A rural road conStruction section would be
established within each PEO, and wotLld be responsible for implementing the
programs with assistance from qualif-ied local consultants. The PEO planning



- 31 -
division would prepare terms of reference, appoint consultants acceptable to
the Bank, and administer the contracts. An assurance was obtained from
Government at negotiations that the RPO designate the four PEOs (Cebu, Negros
Oriental, Bohol and Siquijor Provinces) to implement and maintain the infra-
structure program of the project, under memoranda of agreement with RPO, to
establish rural road construction sections within the PEOs, and to appoint
officers-in-charge of the programs by June 30, 1984. The detailed engineering
designs for about 15% of the project roads were completed during 1983 and
the first year's program should be ready for bidding in early 1984.
Maintenance would be carried out by the rural road units within the PEOs, in
collaboration with the respective Barangay captains and the Ministry of
Local Government, using vehicles and equipment procured under the project.
Trails would be constructed under piece-rate contracts between the PEOs,
representing the SMUs, and farmer groups who would be responsible for trail
maintenance on completion.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production
6.01      Socio-economic surveys conducted during 1981 in seven watersheds
in the Region, as part of project preparation, show that project benefici-
aries are generally poor and work small parcels of land with declining
productivity. They have medium-to-large families and live on their land in
simple bamboo and wooden houses with few amenities. They are poorly
educated, practice subsistence agriculture and are generally suspicious of
all outsiders, particularly government officials. Average farm size varies
from 0.4 ha in Siquijor to 2.2 ha in the Bayawan River Watershed, Negros
Oriental Province.
6.02      Land is farmed by household members in simple, family groups;
husband, wife and unmarried children. Many household heads possess tax
declaration papers which they believe legitimize their land occupancy.
However, a general sense of tenure insecurity prevails since the Government
does not recognize the declarations as substitutes for titles.
6.03      The granting of stewardships over the land is designed to elimin-
ate tenure insecurity. It is estimated that 5,800 stewardship contracts
would be awarded during the five-year project implementation period (Table
6.1). The contracts would include about 4,500 for upland farmers on mixed
agroforestry sites at three watersheds: Badian-Alegria, Bayawan and Ipil
Rivers; 325 for municipal fishermen managing mangroves at four sites:
Badian-Alegria, Ayungon, Siquijor and Ipil River; and 1,000 for forest
occupants at the Ayungon social forestry site. The contract projections
assume that all participants, except those on Siquijor Island where all land
is alienable and disposable (A and D),/1 occupy public land where steward-
ship would be applicable (Annex 8 - Project Working Paper No. 7).
/1 A and D lands are non-forested and available for titling and private



- 32 -
6.04      Farm labor is provided by the conjugal family members and can be
supplemented by help from kinsmen, neighbors and friends, especially through
labor exchange groups known in the Region as "alayon." Labor may also be
hired, but wage workers contribute only a small fraction of the work done on
upland farms. Hired workers receive a low wage, P 6-10 daily, or instead
are remunerated in-kind particularly at harvest.
Table 6.1: PROJECT STEWARDSHIP CONTRACTS BY SITE AND YEAR
Number of contracts
Site                      PY 1     PY 2      PY 3      PY 4      PY 5      Total
Upland Agriculture
Badian-Alegria            0     160        400        560        540   1,660
Bayawan River             0     140        320        440        423   1,323
Ipil River                0     160        360        500        470   1,490
Subtotal            0      460      1,080      1,500       1,433   4,473
Social Forestry
Ayungon                 200     500        300          -          -   1,0
Nearshore Fisheries
Ipil River               10      27         28         27         28      120
Siquijor                  0       5          8                     8       15
Badian-Alegria            5      17         18         11         18       /5
Ayungon                   5      2/         28         2/         28      115
Subtotal           20       76         79         76         74     325
Total             220      736      1;359      1,776      1,707   5,798
6.05      The project's payments-in-kind (with livestock and inputs) for
soil conservation and reforestation works should overcome producer reluc-
tance to participate in the project. In forestry areas, the project would
promote forest stand improvement, labor intensive logging, reforestation, and
forest protection. In upland agriculture, the project would promote the
construction of contour terraces andl ditches, and introduce improved mixed
farming systems utilizing livestock with annual and perennial crops. In
nearshore areas, the project would establish arti'ficial reefs, replant
mangrove areas, and improve the management of coral reefs through the
designation of sanctuaries.



- 33 -
6.06      The technologies being introduced under the project are simple,
inexpensive and do not depart radically from current practices. In fact,
examples of all the advocated technologies can be found within the Region.
The project aims to promote the wider adoption of the best of these, as
described in the Project Working Papers, and to measure their impact over
time so that further refinements can be made.
6.07      Upland Agriculture.  In Cebu Province, despite growing population
pressure in the upland areas, the total cultivated area is not increasing.
However, the upland farms have reached their limit of productivity and
yields are dropping as soil is lost through continued erosion caused by
annual food cropping. Therefore, soil stabilization measures, such as
terracing and the planting of fodder grasses with legume and fruit trees,
have been incorporated in the project. Ruminant livestock, given as pay-
ment-in-kind for soil conservation work and reforestation, would be raised
on pasture and crop residues from the farm, and on grass from nearby verges.
Composting and fertilizers would be utilized to enhance soil fertility so
the area cropped for food could be reduced as yields increase allowing soil
stabilizing enterprises to be introduced and expanded. A farm model incor-
porating these measures has been developed for a typical upland farm,
0.75 ha with mixed cropping and livestock, on 35% slope (Annex 8 - Project
Working Paper No. 1, Table 71).
6.08      Population pressure in the Negros Oriental and Bohol sites is less
intense than in the Cebu and Siquijor sites. Average farm size is larger,
soil fertility is higher, and in Negros Oriental, there is more shifting
cultivation. In Bohol, there has been less immigration and local agricul-
ture is stable, based on non-irrigated rice production. Farmers are aware
of the limits of these systems and are better prepared for change than
farmers in the more isolated locations on Cebu Island. Two hectare farm
models, on 25% slope, are presented for the Bohol and Negros Oriental sites.
Both incorporate soil stabilization measures and show a reduction in the
cultivated area for subsistence food crops as yields increase in favor of
increased livestock and perennial fruit tree production (Annex 8 - Project
Working Paper No. 1, Tables 78 and 89).
6.09      Population pressure is higher on Siquijor Island and farm size is
smaller than for the other provinces. A 0.6 ha mixed farm model, on 20%
slope, is presented incorporating soil stabilization measures, livestock
production and a shift from food crop cultivation as yields increase, to
perennial tree crop production, including fruit (Annex 8 - Project Working
Paper No.1, Table 92).
6.10      In the Cebu, Negros Oriental and Bohol sites, where the farmers
are operating forest land, stewardship contracts would be awarded to
consolidate the holdings and provide incentives for farmers to rehabilitate
their farms. This would not be the case in Siquijor Island, where the land
is all A and D and farmers already have an incentive to improve their



- 34 -
incomes as they have titles to the land. Farmers in the first three sites
would be able to invest in agro-forestry on unutilized land for additional
income. A representative one-hectare model of an agro-forestry enterprise
with livestock, on 30% slope, is presented for general application (Annex 8
- Project Working Paper No. 1, Table 100).
6.11      In the upland agriculture program, 20,250 households are located
on the 110,200 ha of the four project sites. About 5,700 families would
participate directly in the project (Table 6.2). These farmers would
introduce improved cropping and agro-forestry praLctices on about 6,000 ha.
Table 6.2: PROJECT PARTICIPANT FAMILIES BY SITE
Upland       Social    Nearshore
Site          agriculture   forestry   fisheries
Badian-Alegria        1,660            -        1,398
Bayawan River         1,323            -            -
Ipil River            1,490            -        2,206
Siquijor              1,225            -        3,127
Ayungon-Bindoy             -       1,200          974
Total            5 698        1 o00        7,705
6.12      Production increases from the upland agriculture program would be
substantial (Table 6.3). At full production, project participants would
generate incremental annual crop production of about 9,000 m tons.
Incremental production from perennial crops, inc:Luding firewood, and also
from livestock would also be significant (Annex 8 - Project Working Paper
No. 1, Table 102).



- 35 -
Table 6.3: INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION FROM UPLAND AGRICULTURE
AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Quantity
Commodity                            (m tons)
Annuals
Grains
Rice                                  1,140
Corn                                  2,900
Tubers
Cassava                               1,380
Sweet potato                          1,460
Legumes
Peanuts                               1,130
Mungbean                                950
Subtotal                           8,960
Perennials
Trees (fruit)
Mango                                19,080
Bananas                               6,000
Jackfruit                             3,800
Avocados                              2,500
Cashew                                1,670
Trees (wood)
Firewood                             13,410 cu m
Livestock
Cattle                                  1,030 (liveweight)
Goats                                     260 (liveweight)
6.13      Social Forestry.  It is envisaged that each family in the social
forestry program would be settled on a 7 ha lot, 5 ha of which would be used
for reforestation and two for subsistance food production. During the
establishment period, farmers would receive compensation for their labor,
related to farm wages in the site, and be given planting materials until the
fifth year when they would begin to derive an income from harvesting wood
against which an annual stumpage fee would be charged. From the sixth year,
the investment cost would be financed under a second phase of the project,
or by Government. Each family would also be expected to pay a service
charge equivalent to 5% of production value for marketing assistance. The
impact of the project on farmer income is demonstrated by two farm models,
one for reforestation and one for forest stand improvement (Annex 8 -
Project Working Paper No. 2, Tables 4 through 9).



- 36 -
6.14      In the case of reforestation, investments in seedlings,
fertilizer, baskets, firebreaks, seed and herbicide are made during the
first four years as the trees are established. Maintenance costs peak by
the thirteenth year and fluctuate at lower levels thereafter. The farm
family is dependent on in-kind payments from the SMU until the sixth year
when the first cuts are made. In the case of forest stand improvement,
costs of selective thinning peak in the fourth year and fluctuate at lower
levels thereafter.
6.15      About 1,200 families would participate in the social f'orestry
program (Table 6.2). Production from forest stand improvement is expected
to be 15,000 cu m of logs and 232,000 poles during the first five years of
the project. Production from reforestation would be 423,000 m tons of
firewood, 1,330,000 cu m of sawn logls, 4,512,000 pieces of rattan, and
300,000 posts during the life of the project from the 1,200 families
participating directly in the project.
6.16      Nearshore Fisheries.  Estimates of fis'h production from coral reef
areas have traditionally been in the range of 4--6 m tons per sq km yearly
for tropical waters like those in the Philippines. More recent records,
from the Philippines and Western Sarimoa, show yields of 12-20 m tons per sq
km yearly for areas with a high percentage of living coral cover and low
fishing pressure. Since neither of these latter conditions are common in
the Philippines, especially in the Central Visayas with its relatively high
population density, current harvests from natural coral reef within the
project area are assumed to average 4 m tons per sq km yearly, but are
falling at a rate of 100 kg per year due to contamination and destruction of
the reef, and overfishing.
6.17      Based on results from a nearby, existing coral reef sanctuary, in
which the reef fish harvest doubled over a five-vear period after 17% of the
reef was declared a sanctuary and closed to fishing, it is assumed that if
20% of a reef is protected, the catch in the remaining 80% will double, from
3.2 to 6.4 m tons per sq km yearly in five years. Under the project, it is
proposed to establish 36 sq km of reef sanctuary which would, at full
production, produce an incremental catch of 115 D1 tons per year (Annex 8 -
Project Working Paper No. 3, Attachment 3, Tables 22 and 23).
6.18      Harvest from each kilometer of artificial reef is expected to
reach 2 m tons per linear km yearly, at full development. Research
indicates higher yields should be attainable, but because of the paucity of
data on artificial reef production in the Region, a conservative estimate
has been used. At full development, the project's 114 linear km of
artificial reef would yield 227 m tons of fish per year (Annex 8 - Project
Working Paper No. 3, Attachment 3, T'ables 15, 16 and 17).
6.19      An average hectare of mangrove is expected to yield 12.5 cu m per
ha yearly of firewood, at full development, or 8,125 cu m from 650 ha



- 37 -
proposed for replanting under the project. Direct harvest of fish products
per ha at full development would reach 100 kg finfish, 25 kg shrimp, 15 kg
crabmeat, 200 kg molluscs and 40 kg sea cucumber. In addition, an indirect
harvest of up to 400 kg of finfish and 75 kg of shrimp is expected from
mangrove-dependent species which mature and are harvested elsewhere (Annex 8
- Project Working Paper No. 3, Attachment 3, Tables 18, 19 and 20).
6.20      There are an estimated 7,705 families in the four nearshore fish-
eries areas, over 4,000 of whom depend on fishing as their sole or major
source of income (Table 6.2). Improving the productive base of the near-
shore resource by establishing artificial reefs, protecting the natural
coral reefs, replanting mangroves and better managing existing mangroves
would benefit all those who are fully or partly dependent on the nearshore
resource for income or food. Direct benefits, at full development, are
estimated to be 8,125 cu m of fuelwood, 400 m tons of finfish and 180 m tons
of other sea products.
6.21      For artificial reefs and new mangrove plantings, use rights would
be allocated through a permit system - stewardship contracts for mangrove
replanting and municipal permits for artificial reefs. On the basis of four
families per linear kilometer of artificial reef, 440 families would benefit
directly from the project. An additional 325 families would be awarded
stewardship contracts over the 650 ha of mangrove area proposed for
replanting.
6.22      Yield increases and positive farm cash flows would result almost
from the first year of the project, from improved annual cropping and from
payment-in-kind by the Government for beneficial works. The financial
rewards to producers are substantial and immediate. Financial analytical
data are presented in Project Working Paper No. 9 (Annex 8).
Marketing
6.23      There is a well established and reasonably efficient private
sector marketing network to handle production inputs and project output in
the watershed areas of the project, and marketing margins for both inputs
and output are commensurate with costs and risks involved. Where marketing
infrastructure is deficient, traders often link provision of credit and
supplies to purchases of farm output. Often, strong business bonds are
based on principles of allegiance and reciprocity between farmers and
marketing agents. The improved road and trail access provided by the
project would help reduce transport costs and improve marketing services in
the project areas, particularly after the pilot phase is completed.
6.24      Grains.  Rice is a well established crop in the project areas,
particularly in the inner valleys and lowlands. Most of the paddy is sold
by farmers to traders and millers who are tied into the crop because of
either advanced financing or traditional bonds. A significant amount of



- 38 -
project output is consumed on the farm or traded for other foods from
neighbors. Finally, about 2% to 4% of the rice would be sold directly to
NFA buying stations. Rice for home consumption is usually custom milled in
relatively small, locally operated mills.
6.25      The Visayans' staple food is white corn, the production of which
is 2.5 times that of rice in the Region. Most of the corn, which is
produced on small-sized farms, is consumed by the farm family or traded for
other foods. Surplus white corn is sold to local buyers to mill into grits.
Cebu is a national marketing center for corn and virtually all the major
feed mills with headquarters in Manila have branches in Cebu.
6.26      Tubers.  Central Visayas is a net food importer of all project
commodities except tubers. The best fresh tuber market prospect is for
sweet potato while the best processed tuber market prospect is for cassava
which is chipped, diced and powdered for animal feed usually as a substitute
for corn. In Bohol Island, the Philippine Starch Industrial Corporation has
begun operations on 4,500 ha, with plans to increXase to 18,000 ha, to
convert cassava chips into starch, of which aboul: 70% is expected to be
exported; by-products of glucose and powdered waste would be sold in the
domestic market. However, project participants would largely consume their
tuber output on the farm.
6.27      Legumes.  The international price of peanuts is about half the
domestic price which indicates high costs of production as well as strong
consumer demand. There are six peanut processors in Cebu producing mainly
salted nuts, but also other products; incorporating nuts such as dessert
nougat and candies. Mungbean is the legume stap:Le in the Visayas and
maintains a steady market.
6.28      Tree Crops.  The most important fruit grown in the project area is
mango.  The fruit is sold at local markets either directly by the farmer or
by traders; farm owners often sell the crop on the tree and the purchaser
harvests the fruit. About 50% of mango production is dehydrated as about
17 small firms are active in mango drying in the Region. Some of the high
quality packs of slices are sold abroad to Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan.
One of the main problems facing the industry, thes lack of raw material in
the off-season, is gradually being overcome, in part, by chemically induced
flowering to spread the fruiting season.
6.29      Bananas are grown on most farms.  Trade is usually restricted to
fresh bananas due to lack of markets, and susceptibility of the fruit to
bruising. However, three firms are currently processing the "cardaba"
variety into chips for export with considerable success. Banana puree is
also being processed and sold as infant food and as a tomato substitute in
catsup.
6.30      The bulk of jackfruit production is consumed as a fresh vegetable
or as fresh fruit, but the demand for jackfruit preserves is increasing for



- 39 -
ice cream flavoring and desserts. Farmers sell jackfruit in small
quantities either to truckers at the farmgate or take their fruit, usually
by bus, to the local market for direct sale.
6.31      A small quantity of avocados are produced in the Region.  They are
mainly consumed on-farm as fresh fruit because of their susceptibility to
bruising during transport over rough roads. About 20% of production enters
the commercial trade like other fruits. Recently, Carnation Milk
Corporation of Manila has begun to extract oil from avocados and has
strengthened the market for this fruit.
6.32      Cashewnuts, for which there are good prospects both on the local
and international markets, are at present produced largely in Luzon and
Palawan. However, growing conditions for cashewnuts are favorable in the
project areas.
6.33      Livestock.  Cattle and goats would be given to project farmers as
payment for soil conservation works carried out on their farms. There are
active livestock markets throughout the Central Visayas which not only
supply Cebu City, but also Manila with better quality red meat. Farmers or
traders usually walk the livestock to auction centers where they are sold
and trucked or shipped to urban centers.
6.34      Timber.  Sawlog production has been virtually prohibited in the
Region since 1979. Under the project, in the Ayungon-Bindoy watershed,
small farmers would undertake reforestation and labor-intensive logging
utilizing fast growing species. Trees would be cut by hand and the logs
hauled to roadsides by carabao, then trucked to the Ayungon wharf where they
would be loaded onto barges for shipment to Cebu City. The most popular
species, Albizzia falcataria, is a desirable wood for furniture.
6.35      A major objective of Government is to substitute fuelwood for oil
where technically and economically feasible. The giant ipil-ipil species is
playing a key role in this program. In addition to its use as fuelwood, the
tree leaves are dried and ground as a substitute for alfalfa in animal
feeds. Domestic feedmills are buying the leaf material and two firms in the
Region are exporting the product regularly to Japan.
6.36      The market for firewood is substantial and is growing rapidly.
Because of its high thermal rating, mangrove wood commands a premium price
in the market, particularly from bakeries. The demand is likely to increase
rapidly as the dendrothermal power plants in Cebu and Negros Occidental come
on stream.
6.37      Fisheries.  At the municipal level, fish marketing is usually
handled by a female member of the household. Part of the catch is retained
for home consumption, part is bartered for other produce, and the remainder
sold, usually in the local market through brokers, who sometimes provide



- 40 -
informal credit.  During peak seasons, the catch is sold at sea to
commercial boats for shipment to ma-jor urban markets. RBFAR statistics
indicate that regional fish production declined 23% from 74,800 m tons in
1976 to 57,800 m tons in 1980. Estimates of regional demand by 1981 are
161,300 m tons which indicate that the Region as a whole is in deficit
mainly due to strong demand from the Cebu City metropolitan complex.
6.38       The increased production of fish and f-ish products resulting from
the project is expected to be absorbed entirely by the existing -market.
Incremental production is expected to grow gradually and, given the
increasing demand and current shortages of fish in the Region, is not
expected to lead to oversupply. Most of the fish would be sold in local
markets with the remainder transhipped to urban centers outside the Region.
Prices
6.39       With the project, the use of inputs would rise significantly by
comparison with the small amounts applied at present. The initial seeds and
planting materials would be supplied by commercial firms which do a lot of
their own applied research and seed multiplication covering a variety of
crops. The government research stations would take the lead in supplying
cattle, goats and appropriate pasture species for the maintenance of
animals. Summaries of financial and economic pr:tces for project inputs and
outputs are provided in Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2. Price derivations for key
commodities are included in Project Working Paper No. 9 (Annex 8).
6.40       Fertilizer supplies and prices are controlled by Government
through a complicated system of import licenses, import duties, subsidies
and price ceilings.  Private firms uLndertake the management of fertilizer
stocks and distribution to farmers along normal commercial channels.
Agricultural chemicals and veterinary medicines are available in the project
area through several private firms.  The marketing system for those inputs
is less well developed in the uplands and would be improved by the upgrading
of rural roads and construction of trails which would encourage local
merchants to extend their operations.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01       The main focus of the pro,ject and its primary economic benefit
would be the increased incomes of some 14,600 poor families in five water-
sheds of Central Visayas, with indirect benefits for many others, through
incremental production of agriculture, forestry and nearshore fisheries.  At
present, the incomes of these families are declining due to severe soil
erosion and fishery habitat degradat-ion. The project is designed to promote
cultural practices which would reverse the trend and improve productivity of



- 41 -
the watersheds. The project would also create more effective regional and
local institutions for implementation of rural development activities in
Central Visayas and test the concept for broader application regionwide, and
ultimately for other regions in the country as well.
7.02      Direct project benefits are derived from the production models
related to prospective project participants in upland agriculture, forestry
and nearshore fisheries. The incremental per capita incomes derived directly
from project investments range from P 230 to P 4,300 which are modest
compared with average incomes around the country. For example, the national
average per capita rural income demarcating the absolute poverty line is
estimated to be about P 2,000 (in 1983 prices), and per capita incomes
resulting from project activities fluctuate around this level although they
would be significantly higher than at present. Per capita incomes without the
project could be expected to decline further in most cases (Table 7.1).
7.03      In addition to income derived from project activities, agricultural
participants would also engage in off-farm seasonal work and the forestry
participants would engage in supplementary subsistence agriculture. Never-
theless, project participants are among the absolute poor and while their
economic position would improve under the project, they would still be
relatively poor because of limited resources and the pressure of population
which forces these families onto small plots and reduced fishing areas.
7.04      Only part of the benefits from rehabilitating upland farming systems
would go to participating farmers as increased income from increased agricul-
tural and wood production. Benefits to other producers would include
increased nearshore fish production due to reduced reef siltation, reduced
flooding and damage to downstream farms and roads, reduced soil runoff leading
to increased moisture supply for crop production, increased employment as
upland production increases, and reduced urban migration.
7.05      The labor requirement to implement the upland agriculture component
of the project, including agro-forestry, would be substantial. It is esti-
mated that almost two million man-days would be required to implement and
maintain the new farm systems until they reach full development. Although
most of the labor would be provided by members of 5,700 participant families,
some would be contributed by other workers seeking employment within the four
watershed sites.



42 -
Table 7.1: FAMILY INCOME BY PRODUCTION MODEL
(Expressed in pesos at 1983 prices)
__  Future/a      Incremental /b
With                       Per
Pres-   proj-  Without            capita
Farm model                                     ent     ect   project   Family   /c
Upland Agriculture
Ipil River - 2 ha farm with 25% slope    2,780  L7,650   2,380   15,270  2,545
Bayawan - 2 ha farm with 25% slope          2,655  17,440   2,145   15,295  2,550
Badian-Alegria - 0.75 ha farm with
35% slope                                 2,050  11,285   1,680    9,605  1,600
Siquijor - 0.6 ha farm with 20% slope    1,695   7,680   1,460    6,220  1,035
General - 1 ha agroforestry farm
with 30% slope                     -  20,515        -   20,515  3,420
Social Forestry /d
5 ha reforestation plot /e                       -  24,825        -   24,825  4,305
8 ha forest stand improvement plot ,'f          -   2,610         -    2,610    435
1 ha off-farm reforestation plot /g             -   1,365         -    1,365    230
Nearshore Fisheries
1 km of artificial reef /h                 25,310  43,660  25,310    4,588    765
2 ha mangrove plantation 7i                      -   8,964        -    8,964  1,494
1 km of fish sanctuary /j                  41,575  67,425  31,980    3,544    590
/a At full development.
/b Compares future "with" and future "without."
/c Assumes 6 members per family.
/d  The forestry model assumes that w:Lthout project there would be no activity
in the project area.
/e  Would comprise an agroforestry farm unit.
/f  Supplemental income to project beneficiaries sesttled in the project area
through labor-intensive harvesting techniques.
/g Cutting and replanting of buri, bamboo and rattan.
/h  Four families would be responsible for the maintenance of the artificial
reefs and would have exclusive rights to fish those waters.
/i  Replanting and harvesting of a 2 ha unit would be carried out by one
fisheries family.
/j Fish would be harvested from a 5 km area adjacent to the 1 km sanctuary;
about 10 families would fish these waters.



- 43 -
7.06      Indirect benefits from the nearshore fisheries component would be
significant. If, as trials indicate, each hectare of mangrove contributes
about 400 kg of finfish and 75 kg of shrimp to the nearshore fishing area,
the planting of 650 ha new mangrove would contribute 260 m tons yearly of
fish and 16 m tons yearly of shrimp in indirect harvest. The proper manage-
ment and enrichment of the 5,000 ha of preserve and wilderness would also
have a significant impact on fish and sea-life production in the nearshore
areas, although it is unquantifiable since the quality of existing mangroves
is not known. The planting of mangroves in shoreline areas would reduce
beach erosion which is serious in many places throughout the Region. A
direct benefit would be the consequent reduction in road maintenance costs
along these shorelines. The persistent educational effort proposed under
the nearshore component, with support from RBFAR's law enforcement
officials, should lead to a reduction of destructive and illegal fishing
methods in project areas.
7.07      The regional line agencies, RBFAR and RBFD, would be strengthened
under the project through improved resource management by field staff and
improved fishpond extension through better mangrove management. Also, to
the extent that survey and research contracts are awarded to them, the two
private universities in the Region with marine research programs would
enhance their contribution to the fishing industry.
7.08      Long-term employment generation in fisheries is not a primary
objective of the nearshore component of the project as the municipal fishery
is overcrowded already. However, the studies (para. 3.41) proposed to
inventory nearshore habitats and to survey the prospects for seaweed culture
could lead to alternative employment opportunities.
7.09      The major economic benefits from the social forestry component of
the project would be incremental production and income from timber and
rattan. Also, there would be foreign exchange savings resulting from a
partial substitution of firewood for imported bunker oil in sugar milling.
Employment benefits would accrue to the 1,200 participant families and the
multiplier effect of increased incomes would have a positive effect on
communities adjacent to the social forestry site. The project would help to
stabilize the Cebu-based rattan furniture industry as inadequate and unreli-
able supply of poles is a primary constraint to increased production.
Timber supplies would also be improved as lumber consumption within the
Region is estimated at 38 million bd ft yearly which requires 178,000 cu m
of logs all of which come from outside the Region.
7.10      As for upland agriculture, significant indirect benefits would
also be derived from the social forestry component: reduced soil erosion,
reduced water runoff (less flooding), reduction in reef siltation, and
increased tree production due to reforestation and stabilization of the
watershed.



- 44 -
Environmental Impact
7.11      The project is designed to have a beneficial environmental impact
ranging from stabilization and rehabilitation of t:he upland forestry and
agricultural areas, which are badly eroded, to reductions in siltation and
damage to the nearshore mangrove and reef areas leading to increased pro-
ductivity from all parts of the watershed. Possible adverse effects result-
ing from the use of agricultural chem:icals would be minimized through the
use of composting and the introduction of farm systems that reduce rainfall
runoff so that residues from the small amounts of chemicals applied would
not be carried downstream.
Justification
7.12      The net present value (NPV) of the productive components of the
project, with benefits and costs discounted at the opportunity cost of capital
of 10%, is US$26.7 million (Table 7.2). Of this total, about IJS$15.7 million
is contributed by the upland agricultural component and US$9.0 million
originates in the social forestry component while US$2.0 million by nearshore
fisheries. About 30% of project costs generate benefits regionwide, or in
other regions of the country and have been excluded from the NPV and ERR
calculations.
Table 7.2:  SUMMARY OF RATE OF RETtRT ANALYSIS
Economic
Component                      Net present       rate of     Switching values/b
value Cc 10% /a  return       Benefits   Costs
(US$ million)       (%)       --(--)  -------
Total Production Components          26.7           17.5         -40        +67
Upland agriculture                 15.7           17.7         -38        +62
Social forestry                     9.0           17.4         -44        +77
Nearshore fisheries                 2.0           16.4         -42        +73
/a  The opportunity cost of capital measured in constant terms is estimated
at 10%.
/b Defined as the percentage change in benefits or costs which would result
in a net present value of zero or which would generate an economic rate of
return equal to the opportunity cost of capitaLl.



- 45 -
7.13      The production components of the project, including infrastructure,
account for about 70% of total costs, and show an economic rate of return of
17.5% (Table 7.2). Returns to project components are: agriculture 18%,
forestry 17%, and nearshore fisheries 16%. In these calculations, the costs
for soil services, BFD institutional strengthening, research and project
preparation are excluded from the economic analysis since the investments
benefit the entire region or country. The main assumptions behind the NPV
and ERR estimates are the following:
(a) the economic analysis was based on efficiency prices using
border prices as a point of reference. Conversion factors were
used to reduce domestic currency values for nontraded project
inputs and outputs and to correct for distortions in relative
prices. The value of traded goods in pesos was adjusted by the
appropriate conversion factor(s) to obtain the farmrgate
equivalents in terms of border prices;
(b) the standard conversion factor (SCF) was 0.82, but three
specific conversion factors were used to arrive at economic
efficiency values expressed in local currency at border prices.
For fertilizers, pesticides and agricultural chemicals, 0.87;
for equipment, 0.86; for rural unskilled labor, 0.75;
(c) all taxes, forest charges and price contingencies are excluded
in the economic valuation of project output and input, but
physical contingencies are included in the project economic
costs;
(d) all livestock, training, technical assistance and regional
management costs are included in the economic analysis since
these activities are required to realize measurable project
benefits during the project life;
(e) future financial prices of internationally traded project
output are expressed in constant 1983 prices (based on Bank
projections), and for products not internationally traded,
quoted farm-gate and market prices were obtained and adjusted
by the SCF of 0.82; and
(f) because considerable seasonal and structural unemployment
exists in the rural unskilled labor market, the economic cost
of that labor (P 8.25/day) was assumed to be 75% of the
market wage.
Details of the economic rate of return analysis by components are presented
in Annex 7, Tables 1-4 and Project Working Paper No. 9 (Annex 8).



- 46 -
7.14      Project returns are sensitive to changes in the benefit and cost
streams. For the production components of the project, a decline in benefits
of 40%, or a cost increase of 67%, would reduce the NPV to zero, or the
economic rate of return to 10% (Table 7.2).  Benefits could be reduced if
there is less participation in the p-roject than expected, or if yields fail to
reach projected levels, or reach them later than anticipated. In any of the
above cases, the ERR is unlikely to be reduced below about 12%.  It is
unlikely that costs will rise significantly. Returns are also moderately
sensitive to labor costs; if the financial cost of local unskilled labor
(11 pesos per day) were used instead of the economic cost, the economic rate
of return would decline to 16.5%. If benefits should lag by three years
leading to an eight-year disbursement period, but with costs incurred as
scheduled, the return would be reduced to 12%.
Risks
7.15      Since neither the Bank nor the Philippine Government has supported
such a large systematic development effort in a single region before, the
project's main risks are mainly institutional in nature. Project design has
attempted to minimize these risks, but it is recognized that new systems of
decentralized budgetary and administrative control would take time to
consolidate under the evolving process of regionalization.
7.16      In upland agriculture, the region's poor agricultural resource base
requires that innovative measures of soil conservation and upland farming be
introduced so that there are also some technical risks. While the technology
proposed under the project has proven effective, much of it within Region VII
itself, it remains to be seen if existing "slash and burn" farmers can be
transformed into permanent settlers under the land stewardship program being
introduced under the project and maintain stable enterprises on small plots
over time. The project concept of reserving certain water areas for project
beneficiaries to build artificial reefs and enjoy exclusive fishing rights
would require extra efforts by government law enforcement officials who have
not been entirely successful in stopping detrimental activities in the past.
7.17      BFAR's current programs in the Region, formulated at head office
in Manila, are promoting more sophisticated gear for municipal fishermen and
the clearing of more mangroves for fishponds, twc, practices which are incon-
sistent with those proposed in this project. Also, BFAR central is unwill-
ing to stop destructive "muro-ami" fishing /1 on the reefs because of the
lack of alternative employment for fishermen. If the p-roject is to be
successful, the above practices would have to be curtailed, if not stopped,
and they are the subject of continuing discussions between the central and
regional offices of the Ministry of Natural Resources.
/1 Dropping rocks onto reefs to frighten fish into nets.



- 47 -
7.18      Other risks of the fisheries component are that an excessive
build-up of fishermen in the nearshore areas would negate positive benefits
from the project; the danger that controlling open access to artificial
reefs, mangroves and, later, coral reefs would lead to social unrest; and
the possibility that assumed yields with the project are optimistic since
the research on which they are based is limited.
7.19      Land occupants at all sites have expressed strong interest in
participating in the project. The prospect of long-term stewardship over
their land is a powerful incentive to join the programs. The settlers are
also attracted by the proposal to reward labor for conservation and rehabili-
tation works with payments in-kind, and by the opportunity to be introduced
to, and be advised on, new production technologies. The project provides
adequate management resources and support services to achieve its objectives.
Cost Recovery
7.20      The project would not attempt to recover the relatively small
investment costs from farmer and fishermen participants for two reasons: (a)
beneficiaries' income at full development would be only moderately above
absolute poverty levels; and (b) a modest government input is necessary to
induce farmers and fishermen to shift from current practices to practices
which conserve the soil and nearshore resources in the project areas.
Conservation measures to be carried out on the upland farms would result in
better soil retention, reduced water runoff and reduced siltation of the
rivers and coral reefs leading to benefits to all producers rather than
merely the project participants. In the forestry component, the project
would attempt to recover the initial on-farm investment costs from
beneficiaries through stumpage charges, which would be a percentage of the
market price of the cut wood at the farm gate. The details of amount and
timing of the stumpage charges would be recommended by the SMU and decided
by the RPO in coordination with RBFD during project execution. Benefits
from the planting of mangroves, building of artificial reefs and controlled
fishing would likewise extend beyond project beneficiaries to a larger
population of fishermen and sportsmen. In any case, labor contributed by
project participants would be equal to or greater than the in-kind
compensation which they would receive as planting material, tools, livestock
and agricultural chemicals.
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached that:
(a)  Government (MB) has sufficient funds to start the project in
1984 (4.03);



- 48 -
(b) RPO would appoint a Project Financial Controller by May 31, 1984 who
would follow accounting and auditing procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, and who would forward to the Bank by June 30 each year,
beginning in 1985, project accounts and auditors' reports for the
Philippine fiscal year (4.15);
(c)  RPO would acquire land, selected during 1983, establish five
SMUs to implement the upland agriculture and social forestry
programs of the project, and appoint five SMU managers by June 30,
1984 (5.11);
(d) RPO would request that BFD Central Office reserve the
Ayungon-Bindoy site for the social forestry program by June 30, 1984
(5.12);
(e)  RPO would establish four sub-SMUs to implement the nearshore
fisheries program of the project, and appcint four deputy SMU
managers by June 30, 1984 (5.15);
(f) RPO would designate RMA to provide support services under the pro-
ject, as set out in Project Working Papers No. 1 and No. 5, under
memoranda of agreement with RPO, and appoint officersin-charge of
the services by June 30, 1984 (5.21);
(g)  RPO would designate RBFD to provide support services under the
project, as set out in Project Working Papers No. 2 and No. 5, under
memoranda of agreement with RPO, and appoint officersin-charge of
the services by June 30, 1984 (5.23);
(h) RPO would designate RBFAR to provide support services under the
project, as set out in Project Working Papers No. 3 and No. 5, under
memoranda of agreement with R.PO, and appoint officers-in-charge
of the services by June 30, 1984 (5.24); and
(i) RPO would designate four PEOs (Cebu, Negros Oriental, Bohol,
Siquijor Provinces) to implement and maintain the infrastructure
program of the project, under memoranda of agreement with RPO, to
establish rural road construction sections within the PEOs, and to
appoint officers-in-charge of the programs; by June 30, 1984
(5.25).
8.02      The following key actions to implement the project are conditions
of loan effectiveness:
(a) that RPO's Board, through the Executive Director would establish
a revolving fund as a Special Account within the Central Bank
under the name of the Central. Visayas Regional Project (4.16); and



- 49 -
(b) that RPO's Board, through the Execu.ive Director, would place in
RPO an overall Project Manager with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank (5.06).
8.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.6 million equivalent to the Republic of the
Philippines, with a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years.



- 50 -                          Attachment I
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the tables below
(US$25.6 million including front-end fee):
Procurement method             Total
Project element                      ICB       LCB      Other     N.A.      cost
U--------- (US$ million) ------------
Construction equipment &             1.5        -         -        -         1.)
vehicles                          (1.4)                                   (1.4)
Equipment for farming, forestry    -            1.4       -        -         1.4
& fishing                                    (1.3)                        (1.3)
Buildings                            -          1.4       -        -         1.4
(1.1)                        (1.1)
Roads, trails & other                -          8.2       0.5      -         8.7
construction                                 (6.6)    (0.4)               (7.0)
Livestock                            -          -         I./      -         1.7
(1.5)              (1.5)
Seeds, seedlings, fertilizers,       -          4.4       0.2      -         4.6
chemicals, reef & other                      (4.0)    (0.1)               (4.1)
materials
Salaries & allowances                -          -         -        8.3       8.3
Travel, maintenance & office
supplies                           -          -         4.3      -         4.3
Training & technical                 -          -         3.1      -         3.1
assistance                                             (1.9)              (1.9)
Project preparation                  -          -         7.6      -         7.6
(6.0)              (6.0)
Physical contingencies /a            -          -         -         1.7      1.7
(1.2)    (1.2)
Front-end fee                        -          -         -         0.1      0.1
(0.1)    (0.1)
Total                           1.5       15.4      17.4     10.1      44.4
(1.4)    (13.0)    (9.9)    (1.3)   (25.6)
/a Includes price contingency on physical contingency.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amiounts financed by the
Bank.



_ 51 _                        Attachment 1
Page 2
Procurement Profile
Estimated contract           No. of          Cumulative             % total
sizes (including            contracts        value above           value above
contingencies)             (estimated)        threshold             threshold
(P '000)
I. Goods
Above 1,000                   2               2.3                   22
500 to 1,000                  3               3.9                   38
250 to 500                    5               4.8                   47
110 to 250                   10               7.0                   68
50 to 100                   40               9.9                   95
under 50                     75              10.3                   100
II. Civil works
Above 1,000                   1               1.5                    12
500 to 1,000                  3               3.6                   30
250 to 500                    3               4.8                   39
100 to 250                   17               9.2                   75
50 to 100                   30              11.0                   90
under 50                     45              12.2                  100
Construction equipment and vehicles (US$1.3 million) will be purchased
through ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines.  Eligible domestic
manufacturers would receive a pretenure at 15% of the c.i.f. price of the
imported goods, or the import duty, whichever is lower. The Provincial
Engineers' Offices would prepare the appropriate equipment and civil works
specifications and bidding documents. Hand tools and miscellaneous small
equipment as well as seeds, fertilizers, chemicals, reef and other materials
(US$6.8 million) would be purchased through LCB in accordance with Bank
guidelines; foreign suppliers would be eligible to participate. Other
equipment costing less than US$10,000 per unit will be purchased by prudent
shopping based on at least three price quotations. Civil works contracts
(US$8.2 million) will be awarded for the construction of new barangay roads,
trails and buildings after LCB. The size and scattered location of the
facilities will not be suitable for ICB; however, foreign contractors will
be eligible to participate. Resource conservation measures, including the
construction of artificial reefs and nearshore works, and their maintenance
will be carried out under force account by site management units which would
procure construction materials and supplies through normal commercial
channels. Consultants for training and technical assistance and the survey
and design of secondary roads would be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Procurement procedures would not apply to incremental salaries
and allowances for force account works. The first ICB document for equip-
ment and the first civil works contract would be subject to prior Bank review.



ANNEX 1
_52                             Page 1
PHILIPPI.NES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Regional Development Investment Program
1.        In the Philippine context, integrated area development (IAD) means
the grouping of adjoining municipalities and cities within the provinces of a
region. A prime rationale for grouping in the Central Visayas was to achieve
economies of scale in the development process since many municipalities had
limited staff and financial resources. Another motivation was the need to
incorporate "local" projects, those generated from within municipalities and
to facilitate their integration into IAD programs. In Region VII, the mayors
of the grouped municipalities and cities constituted an IAD council, and a
chairman and vice chairman were elected from among them. An IAD Officer was
also appointed to the IAD Council, one of the regional line agency directors,
providing a valuable link to the RDC, in addition to that provided by NRO
staff who also sat on the IAD councils. The IAD Chairmen became automatic
members of the Provincial Development Councils (PDCs) thus completing the
linkages between the key regional development agencies. The municipal and
provincial development officers (MDOs and PDOs), employed by the Ministry of
Local Government, as well as the municipal and provincial coordinating
officers (MCOs and PCOs), employed by local governments, were key personnel in
IAD programming.
2.        The MDOs or MACOs, with the mayors, compiled and fomulated local
projects, and presented them at public hearings as a prelude to "legitimiza-
tion" through formal adoption of the IAD plans by the RDC. Because of limited
expertise, funds and equipment, technical assistance had to be provided to the
IAD staffs by either NEDA, the provincial governments, the regional line
agencies, or local consultants.  Designation of technical assistance to the
IADs was the responsibility of the NEDA Regional Executive Director, as Vice
Chairman and Executive Officer of the RDC.
3.        The IAD project packages were consolidated into a regional program.
During this process, the IAD projects were screened to enhance the viability
and efficiency of the package. In addition, ongoing, pipeline, and proposed
projects of the national and regional line agencies were catalogued, reviewed,
and integrated with the IAD projects. Moreover, projects related to the
private sector "interface" were included. These were public investments
designed to facilitate investments by the private sector, and arose from
dialogues between the RDC and representative private sector organizations such
as the Chamber of Commerce, the Bankers Association, the Tourist Board, and
the Dean-s Committee of private universities. The next step was a review of
the total regional project package, relating it to the objectives of the
regional development plan. Any prograin "voids" were filled by "augmentation,"



ANNEX 1
- 53-                           Page 2
the adding of projects conceived by the regional team to complete the RDIP.
The procedures are described in detail in the Region VII Inception Report./l
4.        Once the compilation of TAD, line agency, private sector interface,
and augmented projects was completed, the RDIP was segmented along sectoral
lines to facilitate regional budgeting and agency funding. The sectoral
segments were presented together to comprise the fully "integrated" RDIP which
was to become the basis for regional budgeting. In Region VII, preparation of
the inception report took six months, including the initial training of NEDA,
line agency and IAD staff.
5.        Subsequent stages of RDIP preparation involved more detailed
analyses of projects in financial and economic terms. The Region VII reports
contained detailed project description sheets which facilitated data record-
ing. As the projects were more thoroughly costed, the budget requirements for
the RDIP were estimated, including disbursement time frames, foreign exchange
requirements, and contingencies to compensate for inflation. Since the RDIP
was designed to implement the five-year plan, a five-year time frame was
adopted.
6.        An assessment of RDIP funding prospects and possibilities was
included. Projects could be funded from local (municipal and provincial),
regional, national, or international sources recognizing that sub-national
sources of revenue were limited. Methodology was devised to "prioritize"
projects.
7.        Special studies and investigations were necessary to fill data gaps
which improved the formulation of certain projects. In the case of Region
VII, commodity flow, industrial, and public finance and credit surveys, as
well as refinement of regional macro-economic indicators and projections, were
included among the studies. The Region VII RDIP proceeded through three
stages. Following an inception report prepared in 1978, an interim report was
completed by the end of March 1979. It included details of projects,
including their integration into programs, their sectoral segmentation,
and preliminary cost analyses. The third and final stage of the Region VII
RDIP was completed in the form of a Regional Development Project Report /2 by
September 30, 1979. Preparation of the first draft of the Region VII RDIP
took about eighteen months and part of it was presented to the Bank as the
basis for a possible regional project./3
/1 Central Visayas RDIP Project Inception Report. RDC and NRO
Region VII. August, 1978.
/2 Philippines: Regional Development Investment Program for Central
Visayas (Region VII). Seven volumes. Region VII RDC and NRO.
September, 1979.
/3 Phillippines: Proposed RDIP package for World Bank regional project
funding. Central Visayas (Region VII). Region VII RDC and NRO.
October, 1979.



ANNEX 2
- 54 -                              Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISA.YAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Regional and Project Setting
Regional Setting
1.        The Central Visayas has a total land area of 14,950 sq km, or
about 5% of the country-s total area. The province of Negros Oriental
occupies 36% of the regional land area, Cebu 34%, Bohol 28% and SiquiLjor 2%.
Of the total area, about 46% is classified as forest land of which 26.6% is
timberland and 19.2% is unclassified public land. Alienable and disposable
(A&D) /1 lands comprise the other 54% of the classified area.
2.        Soils.  The soils of the! Region are of variable fertility and
highly erodible. The soil parent material in Cebu and Bohol is mainly
limestone, especially along the coastal areas, but inland soils are often
formed from shales with a high calcareous content. The soils of Negros
Oriental are formed predominantly from acidic igneous materials, with low
calcium content, except for the northeastern and western parts which are
formed from limestone. Siquijor I'sland is mostly of coralline limestone
formation except for the central area where soils are formed from calcareous
shale.
3.        Climate.  Located south and west of the Philippine typhoon zone,
most of the Central Visayas has a short dry season lasting from one to three
months during the high sun period (April to September).  Southwestern Bohol
receives evenly distributed rainfall with no distinct seasonality.
Southwestern Negros Oriental has a four-month dry season during the low sun
period (October through March).  Average daily mean temperatures range
from 180 C to 350 C. The wet season extends from May to December with an
average annual rainfall ranging from 1,500 to 2,500 mm. During heavy rains,
mainly between June and October, run-off is rapid even on moderate slopes
causing severe soil erosion.
4.        Population.  The Region's population reached 3.8 million in 1980,
representing 8% of the Philippine total, and grew at an annual rate of 2.3%
during the decade 1971-80.  It is distributed unevenly among tlhe four
provinces: 55% in Cebu, 22% in Negros Oriental, 21% in Bohol and 2% in
Siquijor.  About 70% of the total population is defined as rural.  Average
/1 Alienable and disposable lands are non-forested, available for titling
and private ownership.



ANNEX 2
- 55 -                             Page 2
density is 253 persons per sq km or 60% greater than the national average.
Cebu Province, in particular, has a high population density - 410 persons
per sq km - not only in urban areas such as Cebu City, the country's second
largest city, but also in rural areas where the density of population per
cultivated area is greater than on the other islands. The population is
young, with 43% under age 15 years.
5.        Economy.  The regional economy grew at an annual rate of about 5%
during the period 1978-80 with gross regional product (GRP) rising from
P 12.6 billion in 1978 to P 18.8 billion in 1980 at current prices. Its
share (7%) of gross national product ranks fifth in the country. Per capita
GRP was P 4,960 in 1980, and has been growing at a rate of 2.9% annually
since 1978. Although 10-15% lower than the national average, it is
comparable to rates for regions outside metro Manila.
6.        The Central Visayas has a relatively small agricultural sector but
large industrial and service sectors. Agriculture, fisheries and forestry,
while providing some of the Region's major export commodities (sugar, coconut
and copra) account for about 20% of the regional economy - the lowest
contribution by agriculture to GRP in any region except metro Manila. On
the other hand, industry (mining and quarrying, manufacturing, construction,
electricity, gas and water) accounts for the highest share of any regional
economy except metro Manila because of above average contributions by mining,
agro-processing and services (shipping and commerce).
7.        The official rate of unemployment is about 7% for the Region, and
is higher in Cebu (8%) than in the other provinces. Average family income
is estimated to be 12% less than the national average, but is about the same
as in regions other than metro Manila. In 1975, the poorest 60% of the
Region's families received 15% of total family incomes, while those in the
10% highest income bracket received 37%. The average reported rural income
(P 4,700/family/year) was 72% of the average reported urban income
(P 6,500).
Project Setting
8.        Sites.  Project sites are located in the municipalities of Badian,
Alegria and Dalaguete in Cebu Island Province; in the municipalities of
Bayawan and Basay in the Bayawan River watershed of Negros Oriental Province;
in the municipalities of Talibon, Trinidad, San Miguel, Ubay and Danao in the
Ipil River watershed of Bohol Island Province; and in the six municipalities
of Siquijor Island Province.
9.        Social Forestry.  The social forestry site in the Ayungon and Bindoy
municipalities of Negros Oriental Province was chosen independently by local
authorities and RBFD as the most appropriate area for testing a social
forestry development model for future regionwide and national application.
The 17,363 ha site was formerly part of a timber concession licensed to the



ANNEX 2
56                                Page 3
Philippine-American Timber Company Inc.  It has a significant remnant of
primary forest and a large area of ::Logged over forest in which indigenous and
immigrant cultivators have settled since local forest concessions were
cancelled in 1979.
10.       As Cebu Island is long and narrow, there are few large rivers and
the watersheds are correspondingly small. In the Badian-Alegria site,
several smaller watersheds have been combined. This is in contrast with
both the Bohol and Negros Oriental sites where watersheds are larger and
population densities lower. The larger watersheds would be developed only
partially during the project period but are treated as whole development
units to be consistent with the project concept of the watershed as the basic
project unit. To provide more flexibility in planning and subsequent
development, all of Siquijor Island has been included as one site. Like the
larger watersheds, it is expected thilat only part of the Island would be
developed during the project period.
11.       Nearshore Fisheries.  Nearshore sites are tied to the watersheds
in that the municipalities in which the watershed river meets the sea are
included.  As this area may be smal.L, sites have been extended along the
coastlines to provide project units of reasonable size and to include nearby
areas of special interest.  For example, the Badian-Alegria nearshore site
has been extended northward to Ronda to include the coral reef area of
Moalboal and Capton Bay with its mangrove areas.
12.       The upland agriculture and forestry sites encompass 19 municipal-
ities with 20,248 farm families.  Nearshore sites include 18 municipalities
with 7,700 fishing families. Total area of the sites is more than 140,000
ha, 55% (77,053 ha) of which is public land, and the total population is
just over 200,000 (Table 1).
Table 1: LAND CLASSIFICATION AND POPULATION, PROJECT SITES
Total     Ali,enable and
area        di3posable        Public land    Population
Site                   (ha)        Ha         %       Ha         %      (1982)
Siquijor              29,550      26,800       90     2,750      10       58,068
Badian-Alegria        24,600        9,519     39    15,081       61       41,094
Bayawan                31,148       2,348       8    28,800      92       37,460
Ayungon                17,363       4,066      23    13,297      77        7,200
Ipil River            37,567      20,442       54    17,125      46       63,444
Total           140,228      63,175      45    77,053       55     202,266



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
Fellowships /1
Number
of     Project
Subject matter      Type      Local Foreign  fellows  year(s)
RPO    Project planning  Non-degree           X         2     PY3
RMA    Upland farming    Non-degree            X        4     PY2-5
Soil conservation Non-degree           X         4     PY2-5
Tree crops        Non-degree           X         4     PY2-5
RBFD   Appropriate
technology       Study tour           X         4     PY2-5
Soil conservation Non-degree           X         4     PY2-5
Smallholder
forestry         Non-degree           X         2     PY1-2
Mangrove manage-
ment             Non-degree           X         2     PY1-2
Forest stand
improvement      Study tour   X                10     PY1-2
PY3
Reforestation      Study tour   X                I     PY1-2
X        1     PY3
Forest protection Study tour   X                 1     PY1-2
X        1     PY3
PEOs   Road engineering  Study tour            X        4     PY2
Total                                       44
/1 Fellowships would complement project-funded training activities.
A total of 12 local study tours and 32 overseas fellowships would
be offered in 11 different subjects. Refer Project Working Paper
No. 5.



- 58 -
ANNEX' 3
Table 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
Consultancies /1
Number
of staff-   Project
Title                        Type               months    year(s)
RPO
Project management              Foreign              20        PY1-2,4
Personnel evaluation            Local                 3        PY1,2
Sociology                       Local                 7        PY1-4
Socio-economic surveys          Special study         -        PYl
Project planning                Foreign               6        PY3,4
Project planning                Local                12        PY3,4
Training                        Local                48        PY1-4
Communications                  Local                 1        PY1
Extension materials             Foreign               2        PY1-3
Monitoring and evaluation       Foreign              17        PY1-5
Monitoring and evaluation       Local                34        PY1-5
Upland development              Local                 8        PY1-3
Soil conservation               Foreign               8        PYI-3
Low-cost pasture                Foreign               2        PYl
Social forestry                 Foreign               9        PY1-5
Forest Products Marketing       Local                15        PY1-5
Community organizations         Local                36        PY1-5
Marine extension                Local                 5        PY1-5
Marine extension                Foreign               5        PY1-5
Fisheries curriculum dev.       Local                 5        PY1-5
Aerial Photo Ground
Controls Mapping             Special Study         -        PY-1



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 2
Number
of staff-   Project
Title                        Type               months    year(s)
Fisheries monitoring design      Foreign               4        PY1,3
Fisheries monitoring design      Local                  4       PY1,3
Fisheries monitoring data col.  Local                 20        PYl-5
Fisheries monitoring data anal. Foreign                 4       PY3,5
Fisheries monitoring data anal. Local                  4        PY3,5
Construction supervision         Foreign               18       PY2-3
Mabinay irrigation feasibility  Special study           -       PY3
San Isidro impounding
reservation                    Special study         -        PY3
Subtotal                                          297
RBFD
Legal services                 Special study         -        PY1-5
Forest stand improvement       Local                  I       PYI
Resource inventory             Local                 3        Pyi
Monitoring                     Local                  3       Pyi
Silviculture                   Local                 3        PY2
Socio-economic survey          Special study         -        PYi
Forest market survey           Special study         -        PY2
Photogrammetry and             Special study         -        PY1,2,5
interpretation
RMA
Farming systems research       Local                 5        Pyi
Research management            Local                  3       PYi
Soil fertility                 Local                 3        Pyi



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 3
Number
of staff-   Project
Title                         Type               months    year(s)
RBFAR
Fishpond supervision          Foreign                3        PY3
Fishpond supervision          Local                  6        PY3
Seaweed inventory              Special Study         -        PY2-3
Coastal waters mapping         Special Study         -        PY2-3
Subtotal                                     30
Total                                       327
/1 Consultancies would provide support to project and line agency
personnel in implementing the project and replicating it in other
watersheds of the Region. "Consultancies" include individual
assignments filled by outside technical and managerial specialists,
and special studies and services vital to effective implementation
of the project. These latter studies and services would be awarded
to outside groups on a contractual piece-rate basis. TbLe project
envisions a total of 327 staff-months of consultants' services,
including 98 staff-months of foreign technical assistance and 229
staff-months of local consultants. In addition, the project would
commission ten special studies and management services on a
piece-rate basis. Consultancies and special studies supplied
directly to the RPO and SMUs would account for 297 staff-months;
technical assistance to the line agencies would cover 30 staff-
months. Refer Project Working Paper No. 5.



- 61 -                         ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(US$ million)
Representative
Bank profiles/c
IBRD Fiscal Year                                    Region-wide  Bank-wide
and Semester       Semester   Cumulative    %    Cumulative   Cumulative
1984     2nd /a      3.1          3.1        12           0          0
1985     1st         1.0          4.1        16           2          1
2nd         1.5          5.6        22           4          4
1986     1st         2.0          7.6        30           8          7
2nd         2.0          9.6        38         13         11
1987     1st         2.0         11.6        45          19         17
2nd         3.0         14.6        57         26         23
1988     1st         3.0         17.6        69          33         30
2nd         3.0         20.6        80         41         38
1989     1st         3.5         24.1        94          49         46
2nd /b      1.0         25.1       98          57         54
1990     1st         0.5         25.6       100          65         63
2nd           -            -         -          72        72
1991     1st           -            -         -          79         78
2nd           -            -         -          86        85
1992     1st           -             -        -          91         91
2nd           -            -         -          96        96
1993     1st           -            -         -         100        100
/a  Estimated loan effectiveness date:  March 31, 1983.  Immediate
disbursements include repayment of the PPF ($1.1 million) and the
revolving fund ($2.0 million).
/b  Estimated loan closing date:  September 30, 1990, one year after
completion.
/c  Profiles for Region-wide and Bank-wide Area Development projects:
28 and 85 in number, respectively.     -



- 62 -                                 ANNEX 5
Table I
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Investment Schedule /a
(P million)
Total
US$
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   Pesos  million
Watershed Management
Upland agriculture                    13.8   11.7   20.4   26.7   33.1  105.7         7.6
Social forestry                       12.2    0.5   13.3   15.3   12.7   62.0         4.4
Nearshore fisheries                    4.8,   3.6    3.9    4.3    4.6   21.2         1.5
Infrastructure                        22.5   57.8   52.,3   44.0   22.0  198.6    14.2
Subtotal Watershed Management   53.3   81.6   89.,9   90.3   72.4  387.5    27.7
Support Services
Institution Strengthening
Ministry of Agriculture
Soil                              2.1    1.7    2.6    2.2    2.7   11.3         0.8
Livestock                          3.7    7.2   10.2    2.8    1.0   24.9        1.8
Ministry of Natural Resources
RBFD reforestation                 4.6    2.6    3.5    3.5    5.3   19.5        1.4
RBFAR regulatory                   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.5        0.1
Regional Projects Office             2.6    2.7    3.3    2.7    2.0   13.3        0.9
Training                               2.0    1.8    1.6    1.4    1.4    8.2         0.6
Technical assistance                   9.3    4.5    6.9    1.4    2.2   24.3         1.7
Research                              11.4    3.4    3.4    2.9    3.1   24.2         1.7
Subtotal Support Services         35.8   24.0   31.6   17.0   17.8  126.2         9.0
Project preparation                     41.8   44.3   19.0    1.7    -    106.8         7.6
Total Project Costs               130.9  149.9  140.5  109.0   90.2  620.5    44.3
Taxes                                    5.4    5.4    5.3    5.2    4.6   25.9         1.8
Foreign exchange                        77.8   85.0   65.9   40.1   24.4  293.2    20.9
/a  By calendar, and Philippine fiscal year.  Totals include contingencies.



PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGONAL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year
1985         1986         1987        1988        1989         1990
Watershed Management
Staff recruitment                  _
Buildings
Bid preparation
Award/implementation                         _
Civil works
Bid preparation                         _
Award/implementation                          _
Support Services
RPO recruitment
MA civil works
Bid preparation
Award/implementation
MNR civil works
Bid preparation
Award/implementation
Training                                     ._--_-
Research
Project Preparation
Note: Bid preparation and award of contracts for establishing SMV's and to carry out project
infrastructure works would continue on later years works as physical implementation prceeds.                       C15
31~
LR



- 64 -                                       ANEX 6
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices of Project Inputs
(1983 constant Pesos)
1983                                1995
Conversion                           Conversion
Unit  Financial      factor   Economic   Financial        factor   Economic
FARMING AND FORESTRY
Rural unskilled labor             day      11.00       0.75       8.25          11.00      0.75        8.25
BFD unskilled labor               day      15.00       0.55        8.25         15.00      0.55         8.25
Fertilizers
Urea                            MT       2,787       0.87      2,415          3,935      0.87       3,425
14-14-14                        MT       2,676       0.87      2,328          3,797      0.87       3,303
0-18-0                          MT       1,494       0.87      1,300          2,120      0.87       1,844
Ammonia sulfate                 MT       1,254       0.87      1,090          1,770      0.87       2,034
Pesticides
Thiodin                     60 cc bt    13.83        0.87      12.03          19.62      0.87       17.07
Sevin                      80 oz bt    39.00         0.87      33.93          55.34      0.87       48.15
Lannate                        qt ht    94.78        0.87      82.46         134.48      0.87      117.00
Asodrin                        qt bt    63.55        0.87      55.29          90.16      0.87       78.44
Fungicides
Benlate                         kg       33.45       0.87      29.10          47.46      0.87       41.29
Other Chemicals
Mango bloom                     it       35.68       0.87      31.04          50.62      0.87       44.04
Glyphosate                      lt      111.50       0.87      97.00         158.19      0.87      137.62
Veterinary Medicine
Antibiotic                    100 cc       243       0.82     199.26            243      0.82      199.26
Anti-ticks                    500 g        285       0.82    233.70             285      0.82      233.70
Vitamins A, D, E
and B complex               150 cc       112       0.82      91.84            112      0.82       91.84
Seeds
Paddy                          kg         1.90       0.82       1.56           1.90      0.82        1.56
Corn traditional               kg         1.45       0.82       1.19           1.45      0.82        1.19
Corn improved                  kg         2.90       0.82       7.31           8.92      0.82        7.31
Corn hybrid                    kg        18.96       0.82       9.14          11.15      0.82        9.14
Peanuts                        kg         8.92       0.82      10.39           8.92      0.82       10.39
Mungbean                       kg        11.15       0.82       9.14          11.15      0.82        9.14
Sweet potato                   kg         1.67       0.82      15.54          18.96      0.82       15.54
Albizzia                       It        55.80       0.82      45.76          55.80      0.82       45.76
Gmelina                        It        16.70       0.82      13.69          16.70      0.82       13.69
Swietenia                     10 lt      56.00       0.82      45.92          56.00      0.82       45.92
Rattan/Burt             1,000 seeds    22.00         0.82      18.04          22.00      0.82       18.04
Bamboo                    100 seeds    55.80         0.82      45.75          55.80      0.82       45.75
Other Planting Material
Mango                       seedling      5.00       0.82        4.10          5.00      0.82        4.10
Cacao                      seedling       2.00       0.82       1.64           2.00      0.82        1.64
Jackfruit                   seedling      5.00       0.82       4.10           5.00      0.82        4.10
Banana                      10 shoots     5.00       0.82       4.10           5.00      0.82        4.10
Avocado                    seedling       5.00       0.82       4.10           5.00      0.82        4.10
Cashew                     seedling       5.00       0.82       4.10           5.00      0.82        4.10
Ipil-Ipil                  seedling       2.00       0.82       1.64           2.00      0.82        1.64
Sawlog                     seedling       5.00       0.82       4.10           5.00      0.82        4.10
Gabi                        50 shoots     5.00       0.82       4.10           5.00      0.82        4.10
Grass cuttings          1,000 pieces      5.00       0.82       4.10           5.00      0.82        4.10



-65 -                                     ANNEX 6
Table 1
PRop 2 of 2
1983                               1995
Conversion                          Conversion
Unit  Financial    factor   Economic   Financial    factor   Economic
FARMING A4D FORESTRY (Cont'd)
Equipment and Services
Carabao with operator       day         17.80       0.86      15.30         17.80      0.86      15.30
Pick                        piece       72.50       0.86      62.35         72.50      0.86       62.50
Digging bar                 piece       72.50       0.86      62.35         72.50      0.86       62.35
Shovel                      piece       72.50       0.86      62.35         72.50      0.86       62.35
Machete                     piece       50.20       0.86      43.17         50.20      0.86       14.17
Trombone sprayer            piece      335.00       0.86    288.10         335.00      0.86      288.10
Backpack sprayer            piece      560.00       0.86    481.60         560.00      0.86      481.60
Plow point                  piece       50.20       0.86      43.17         50.20      0.86       43.17
Heavy duty hoe              piece       50.20       0.86      43.17         50.20      0.86       43.17
Water tank                  piece       3,345       0.86      2,877         3,345      0.86       2,877
Plastic bags           1,000 bags        55.8       0.86      50.00          55.8      0.86          50
Wlheelbarrow                piece         223       0.86        192           223      0.86         792
Planting hoe                piece         128       0.86        110           128      0.86         110
Brush hooks                 piece         156       0.86        134           156      0.86         134
Bow saw                     piece         167       0.86        144           167      0.86         144
Pruning shears              piece         117       0.86        100           117      0.86         100
Log picks                   piece          89       0.86         76            89      0.86          76
Log tongs                   piece          95       0.86         82            95      0.86          82
Chain saw, 36"              piece       5,854       0.86      5,034         5,854      0.86       5,034
FISHERIES
Bamboo poles                  pole         6.69       0.82       5.49          6.69      0.82        5.49
(tropical reefs)
Fishing gear - hook line    man          111.50       0.86      95.89        144.95      0.86      124.66
Fish traps                  trap       167.25       0.86    143.83         167.25      0.86      143.83
Nylon twine                   100 m        6.69       0.86       5.75          8.72      0.86        7.50
Rice bags (polyethylene)    bag            2.23       0.86       1.92          2.90      0.86        2.49
Mangrove seedlings            ha         557.00       0.82    456.74         557.00      0.82      456.74
Reef markers
- buoys                   buoy       111.50       0.86      95.89        144.95      0.86      124.66
- anchor rope             rope         3.90       0.86       3.35          5.07      0.86        4.36
- anchor                  anchor    167.30        0.86    143.88         167.30      0.86      143.88
Nonmotorized banca
- 7-3M                    banca   1,561.00        0.86  1,342.46       1,951.00      0.86   1,342.46
Gillnet                       unit       892.00       0.86    767.12       1,160.00      0.86      997.60



- 66 -                             hNNLX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices of Project Outputs
(1983 constant Pesos)
1983                    1995
Unit      Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic
Annual Crops
Rice (paddy)                    kg         1.34         1.44        1.64       1.74
Corn                            kg         1.12         1.07        1.22       1.27
Cassava                         kg         0.45         0.37        0.45       0.37
Sweet Potatoe                   kg         1.00        0.82         1.00       0.82
Gabi (Taro)                     kg         1.34         1.10        1.34       1.10
Peanuts                         kg         3.68         3.02        5.13       4.21
Mungbeans                       kg         6.13         5.03        6.91       5.67
Tree Crops
Cacao                           kg        26.86       22.03        27.47      22.53
Jackfruit                     piece        4.47         3.66        5.59       4.58
Mango                           kg         2.23         1.83        2.79       2.29
Banana                      100 pieces     3.90        3.12         3.90       3.12
Avocado                       piece        0.67         0.55        0.84       0.69
Cashew                          kg         6.24         5.12        7.80       6.40
Ipil-ipil leaves                kg         0.50         0.41        0.75       0.62
Livestock
Cattle                        kg lw       11.00       12.07        11.00      12.07
Goats                         kg lw        7.25         7.96        7.25       7.96
Upland Forestry
Fuelwood /a
Mixed species on-farm    cm             55.85       75.84       83.77    1L13.76
Dipterocarps/Gmelina       m tons          78          291         117        408
Albizzia                    m tons         78         233          117        326
Flitches from Dipterocarps 100 bd ft  14.50           11.89        14.50      11.89
Swietenia poles               pole        27.88       22.86        27.86      22.86
Rattan poles                  pole        10.69         8.64       10.69       8.69
Buri poles                    pole         5.58         4.57        5.58       4.57
Sawlogs
Albizzia                    cu m          217          377         281        470
Gmelina                     cu m          329          572         426        725
Swietenia                  cu m           830       1,436        1,070      1,819
Coastal Forestry
Mangrove                      cu m        86.50      117.47       130.00    176.54
Nipa                          cu m        90.00      122.22       135.00    183.33
Marine Products
Finfish                         kg         7.11         5.83       10.66       8.74
Shrimp                          kg        20.07       16.46        30.10      24.68
Crabmeat                        kg        27.88       22.86        41.82      34.29
Molluscs                        kg         2.23         1.83        3.35       2.75
Sea cucumber                    kg        11.15         9.14       16.73      13.72
/a The mixed species collected from small farmers by truckers and traders is
assigned a lower farm-gate price than the special species such as
Dipterocarps, Gmelina and Albizzia, which are assumed to he grown in
Ayungon-Bindoy, i.e. Social Forestry component of the project, and sold to
the sugar mills of Negros Provinces with the accompanying benefit of reduced
transportation and trading costs.



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
('000 Pesos at end 1982 prices)
Net
Incremental        Incremental          incremental
No.         Year              costs            benefits             benefits
1          1984              51,540                -13             -51,553
2           1985             68,887              1,012             -67,876
3           1986             77,539              5,766             -71,773
4           1987             77,081             12,686             -64,395
5           1988             71,472             21,099             -50,374
6           1989             28,073             34,224                6,151
7          1990              24,580             48,700              24,120
8           1991             23,809             63,652               39,843
9           1992             25,487             75,455               49,968
10          1993              28,027             96,107              68,080
11           1994             18,739            129,446             110,708
12           1995             21,249            176,012              154,762
13           1996             23,744            194,766             171,022
14           1997             25,689            166,417             140,728
15           1998             27,691            179,794             152,103
16           1999             28,680            202,194              173,514
17          2000              29,225            162,210              132,985
18          2001              29,781            139,292             109,511
19          2002              30,429            145,477             115,049
20           2003             31,078            155,994              124,916
21           2004             31,320            156,459              125,139
22           2005             31,462            157,017              125,555
23           2006             30,556            156,915              126,359
24           2007             30,517            230,931              200,414
25           2008             31,473            230,137              198,665
Sensitivity analysis:                        ERR             NPV at 10%
(P million)
Base case                                  17.5              267.1
Costs up 20%                               14.8              187.5
Benefits down 20%                          14.2              134.0
Benefits delayed 2 years                   13.7              151.6
Switching value of benefits -40.1
Switching value of costs        67.1



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Upland Agriculture:  Incremental Costs and Benefits
('000 Pesos at end 1982 prices)
Costs                                                   Benefits
Site                                                                     Incremental
Incremental              Management  Technical                  Infra-                  Regional        total
No.   Year      cost        Labor        unit      aIssistance  Livestock  structure  Training   management    benefits
1    1984           -          -       9,510.0      2,223.1    4,592.1       7,680.6    534.0        621.4              -
2    1985       4,239      1,140.3    7,856.5         912.9    3,755.5    18,528.0    396.4          617.2            164.5
3    1986       5,288.6   3,818.9   11,268.0        1,235.1    6,289.0    15,918.2    318.1          593.8          2,508.2
4    1987      14,760.0   7,331.8   11,210.0          507.0       658.5    12,303.9    276.2         559.4          7,544.9
5    1988      23,699.5  10,075.1   10,893.2          394.6       557.8      5,915.4    253.8        384.6         15,095.3
6    1989         509.3   6,674.5    5,311.8                    1,593.4      2,374.6                 406.9         24,415.1
7    1990       1,323.8   5,098.0    5,311.8                    1,593.41     2,374.6                 406.9         31,917.7
8    1991       3,162.8   2,756.1    5,311.8                    1,593.4      2,374.6                 406.9         44,276.8
9    1992       5,997.4   1,870.7    5,311.8                    1,593.4      2,374.6                 406.9         57,562.9
10    1993       9,136.4   1,085.5    5,311.8                    1,593.4      2,374.6                 496.5         67,539.5
11    1994      10,065.2   1,202.8                                            2,374.6                 406.9         76,297.0
12    1995      11,311.3   1,320.1                                            2,374.6                 406.9         83,369.2
13    1996      12,912.1   1,437.5                                            2,374.6                 406.9         88,889.1
14    1997      14,875.5   1,554.8                                            2,374.6                 406.9         94,313.5
15    1998      16,737.5   1,672.1                                            2,374.6                 496.5         99,482.7
16    1999      18.399.0   1,789.4                                            2,374.6                 406.9        105,233.9
17    2000      19,720.1   1,903.5                                            2,374.6                 406.9        109,986.5
18    2001      20,441.4   1,999.2                                            2,374.6                 406.9        112,954.5
19    2002      20,619.2   2,059.1                                            2,374.6                 406.9        113,768.1
20    2003      20,620.6   2,073.8                                            2,374.6                 496.5        114,312.6
21    2004      20,614.6   2,073.8                                            2,374.6                 406.9        114,778.1
22    2005      20,601.2   2,073.8                                            2,374.6                 406.9        115,335.7
23    2006      20,583.1   2,073.8                                            2,374.6                 406.9        115,234.1
24    2007      20,566.0   2,073.8                                            2,374.6                 406.9        114,668.7
25    2008      20,566.0   2,073.8                                            2,374.6                 406.9        113,874.7
Sensitivity analysis:                        ERR              NPV at 10%
(Pmillions)
Base case                                 17.7                156.6
Costs up 20%                              14.7                105.8
Benefits down 20%                         12.6                 74.5
Benefits delayed 2 years                  13.6                 85.3
Switching value of benefits   -38.1%
Switching value of costs         61.6%



PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Social Forestry: Incremental Costs and Benefits
('000 Pesos at end 1982 prices)
Costs                                                                        Benefits
Investment
cost       Labor cost         Site                                                                            Forest
Tree      reforest-  forest stand  management                 Technical    Regional    Infra-                            strand         Off-farm
No.   Year   nursery    ation         improvement        unit      Training  assistance  management  structure  Reforestation  improvement  reforestation
1    1984    557.1          362.1          -          8,199.6       534.0    2,223.1         621.4        7,680.6            -              -            -13.1
2    1985    485.8       2,159.5         233.7         3,559.0      396.4        912.9       617.2       18,528.0             -           846.3          -38.9
3    1986    827.1       5,194.4         799.5         3,153.7      318.1     1,235.1        593.8       15,918.2             -         2,961.9         -103.2
4    1987    436.6       6,528.5       1,104.1         3,740.3      276.2       507.0        559.4       12,303.9             -         4,231.4         -133.0
5    1988      78.7      4,632.6       1,076.6         3,740.3      253.8       394.6        384.6        5,915.4             -         4,231.4         -221.5
6    1989                    76.6      1,076.6         2,812.7                               406.9        2,374.6        2,034.6        4,231.4         -146.2
7    1990                   252.0        933.1         3,557.5                               406.9        2,374.6        8,138.5        3,668.7         -125.5
8    1991                   291.1        574.5         1,815.8                               406.9        2,374.6       10,681.7        2,262.1          145.6
9    1992                   178.6        359.4         1,815.8                               406.9        2,374.6        9,586.2        1,418.2          349.8
10    1993                   138.6        359.4         1,815.8                               496.5        2,374.6       20,033.1        1,418.2          528.3
11    1994                   483.1        359.4                                               406.9        2,374.6       44,322.7        1,418.2          961.7     1
12    1995                 1,519.0        359.4                                               406.9        2,374.6       83,385.4        1,418.2        1,242.8    a
13    1996                2,296.0         359.4                                               406.9        2,374.6       96,246.2        1,418.2        1,546.9    '
14    1997                2,159.6         359.4                                               406.9        2,374.6       62,094.7        1,418.2        1,893.5     1
15    1998                2,025.4         359.4                                               496.5        2,374.6       69,775.3        1,418.2        2,388.8
16    1999                 1,504.0        359.4                                               406.9        2,374.6       86,291.4        1,418.2        2,490.2
17    2000                   502.7        359.4                                               406.9        2,374.6       41,343.1        1,418.2        2,670.7
18    2001                   242.6        359.4                                               406.9        2,374.6       15,348.1        1,418.2        2,748.5
19    2002                   651.8        359.4                                               406.9        2,374.6       20,700.3        1,418.2        2,748.5
20    2003                 1,136.5        359.4                                               496.5         2,374.6      30,672,3        1,418.2        2,748.5
21    2004                 1,720.3        359.4                                               406.9         2,374.6      74,516.9        1,418.2        2,748.5
22    2005                 1,821.4        359.4                                               406.9         2,374.6      94,653.3        1,418.2        2,748.5
23    2006                   933.7        359.4                                               406.9         2,374.6      42,884.5        1,418.2        2,748.5
24    2007                   911.8        359.4                                               406.9         2,374.6      37,185.9        1,418.2        2,748.5
25    2008                 1,929.7        359.4                                               406.9         2,374.6     123,820.0        1,418.2        2,748.5
Sensitivity analysis:                          ERR              NPV at 10%
(P million)
Base case                                   17.4                89.7
Costs up 20%                                15.0                66.5
Benefits down 20%                           19.9                37.0
Benefits delayed 2 years                    14.0                54.0
Switching value of benefits   -43.6%
Switching value of costs           73.4%
(1.) -



- 70 -
ANNEX 7
Table 4
PHILIP]?INES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Nearshore Fisheries:  Incremental Costs and Benefits
('000 Pesos at end 1982 prices)
Costs
Site                                             Benefit
Incremental              management              Technical    Regional   Incremental
No.   Year       cost /b   Labor /b        unit      Training  assistance  management    benefit
1    1984        433.4       -          2,389.0       534.0    2,223.1        621.4            -
2    1985        981.3       -           1,641.3      396.4       912.9       617.2            70.0
3    1986        981.3       -           1,641.3      318.1    1,235.1        593.8          399.4
4    1987      1,034.4       -           1,641.3      276.2       507.0       559.4        1,042.8
5    1988      1,064.6      10.4         1,641.3      253.8       394.6       384.6        1,992.9
6    1989          18.0    371.1        2,914.5                               406.9        3,688.9
7    1990        113.8    527.5          1,641.3                              406.9        5,099.6
8    1991        155.7    536.9          1,641.3                              406.9        5,885.8
9    1992        208.9    539.6          1,641.3                              406.9        6,537.7
10    1993        275.0    430.9          1,641.3                              496.5        6,588.1
11    1994        275.0    383.1                                               406.9        6,446.6
12    1995        328.8    440.6                                               406.9        6,595.9
13    1996        328.8    440.6                                               406.9        6,665.8
14    1997        328.8    440.6                                               406.9        6,697.3
15    1998        275.0    383.1                                               496.5        6,728.7
16    1999        275.0    383.1                                               406.9        6,760.2
17    2000        328.8    440.6                                               406.9        6,791.7
18    2001        328.8    440.6                                               406.9        6,823.1
19    2002        328.8    440.6                                               406.9        6,842.3
20    2003        275.0    374.0                                               496.5        6,842.3
21    2004        275.0    307.4                                               406.9        6,842.3
22    2005        328.8    307.4                                               406.9        6,842.3
23    2006        328.8    307.4                                               406.9        6,842.3
24    2007        328.8    307.4                                               406.9        6,842.3
25    2008        266.5    307.4                                               406.9       81,423.5
Sensitivity analysis:                         ERR             NPV at 10%
(P millions)
Base case                                  16.4                 20.8
Costs up 20%                               14.1                 15.1
Benefits down 20%                          13.6                 11.0
Benefits delayed 2 years                   13.3                 12.3
Switching.value of benefits   -42.3%
Switching value of costs          73.4%



- 71 -                        ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES
CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
Related Working Papers in the Project File
1. Upland Agriculture
2. Social Forestry
3. Nearshore Fisheries
4. Infrastructure
5. Training and Technical Assistance
6. Community Development
7. Land Use and Tenure
8. Detailed Cost Tables and Procurement Profile
9.  Financial and Economic Analysis
10.  Project Preparation Report, Vols. 1-4.  September 1982.






1BRD 17219
116e     CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                   l20,                                                   12e~ARL18
IlY EOGRARHICAL REGIONS,
NC(i NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
I, ILOCOS                   WESTERN VISAYAS                                                                              HL P( E
1 lacosNorte.          38 Aklan
2Abra                  3 ai                                                        CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL PROJECT
3 IfocnsSu             40 Antique
20'                               41  tltob                                                                                                                                      20'-
I Mauntion              42 Negt-os Occidental                                                                 Project    Provinlces
6 Bzg~tCENTRAL V1SAYAS
Banquet         ~~~43 Cebu                                                                               ___   PROJECT AREA
7 Penasn6ane            44 NegrosOriental                                                                                  MNCTE
11CAGAYAN VALLEY            45 Bohol                                                                                        MAIROR CTIS
8 Batanes               46 Siqaijor                                                                                       AIRPOA TS
9 Cagayan                EASTERN VISAYAS                              _       9                                 -        ROAILAY
10 Kelinga-Apayao                                                                                                          RAILWAYSanl  V~cPJBONARE
11 Isabela        ~~48 western Samtar                                                                               REG--    OIONCAL BOUNDARIES
1 2 IftSao               49 Eastemt Samar                                     Rpr                                          NERNAIONAL BOUN DARIES
13 Nueva Viscape         50 Leyte                              1NENTOALBUDRE
14 Qulrino               51 Southern Leyte           t.OOO 
III CENTRAL LUZON         ')1 WESIERN M4INDANIAO                           /
15 Nueva Ecija           52 Zamboanga del Norte
16 TatrIac                13 Zamboanga del Saur               2 
1 7 Zembales             54 B.anilnI 
IS PAnspange              55 Sulu 
19 8ulacan                56 Tawi-Tawi                       O1k
20 Battan              /NORTHfERN ISINDANAO                  ~
IV SOUTHERN TAGALOG.  57 Agusan del Norte  SWa                              ~       1
2 1Aurora                 58 A9usana del Sur    Fernando   5~      
23 Rital          ~~~~60 Camniguins                                                                       0 o     SD         5G0  200   20 300
le      24 Cavite                 61 PA  isan Ocnidental                                                                                                                          16'14KOM7E
25 Laguna                 62 MAsamini Oriental                                                             Mt15L AES,
25 Betangat       ~~~63 SurigaO del Norte                                                                 o         50         ot6       15        20
27 Maerinduque         /EASTERN MINDANAO,an2
29 Mlindoro Oriental      64 Dauo de Norte          TC              I
29 Mindoroc Occidental    65 Danao Oriental         1  1      *    cbnlo 
30 Rombhlon               66 Davao,oel Sur         Agel~            1
31 Pedawar,               67 South Cotabato                                    C
X!  ICOL                   68SrgodlOrO'nao 2                               2    \                                 H   IIIPP INE                S E  A
32 Gamarines Niorte   7?,II SOUTHIERN MINDANA0 
33 Camarines Stir        69 Lanao det Norte24                         -/
35 Albay                 71 Maguindanao                                     ogI
36 Sorsogor              72 North Cotelato                        \ 
37 Masbate               73 Sullen Rudiiat e3
31 
5OUTH  C H I N A~~~~~~~Pna GI   2 
Princena                                                                      urs9~~~~~~~~~~~~Ale
CHEA          A                                                                  3/                                    1   I     
5                                  N~~~~~~~~~~3 
J~~~~~~1R/OAAD  N~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~et
N            GEL EEES      SEA~~~~~~~~~~~ul
YS,~~~~~~~~~N             N ~ ~ ~ ~~,
- ,,-  Th!,-ht S,w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MAAYIA4                                                                                                        Ntr o,sen ,eaeenttt e,narese twenyIPuertonnenno
4,te wo,, -N enwnerf te teno anwa                                                                               /t Wntzw  oa heknerOt/
Gd                                                          r'noae Cnwwaan eta eownootnns maotA tnO nnoAleas/tOwn n Sha me 4/t6o
/  0000 o noat t o Ihoe B/txSht/t t(tetn//tA Aonc C,nnahen Otht/A/Coh
N  0  en  I Aoteetogarsatns n$a, 065/ttoSYor ate e/t,sowentarccoe?ance/t ~a/t/t D/tn/toneS
SULU S2CA28






IBRD 17031
l   H  >   2343                        f20fi3B       gV        70        345                                          bARClf 3033  1
J  Ph,lopiT U.            8             VrSAYAN   Sif A
Soo01                                C7                                                    <                                                  X % jV tL E YTE
ChoS* &7000
47<A 0704440       f                                                                                  !4V      8 1on
X   i   t 3acood Cily                     f        |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7o
-LOt LO
s t - 80 C C I D E N TA L                             <SCAMfOrE,, SEA
}   _ir  / C     SfJ ogWnsan          ->    4         70020
do  '.'shd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~esed,J
< ~~/                       s0XarcjroL  A/ tow
--N  E G  Rois                                                 /
R E -N TZA                          7 _L-C~ 
/ k /) < - < st~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3030
PHILIPPINES
(          \4DumCagueReC- S;q Uijor A                CENTRAL VISAYAS  REGIONAL
PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATIONS
-, i)07 ;   4gJ   \                   _ Project Areas
~~~~~~b- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Major Roads
4L  Ports
 Airports
Municipal Boundaries                  900
J  -   Provincial Bourncries
3514.0$,O t              20          30
KL OMETERS'    T3 -       2t t0
o23-D                                1933t                                 120,00                               124230 0






13RD 17032
' ;-, 2,5  0A.  >; 4BADIAN-ALEGRIA ;''u'9  _ ('>I![E 
-  Xi9  feanlo  rrvaon~t_St*7:  &00; 00\; 
li;it; \;0f'i;.0U.Ei v 2 2'it t,^--   ..       i                ...fsongl;  <sV     ,/       '2:20  ;;  :::  00  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
1X  ''"D , iA  X~~~~~~~~~~~~D 
'J X  m                  |f =b   !                  ; t            r /                     U r   - i-    X    /~~~~~~~~~~~j- 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0"S t'H 0 :
\tOToblson'~--  / I ,  ,,<  ;gT   '-   \;?$'  )    =       "  'CENTRAL VISAYAS REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
<;/a n d u n    C &<RmMentXi       -    >       -        ~~BADIAN-ALEGRIA, 1PIL RIVER, SIQUIJOR-MARIA WATERSHEDS
s q i ;ru 'S91;S<t  \'t 4*   AoK(Sb  i    > 4||*^''' r   a                               Eyisr......... .....d
iD' . -'r. 0  B ' . t i .     ,     <      qtilo:nS   s>z>6aXSp:t>~~~~~~~........... E--~  ads - rry- n,
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d p.p.r !', '.d~ ff.-g>  ~  Mncp---tie   
& 2iE t 0 i  F 5 t u X c:v y szq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....                   -       '.- Int bounamqyl s( r






IBRRD 17033
/                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAYAWAN RIVER                                                      ',y-                            AYUNGON-BINDOY-WMRH18
/  ~~~~~~~  ->7Th ~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPiNES                                                                MRHt~
~~.  tb             - ~~~~~~~ /2 ~~CENTRAL VISAYAS
5&5O~4'  ~        /              REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/   <NLoxuhTi~oonOlbAYUJNGON-BINDOY,
L                                                                                                         A.-~~~~Nbhn             BAYAWAN RIVER WATERSHEDS
I                     ~~~~~~~Project budre
7  MxasIjmO      -'       >       * A9q~~~~      ~      ~~ngon       Existing national roads
A  ---->~~~~~~-i  "                                             .                    (JondoWmo:sn            Sumenius tys;oxois                -                     Existing barangoy roads~~~~~~~~~~......... xitin  baargy rad
A                                                                                     I                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- ~~~~~~~G--Roads proposed for improvements
K  /                                                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Proposed basangay roads
C;                                 /                                       >3          .11    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~--~~Ml-lRivers or creeks
-.  /  2                                                                     Optuenutee                 ~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Municipalities
,,..~~~~~~..,  N         Mobut~~~~~~~~~~~359C,.  j    ~~~~~~~~~''2                       Tixub                                0      Barangays~~~~~~~~~~0 Baanay
N  vNi<     7                      7   \~~~~~~~~~~~  ;  N                                        I                                                            -..-'..--. Municipal oovndarixs~~~~~~~~~~~~~Muncialboudaie
KuIu,ub'1{>.  ~u           Q~-u7-                                                                                                         .......-  Provnicial boundaries
0
f                                                 C    ~~                                       I\                                 (7                 Couljso                                           --     - International....boundaries,
unouon~~~~~~~~~~~a   '{                  '2                    '2                    3. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BeTdoy
'1            '5~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ongka.
p  '.                                                                               '2            tIlTS   m              ,rCRIA 3                                          0    2    4    u    8    IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z    2 4    8 1
~~~,,  S                                                                                             '                   I       S                                                              ___-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  _ _ __#4 ,    'E
*o~~u~xu~?xs      Soybean    2~'   b                                                                                                                                                                                      2x
IDA               -
5osuoe  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v1
MLSCOvoxC'  Liumovunt * ut'r                                   umuvausuu,n,ou,ovurr,ou,evnnsssxnun>.>.onn,uo>nveo- s



