OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 2360 PH
DCUNIE NTS
Loan Agreement
(Central Visayas Regional Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2360 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              ,1984, between
REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES (herein    er called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTR    TION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions   Applicable  to Loan   and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Central Visayas" means Region VII of the Republic of
the Philippines consisting of the Provinces of Bohol, Cebu,
Negros Oriental and Siquijor, and other islands as established
and existing under Presidential Decree No. 1;
(b)  "Regional Projects Office" means the Central Visayas
Regional  Projects  Office  as established and    existing  under
Executive Order No. 907 dated September 10, 1983;
(c)  "Project Preparation Advances" means:
(i) the project preparation advance granted by the
Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated March 24, 1981 and April 24, 1981
between the Borrower and the Bank, as amended; and
(ii) the project preparation advance granted by the
Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated August 5, 1982 and December 30, 1982
between the Borrower and the Bank, as amended: and


﻿- 2 -
(d) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million six hundred thousand dollars ($25,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Porrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required  for  the  Project  described   in  Schedule 2   to  this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a special account in the
Central Bank of the Philippines on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 6 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective DaL, , the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to repay the principal amounts of the
Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amounts of the Project Preparation
Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to sixty-three thousand eight hundred forty dollars
($63,840).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of thi6 Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means:  (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the


﻿Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part B (4) of the
Project through its National Economic and Development Authority,
and the remainder of the Project through the Regional Projects
Office with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower   shall  cause  all  goods   and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the action program
outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement to be completed by the
dates set forth therein.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Regional Projects
Office to be maintained, with powers, resources and staff satis-
factory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The for-going undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-


﻿- 7 -
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, with respect to the Proj-
ect, cause the Regional Projects Office to:
(a) maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, financial condition, resources and expenditures of
the Regional Projects Jifice, the Ministries or Agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and the Central Visayas Regional Office of such
Ministries or Agencies, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure;
(b) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure, and to enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine such records;
(c) have its accounts and financial statements (state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank;
(d) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors: (A) on the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and (B) in respect
of the expendit-ures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made avail-
able to it and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of


﻿-8-
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and
(e) furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
ing said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the facilities con-
structed, and the goods provided under the Project to be operated
and maintained in accordance with appropriate administrative,
fianancial and agricultural practices and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) a Project Manager with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, shall be in place; and
(b) the Special Account has seen opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date         !F, /fey, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section       of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Se tion 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             7550 CBP-PH
Manila                             40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                7,500,000        80%
(2) Equipment,                 6s500,000        100% of foreign
vehicles, inputs,                          expenditures,
materials and                               100% of local
livestock                                  expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants' ser-          6,900,000        100% of foreign
vices and overseas                         expenditures and
training                                   80% of local
expenditures
(4) Initial deposit            2,000,000        Amount due under
in Special Account                         Section 2.02 (b)
to prefinance items                        of this Agreement
under Categories
(1), (2) and (3)
(5) Refunding of               1,100,000        Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (c)
tion Advances                              of this Agreement
(6) Fee                           63,840        Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                1,536,160
TOTAL          25,600,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated  shortfall, proceeds    of  the  Loan  which   are  then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 13 -
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to develop the
Central Visayas, and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Watershed Management
(1) Upland Agriculture
(a) introduction of farm systems to control soil erosion,
increase soil water retention, improve soil fertility, intensify
land use, and increase crop and livestock production; and
(b) establishment of nurseries.
(2) Social Forestry
(a) forest stand improvement; and
(b) reforestation.
(3) Nearshore Fisheries
(a) establishment of artificial reefs;
(b) replanting of mangroves; and
(c) establishment of coral reef sanctuaries.
(4) Infrastructure
(a) construction of barangay roads;
(b) improvement of existing roads; and
(c) grading of trails.
Part B:   Support Services
(1) Institutional Strengthening
(a) strengthening of the Central Visayas Regional Office of
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Central Visayas Regional Office


﻿- 15 -
of the Bureau of Forest Development, the Central Visayas Regional
Office of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, the
Regional Projects Office, and the Provincial Eagineering Offices;
and
(b) establishment of management units.
(2) Training and Technical Assistance
(a) improvement capabilities of staff, farmers and fisher-
men; and
(b) strengthening of training facilities.
(3) Research
Research in support of activities related to Part A herein-
above.
(4) Project Preparation
Preparation of Regional projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1989
through   August 1, 2003                     855,000
On February 1, 2004                               805,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment ultiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                     0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Construction equipment and vehicles shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For construction equipment and vehicles to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding, in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general pro-
curement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any construction equipment and vehicles remain to be procured on
the basis of international comdpetitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of construction equipment and vehicles to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall
be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of eatry)
price for the imported construction equipment and vehicles, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other construction
equipment and vehicles, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties
and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the construction equipment
and vehicles shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of
the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of the construction equipment
and vehicles to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of construction equipment and vehicles in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, construction equipment and vehicles manufactured in the
Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of construc-
tion equipment and vehicles shall clearly indicate any preference
which will be granted, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following
methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation and
comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering construction equipment and
vehicles manufactured in the Philippines if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufactur-
ing  cost   of  such  construction  equipment   and
vehicles includes a value added in the Philippines
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other construction
equipment and vehicles.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the construction equipment and
vehicles. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from
group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 20 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
construction equipment and vehicles offered in each group C bid,
for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal
to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of
the construction equipment and vehicles offered in such group C
bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such construction
equipment and vehicles if said customs duties and taxes exceed
15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further comparison
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the
bid from Group C which as a result of the comparison under para-
graph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, contracts for
civil works, including those for the construction of buildings
and barangay roads, and grading of trails, shall be awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Works on improvement of roads, watershed rehabilita-
tion, reforestation, construction of artificial reefs, and near-
shore fisheries may be carried out under force account, provided
that works so carried out shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $500,000.
2.   (a) Goods (except for construction equipment and vehicles)
may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Contracts for goods (except construction equipment and
vehicles) costing less than the equivalent of $10,000 each, may
be procured after solicitation of quotations from at least three
independent suppliers in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank, provided that such goods so procured shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $150,000.
(c) Livestock shall be procured through local ranchers in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 21 -
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 22 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Action Program
1.   Appointment not later than May 31, 1984, of a full-time
financial controller in the Regional Projects Office with quali-
fications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   (a) Establishment not later than June 30, 1984, of site
management units in each of the sites under Part A (1) of the
Project, with powers, resources and staff satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) Appointment not later than June 30, 1984, of a
full-time manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank, for each of the site management units under Part A
(1) of the Project.
3.   (a) Establishment not later than June 30, 1984, of sub-site
management units in each of the sites under Part A (3) of the
Project, with powers, resources and staff satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) Appointment not later than June 30, 1984, of a
full-time deputy manager with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, for each of the sub-site management
units under Part A (3) of the Project.
4.   (a) Designate not later than June 30, 1984, the Ayungon -
Bindoy site for Part A (2) of the Project.
(b) Establishment not later than June 30, 1984, of a site
management unit under Part A (2) of the Project, with powers,
resources and staff satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) Appointment not later than June 30, 1984, of a full-
time manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank, for the site management unit under Part A (2) of the
Project.
(d) Designate not later than June 30, 1984, the Central
Visayas Regional Office of the Bureau of Forest Development to
provide support services under Part A (2) of the Project in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 24 -
(e) Designate or appoint not later than June 30, 1984,
staff with qualifications and in numbers satisfactory to the
Bank, for the provision of support services under Part A (2) of
the Project.
5.   (a) Designate not later than June 30, 1984, the Central
Visayas Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture to provide
support services under Part A (1) of the Project in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Designate or appoint not later than June 30, 1984,
staff with qualifications and in numbers satisfactory to the
Bank, for the provision of support services under Part A (1) of
the Project.
6.   (a) Designate not later than June 30, 1984, the Central
Visayas Regional Office of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources to provide support services under Part A (3) of the
Project in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) Designate or appoint not later than June 30, 1984,
staff with qualifications and in numbers satisfactory to the
Bank, for the provision of support services under Part A (3) of
the Project.
7.   (a) Designate not later than June 30, 1984, the Provincial
Engineers Office in Bohol, Cebu, Negros Oriental and Siquijor to
implement Part A (4) of the Project, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Designate or appoint not later than June 30, 1984,
staff with qualifications and in numbers satisfactory to the
Bank, for the implementation of Part A (4) of the Project.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and (3) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (4) and to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the
initial deposit. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each
such deposit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Categories (1),
(2) and (3), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 26 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Bank into the Special Account after the initial
deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Bank (a) when the Bank shall have determined at any time that
all further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b) unless otherwise
agreed by the Bank, when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to Categories (1), (2) and (3) for the Project, minus
the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Bank and of any special commitment entered into by the Bank pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount
of the initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan allocated to Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,


﻿- 27 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and aTxed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of     6   198 -.
FOR SECRETARY


