                                                                                                        94118
Serbia: Sustainable Farming                                                                           April 17, 2012


 




    Better Agricultural Practices in Serbia for a Cleaner Danube River


Synopsis
Using funding from the Global Environment Fund (GEF) and World Bank expertise on nutrient
reduction and European Union (EU) environmental regulations, Serbia has begun reducing
nutrient pollution from agricultural practices in the Danube and its tributaries. Farms that
implemented cost-effective ways of reducing nutrient runoff by properly managing animal waste
and recycling it as fertilizer between 2008 and 2011 reduced annual nitrogen discharge by 44
percent and phosphorus by 100 percent, while also lowering the cost of farming.




Challenge                                           MULTIMEDIA
In the late 1990s, basin-wide water quality
models ranked Serbia and Montenegro (SAM)
third in nitrogen pollution levels and second in
phosphorus pollution among the 13 Danube
riparian countries. The livestock sector was one
of the largest sources of water pollution in
Serbia’s part of the Danube/Black Sea Basin.
Large pig and cattle farms in Vojvodina and
central Serbia dumped liquid waste in lagoons,
from where it seeped into groundwater. Manure
storage practice was inadequate and farmers
were usually unaware of its harmful                 MORE
environmental impact. Slaughterhouses typically
                                                      Slideshow:  Sustainable Farming in Serbia for
collected and transported animal waste for            a Cleaner Danube River
disposal in the municipal waste water system or
landfill lagoons, often without any treatment.
In 2004 agriculture was 25 percent of Serbia’s
GDP and 26 percent of exports, making it the largest sector        More Results
of the economy. The Government was seeking a
development partner to help strengthen environmental
management and restructure this sector to be more
responsive to EU requirements for increased exports.  
                                                                   100%
Approach                                                           of phosphorus and 44% of
                                                                   nitrogen is reduced annually in
The project was designed to strengthen Serbia’s policy             nutrient pollution flow from
framework regulating nutrient runoff and discharge from            beneficiary farms
livestock farms and slaughterhouses in line with the EU
Nitrate Directive. Since mainly international technical


                                                                    58%
assistance and assistance with institutional capacity building
were available at that time, the project envisaged
investments in the reduction of agricultural pollution through
awarding grants for nutrient control to selected medium and         of farmers in project areas were
                                                                    aware of environmental issues
large farms and slaughterhouses, with the aim of introducing        in agriculture according to a
cost-effective methods for reducing nutrient runoff. In 2004        July 2010 beneficiary survey
SAM ratified the Convention on Cooperation for the
Protection and Sustainable Use of the Danube River
(Danube Convention 1994). The project was implemented
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
under the World Bank-led GEF Black Sea and Danube
Strategic Partnership on Nutrient Reduction, which, led by           Serbia Danube River
the World Bank had already supported a number of other               Enterprise Pollution
                                                                     Reduction Project (2005-2011)
nutrient pollution control projects in the region, most of them
involving harmonization with EU environmental laws.                  Project Facebook page


Results
Investment in Nutrient Reduction

       From 2006 to 2011, storage facilities and equipment for better animal waste
       management were financed in 105 farms, seven agricultural schools, three
       slaughterhouses and meat processing plants, and two rendering plants.

       The annual reduction in nutrient pollution flow from project-beneficiary farms is
       estimated to be 44 percent for nitrogen and 100 percent for phosphorus.

       At least 65% of beneficiary farms and slaughterhouses were implementing nutrient
       reduction plans properly two years after being awarded the sub-grant

       Over 650 professionals, including 180 agricultural advisors, were trained between 2006
       and 2011. Seven agricultural schools throughout Serbia included good manure
       management practices into their curriculum to train future generations of farmers. 

Support to Policy and Regulatory Reform

       The Strategy and Action Plan for implementation of the EU Nitrate Directive was
       finalized by early 2011.

       A “Code on Good Agricultural Practices” was developed and adopted by the Ministry of
       Agriculture and widely distributed in March 2011.

Water and Soil Quality, Public Awareness, and a Replication Strategy

       Laboratory equipment to measure the long-term impact of nutrient reduction on water
       quality was installed at the Hydro-Meteorological Institute.

       Between 2006 and 2011, activities to raise awareness among the general population
       and farmers and to stimulate investment were expanded. According to a July 2010
       beneficiary survey, 58 percent of farmers in project areas were aware of environmental
       issues in agriculture.

       A study was prepared to assist Serbia with the implementation of the EU Nitrate
       Directive and tap into pre-accession funds for agriculture (IPARD) once the country
       gains EU candidate status.



Bank Contribution
The cost of the project was US$20.73 million. Of this total, $18.16 million was spent on nutrient
reduction investments, $0.50 million on support for regulatory reform and capacity, $0.67 million
on monitoring water and soil quality, raising public awareness, and developing a replication
strategy, and $1.40 million on project management and impact monitoring.

Partners
The project benefitted from a strong partnership between Serbia’s Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Water Management, the World Bank, and the Swedish International Development
Cooperation Agency (SIDA), which developed during the implementation stage. The project
was financed under the World Bank GEF Investment Fund for Nutrient Reduction in the
Danube and Black Sea Basin. The GEF contributed $8.62 million, the Government of Sweden
$5.46 million, beneficiary enterprises $5.92 million, the Government of Serbia $0.57million, and
the European Commission $0.13 million.

Moving Forward
Implementation of the EU Nitrate Directive will be important for Serbia’s EU integration and will
require considerable investments, including IPARD funds once available. Budget support may
be needed to sustain long-term water and soil quality monitoring in intervention areas. Project
outcomes—including the demonstrated cost-effective ways to reduce nutrient runoff and the
strengthened capacity of agricultural advisors and farmers to prepare and implement Nutrient
Management Plans and prepare to implement the Nitrate Directive—can be replicated in other
parts of Serbia. This can be seen in the continued investment interest in environmentally
sustainable agriculture, including in new areas such as biogas production, even after the
project closed. The effective implementation of the Nitrate Directive can also have important
benefits for public health through improvement in air quality and moderating the effects of
climate change, since the poor management of animal manure is also linked to increased
emissions of ammonia, methane, and nitrous oxide.

Beneficiaries
The Obradovic family owns a farm with 20 cows and 13 hectares of land on which they grow
corn and barley. They invested €5,000, matched with a €10,000 grant, to buy a manure
spreader, loader, and slurry tanker. Dejan Obradovic: “This project changed my life. I loaded
manure myself onto a tractor trailer before. My back used to hurt! We paid people to help
spread the manure in the field. Now I can spread 260 tons on my own in a couple of days.
Manure is more evenly distributed and we have halved the use of fertilizer, lowering further the
cost of farming.”
