                                                                                                              99815
Sustainable Farming in Serbia for a Cleaner Danube River
Mirjana Popovic, Public Information Assistant in the Belgrade
Office, offers this story.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
Unlike many farmers in Serbia, 34-year old Ivan Milović is
well aware that better management of animal waste benefits
the land, so he is willing to invest in it.

Before Ivan started to manage the manure his cattle produce
on his farm in northwest Serbia, surplus ran off, contaminating
groundwater that flows into the Danube, and polluting the
river. When excessive amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus
from livestock farms run into the Danube and its tributaries,
the water becomes polluted. It smells and it is not advisable to   Related Links
drink it or bathe in it. Runoff from livestock waste is
responsible for the majority of Serbia's part in polluting the     The World Bank in Serbia
Danube and the Black Sea.                                          Serbia Danube River Enterprise
                                                                   Pollution Reduction Project
Ivan and his brother Vladimir own a 180-hectare farm with
                                                                   Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry
160 dairy cows. They grow corn, wheat, soybeans and                and Water Management
sunflowers. The brothers invested 160,000 Euros of grant
                                                                   Global Environment Facility (GEF)
money and their own funds to build an underground tank and
a large concrete platform on which they pile the manure so it      Swedish International Development
doesn't leach into the ground. They also bought a manure           Cooperation Agency (SIDA)
mixer and spreader to use the waste as fertilizer once the
harmful nitrates it contains have been neutralized.

"We expect a full return on our investment in 8-10 years. Farming is a lot of hard work, and the
economic crisis does not help. But without this project I could not get the working conditions and
equipment we now have, perhaps ever," says Ivan.

                         Ivan is one of 105 farm owners in Serbia's Danube Basin with lots of livestock
                         and resulting pollution—who have invested in good manure management. He,
                         and other farmers were able to run cleaner farms thanks to the World Bank-
                         supported Serbia Danube River Enterprise Pollution Reduction Project,
                         implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture. The project's goal is to reduce the
                         basin's considerable levels of pollution resulting from improper discharge of
                         manure and slurry from cattle and pig farms, and animal waste from
                         slaughterhouses and rendering plants. These methods are not compliant with
Ivan Milovic
                         European Union standards.

Each of the participating farms received a grant of up to 140,000 Euros through a competitive process.
They had to match it with at least a 30% investment. The project got US$9 million from the Global
Environment Facility (GEF)/World Bank Investment Fund for Nutrient Reduction in the Black
Sea/Danube Basin and US$5.5 million from the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
(SIDA). Participating farmers contributed US$5.2 million.

Most manure management uses simple, inexpensive technology, but the investment of time and money
has to make sense to farmers if they are to spend their own money.

The Obradovićshas grow corn, alfalfa and barley and raise 20 dairy cows on their 13 hectare farm. The
family invested 5,000 Euros, matched with a 10,000 Euro grant, to buy a manure spreader, loader and a
slurry tanker.

                         "This project changed my life. I loaded manure myself onto a tractor trailer
                         before. Imagine how my back used to hurt! We used to pay people to help me
                         spread this manure in the field," says Dejan Obradović. ''Now I can collect and
                         spread 260 tons of manure on my own within a couple of days. Manure is more
                         evenly distributed in the field and we have halved the use of fertilizer, lowering
                        further the cost of farming."

                        The 105 farms with new manure management practices have significantly
Dejan Obradovic         reduced how much they pollute the soil and water—175 tons of nitrogen
                        compounds a year.

Through the project, many farmers also developed fertilizer management plans with assistance from
local advisory teams. Farmer Field Days were organized so farmers could swap experiences. Agriculture
specialists and farmers devised a Code of Good Agricultural Practices and made the manual available
to farmers in print and video. And environmentally friendly farming practices are being taught at seven
agricultural schools.

Another big source of nutrient pollution is the agro-industry. Three slaughterhouses and two rendering
plants received grants to separate, transport, and treat animal waste.

Farmers and enterprises in Serbia are interested in meeting domestic and EU environmental standards
in order to export their products. Yet they need to increase productivity. At a time when Serbia's
development needs to shift from mainly consumption-led growth to a more export-led one, better
agricultural practices compliant with EU environmental standards can lead to both higher productivity
and more exports. And it can keep the Danube's waters cleaner!
