Document of             FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2158b-BR
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
February 15, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,
_                           _            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency amounts are expressed in Brazilian
Cruzeiros (Cr$) and US Dollars (US$)
January 21, 1980
US$1.00 = Cr$ 43.69
Cr$ 1.00 = US$0.022
US$1,000,000 = Cr$ 43,690,000
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABDE       Associacao Brasileira dos Bancos de Desenvolvimento
(Brazilian Association of Development Banks)
BADESP     Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo
(Sao Paulo State Development Bank)
BNDE       Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
(National Economic Development Bank)
BNH        Banco Nacional de Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
BOD        Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CDE        Conselho de Desenvolvimento Economico
(Economic Development Council)
CDI        Conselho de Desenvolvimento Industrial
(Industrial Development Council)
CETESB     Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental
(State Environmental Protection Agency)
CICPAA     Comissao Inter-Municipal de Controle de Poluicao das Aguas e do Ar
(Inter-Municipal Air and Water Pollution Control Commission)
Committee The Special State Pollution Control Fund's Steering Committee
DAEE       Department of Water and Energy
EMPLASA    Empresa Metropolitana de Planejamento da Grande Sao Paulo
(Metropolitan Planning Agency)
FESB       Fundo Estadual de Saneamento Basico
(Basic Sanitation State Fund)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS (Continued)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GSPA       Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area
ORTN       National Treasury Adjustable Bond
PLANASA    Plano Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan)
PROCOP     Project Account in FUMEFI
SABESP     Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
(State Water Supply Company)
SANEGRAN   Projeto de Esgotos Sanitarios da Regiao Metropolitana
de Sao Paulo - Plano Diretor
(Sewage Collection and Treatment Master Plan for the
Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area)
SEMA       Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente
(Special Environmental Protection Secretariat)
SMI        Small and Medium Scale Industry
SOMA       Secretaria de Obras Publicas e do Meio Ambiente
(State Secretariat of Public Works and the Environment)
SUSAM      Superintendencia de Saneamento Ambiental
(Superintendency of Environmental Sanitation)
WHO        World Health Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE REGIONAL SETTING
A*  Background ............... 6....0O-............................ 1
B.  The State of Sao Paulo and the Greater Sao Paulo Area ..    I
Past Economic Development ... o ................o..... ..  I
Urban and Demographic Development .....................  1
The  State  Economy   . o. ...0. ..........   ..  .  . .  . . . . . . . . ..  . . .  .  4
II.  ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION IN THE GSPA
A.  The Urban and Environmental Problem   ....................    5
B.  Air Pollution in the GSPA o.oo............... ... ...       5
Nature and Sources of Air Pollution .... .................  5
Air  Quality    - -ooo .................... o........... o ..............   7
C.  The Consequences of Deteriorating Air Quality ..........    7
D.  Water Pollution in the GSPA ... -........................   8
River System and Water Resources ...--...... ...         8
Water  Quality  .... ....................................  ....oo .......  10
The Consequences of Deteriorating Water Quality   ......   10
III. POLLUTION CONTROL STRATEGIES AND PROGRAMS IN THE GSPA
A.  Pollution Control Legislation ............... .  .....    12
Federal Legislation . .........   - -. .. . . . . . .... . . . . . . .    12
Sao Paulo State Legislation ........ .................    13
B.  Pollution Control Objectives and Alternatives    ..........   14
Objectives  ....... o.....  ..... ....o........- -....................  14
Alternative Approaches to Industrial Pollution Control   15
C.  Water Pollution Control Strategies and Programs o-o-    16
Master Plan for Sewage Collection and Treatment         16
Industrial Effluents Programo ......       ....         18
D.  Air Pollution Control Strategies and Programs .ooo.......  19
,/  Carbon  Monoxide   . .......   . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .   .  21
Sulfur  Dioxide  o- ...............................  ....... 0 .0..  21
Toxic heavy metals ........ .-.-.-.-.......... .        21
Particulate matter ......   .............      o.o..o.   22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in February/March, 1978 and of a post-appraisal mission in September/
October, 1979. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. A. Cracco, R. Buhler,
L. Chang, J. Parker, and X. Simon of the Bank and Messrs. W. Castagnino and
H. Alvarez from the Pan American Health Organization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Paze No.
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.     Project  Origin  and Objectives  ..............                      o............      23
B.     Project  Size  and Financing                  .............................             23
C.     Channeling  and  Terms  of  the  Bank  Loan  ......                 .............       26
D.     Project  Coordination  . ...  *              ..............................             26
E.     Loan  Components  and  Characteristics                     ....................         28
Pollution  Control  Financing                  ..........................            28
Technical  Assistance   ******...*                      *...*.................       30
F.     Subproject  Eligibility  Criteria                          ........................     31
G.     Procurement  and Disbursement  ...                   ... .................              32
Procurement  ...............o.o .................... ooo....                         32
Disbursement  ............................ 0 - .00.0 ...........                     33
H.     Project  Monitoring  .......... .. . ..   ....................so.     ...........    33
V.   PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
A.    BADESP  ...............................................                        ....      34
Organization  ............................. ................                         34
Establishment  and Objectives  ....                   ...................         34
Ownership  and Relations  with  the  State Government   ..    34
Policy  and Decision Making  Councils  ......... .                   ......    35
Management  and  Staff  .......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .  35
Organization  Structure  .... ... .. . . . . . . . . .   ......   ....... ** .. .    35
Operational  Procedures  and Practices  ........ .......... .                        36
appraisal  ..................  ....               o0....0................. . 0.....  36
Supervision  ....o ...................................... .00.....                36
Procurement  and Disbursement                         .......................     36
Internal  and  External  Audit  ..........                    ..............      36
Resources  ......... o....o...................................                       37
Past Operations  .......... ... o.................................                   37
Financial  Position  and Results  .o.........                   ..............       37
Quality  of  Portfolio  and Provisions  for Losses                       .....    37
Financial  Structure  ...... ........ .  .... . . ... ...   .....                 38
Profitability  .......... ...........  ..... ..o..... ...............             38
B.    CETESB  so................  ...              *..o........      o.........................  38
Organization  ........... o............                o.................... .... ..  38
Establishment  and Objectives  .......................    38
Organization,  Management  and  Staff  ............... .            .    .     .     39
Pollution  Control  Activities  .........................                            40
C.    SABESP  ........*.**..*.***********.....................                                 41
Organization  ............ .......  ......                   0"Oo..........0. 460......  41
Establishment  and Objectives  ..........                     ........*....       41
Ownership  and Administrative  Council  .....                       ..........    41
Organization Management  and  Staff  ......... ........ .    41



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Project Benefits .....          ............................. ...    42
B.   Project Risks  .*..*           ....................................    43
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   Agreements Reached        .......................... ........ ..    44
B.   Recommendations ...... 0..........     ............. ...  .*... ..    47



LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Proposed Water Pretreatment Strategy for the GSPA
2. Examples of Assistance Provided by OECD Member Countries for
Environmental Pollution Control
3. Standard Subproject Appraisal Format
4. Standard Format for Research Proposals
5. Supporting Tables, Charts and Maps
T-1   Characteristics of the Industrial Sector by Region and State -
Industrial Census of 1960 and 1970
T-2   Regional Distribution of Investments Approved by the Industrial
Development Council (1969-72)
T-3   Sao Paulo Industrial Sector - Number of Industrial Enterprises
and Employees - Period 1950-1970
T-4   Distribution of the Net Domestic Product by Sector of Origin
within the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA) (1950-70)
T-5   Distribution of the Industrial Labor Force within the State of
Sao Paulo and the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA)
(1950-70)
T-6   Distribution of Industrial Value Added in the Greater Sao Paulo
Metropolitan Area (GSPA) (1950-70)
T-7   Municipal Distribution of the Industrial Labor Force within the
Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA) (1950-70)
T-8   Industry in the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA).
Number of Industrial Enterprises and Employees - Industrial
Census of 1970
T-9   The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Distribution of Air
Pollutants by Source of Emission (1977 Estimates)
T-10   The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Distribution of Air
Pollutant Emissions from Industrial Processes and Fuel Combustion
by Type of Activity (1977 Estimates)
T-11   The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Distribution of Air
Pollutant Emissions from Industrial Processes and Stationary Fuel
Combustion by Municipality (1977 Estimates)
T-12   The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Distribution of Air
Pollutant Emissions by Type of Motor Vehicles (1977 Estimates)



LIST OF ANNEXES (Continued)
T-13   The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Number of Times that the
State Air Quality Standards and Emergency Pollution Levels were
Exceeded in the GSPA in 1976
T-14   Overall Air Quality in the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area
in 1976
T-15   Overall Air Quality in the City of Sao Paulo during 1976
T-16   Air Quality Standards in the State of Sao Paulo
T-17   Estimates of Pollution Loads and Deterioration of Water Courses
in the Greater Sao Paulo Area (1957-2000)
T-18   Infant Mortality in the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area and
the World
T-19   BADESP - Audited Comparative Balance Sheets and Income Statements
(1973-77)
T-20   BADESP - Audited Comparative Balance Sheets (1978 - mid-1979)
T-21   BADESP - Audited Comparative Income Statements (1978 - mid-1979)
T-22   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Bank Loan
C-1    Organization Chart of BADESP
C-2    Organization Chart of CETESB
C-3    Organization Chart of SABESP
6.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map 1  Location of the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area within
Brazil and South America
Map 2  The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Municipalities and
Subregions
Map 3  Greater Sao Paulo Water Resources and Sewage Collection and
Treatment System
Map 4  The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Present and Future
Water Resources
Map 5  The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Behavior of Water
Resources to Pollution Loads



I. THE REGIONAL SETTING
A. Background
1.01      Since the end of World War II Brazil has experienced a profound
socio-economic transformation from a predominantly agricultural export
economy into an integrated industrial society. Reflecting this change,
the industrial sector's share in GDP grew from 17% in 1945 to 38% in 1977,
its contribution to the growth of the net domestic product increased from
26 to 39% and the industrial labor force rose from 7 to 11% of the economically
active population.
1.02      Brazil's industrialization coincided with a period of rapid popula-
tion growth and contributed to accelerated urban migration and development.
Between 1940-77 the country's total population rose from 41 million to 113
million, of which 62% were urban by 1977 compared with only 25% in 1940.
Regional and sub-regional specialization increased and industrial development
became concentrated around the major urban centers, particularly in the State
of Sao Paulo and its capital city, which, from the early days of industrial
development, has shown greater economic potential than other regions and urban
areas.
B.   The State of Sao Paulo and the Greater Sao Paulo Area (GSPA)
1.03      Past economic development.  The industrialization of Sao Paulo began
in the late 1880s as a by-product of the expanding coffee export economy. By
the early 1900s substantial capacity for the production of light manufactured
goods such as food, textiles, footwear and clothing had been created; this
process was consolidated and greatly speeded up during World War I, when the
interruption of manufactured imports led to the establishment of almost
6,000 factories. After a relative setback in the 1920s, the process of
greater and more diversified production for the domestic market received a
major impetus during the Great Depression decade of the 1930s, when the fall
in export earnings forced the country to curtail imports severely. It was
the active shortage of imports during World War II, however, which made
industry a leading sector of Sao Paulo's economy and irrevocably altered the
rural-urban relationships within the state. From textiles and food products, the
Paulista industry proceeded to the intermediate phase of producing industrial
raw materials and capital goods. In the 1960s, finally, it embarked on the
manufacture of durable and non-durable consumer goods and technologically
advanced capital goods, and consolidated its position so as to become the center
of the country's industrial activities.
1.04      Urban and demographic development.  The sustained industrialization
which occurred after the 1930s brought about a polarization and concentration
of economic activities around the state's major cities, particularly those
located in the Baixada Santista (Santos low land) and the Planalto Paulista
(Sao Paulo tableland) regions. By 1970, urbanization had encompassed more
than 80% of the State's population (Table 1-1) and Sao Paulo comprised 32
urban centers with more than 50,000 inhabitants, 18 of them located in pre-
dominantly industrial areas.



-2-
Table 1-1: EMPLOYMENT AND TOTAL POPULATION, URBAN AND RURAL,
SAO PAULO STATE, GREATER SAO PAULO, 1960 AND 1970
libn     Population                 Number of persons emplay;d
Total   L'rban    Rural   Total    Urban   Rural
Sdo Paulo state
1960      12 975 000  8 150 000  4 825 000  4 620 008  2 797764  1 577 740
1970      17771948  14 276 239  3 495 709  6 327 851  5 026 021  1 301 830
Percentage
increase     3.2      5.8   -3.3      3.2      6.0   -1.5
Greater Sdo Paulo
1960      4 747 001  4 014 657  732 344  1 836 816  1 766 744   70 072
1970      8 139 730  7 864 942  274 788  3 037 668  2 975 399   62269
Percentage
increase     5.6      7.0   - 10.3    5.2      5.4    - 1.2
Source: Instituto Brasileiro de Geographia e  Estatistica
(IBGE)
1.05      The rural-urban transformation of the State of Sao Paulo took place
in a compartmentalized and uneven manner. In certain areas and products, the
industrialization process was more dynamic, given the existence of such factors
as reasonably sized local markets serving the coffee economy and its associated
infrastructure investments and/or locational advantages due to well-developed
power supply and transport facilities. As a result, some regions such as
Campinas or the Paraiba Valley have almost reached industrial saturation
while others like Sorocaba and Ribeirao Preto are still capable of accom-
modating new industrial complexes (Maps 1 and 2).
1.06      Lying on the Tropic of Capricorn in the southeast of the state at
some 2,600 feet above sea level, the Greater Sao Paulo metropolitan area
(GSPA)--i.e., the city of Sao Paulo and 36 adjoining municipalities--has played
the central role in the state's rural-urban transformation. Although the city
of Sao Paulo was one of the earliest settlements in the interior of Brazil, it
is a relatively young metropolis. Its rapid and massive growth dates from the
mid-1930s when industrialization in and around the city created a pole of
attraction for labor from the interior of the state and the less developed
regions of the country, particularly the northeast, Parana and Minas Gerais.
The GSPA's population has been growing over the past few decades at an average
annual rate of 5-6%, more than double that of the country as a whole. Between
1935 and the time of the last census in 1970, the GSPA's population grew from
600,000 to 8.1 million inhabitants and according to current estimates it
has now reached the 12 million mark. Containing about half of the state's
and one tenth of the country's population, the GSPA is today one of the most
dynamic and fastest growing metropolitan areas in the world.



-3-
Table 1-2:   POPULATION GROWTH IN BRAZIL AND THE GREATER SAO PAULO
AREA (GSPA) 1940-77
Year           Brazil                  GSPA                 Sao Paulo
Total     Average     Total      Average     Total     Average
Population Annual Growth Population Annual Growth Population Annual Growth
(millions)   Rate (X)   (millions)    Rate (%)   (millions)   Rate tX)
1940      41.1       -           1.6         -         1.3          -
1950      51.9      2.3         2.7         5-4        2.2         5.2
1960      69.7      3.0         4.7         5.9        3.8         5.6
1970      93.4      3.0         8.1         5.5        5.9         4.6
1977*    113.2      1.9         11.3        5.0        7.9         4.3
* Estimated.
Source:  IBGE: Demographic Census 1970
1.07      Internal migration has played a fundamental role in the economic
development and population dynamics of the GSPA. Between 1940-70 it accounted
for the bulk of the region's demographic explosion, although the share of net
migration in total population growth declined steadily from 79% in the 1940s
to 63% in the 1960s. This decrease has been a contributing factor to the
recent decline in the rate of population growth in the GSPA, which is due
primarily to the fact that the capital city itself is approaching the satura-
tion point. As can be seen in Table 1-3 below, migration has shifted recently
to the outlying municipalities.
Table 1-3: SOURCES OF POPULATION GROWTH IN THE GREATER
SAO PAULO AREA (GSPA) 1940-70
GSPA                  Sao Paulo          Other Municipalities
Natural   Net-in    Natural        Net-in       Natural   Net-in
Increase  Migration  Increase  Migration    Increase  Migration
Share of Population
Growth (%)
1940-50             21.0         79.0        24.1       75.9          9.1       90.9
1950-60             34.8         65.2        38.6      '61.4        23.2        76.8
1960-70             37.2         62.8        41.9       58,1        29.3        70.7
Annual Growth
Rates (%)
1940-50              1.4          4.5         1.5        4.1         1.0       6.3
1950-60              2.5          4.2         2.5        3.8         2.1       6.2
1960-70               2.4         3.8         2.1        2.9          3.3       6.8
Source: Cnrpo Executivo da Cran(e Sao Paulo (GEGRAN) - Recursos liurnanos
da Grande S.o Paulo - 1971.



1.08      With industrial and urban congestion expected to worsen further
in Sao Paulo, the slowdown in migration is likely to persist. However,
urban planners anticipate that the GSPA's population will continue to grow
by 0.5-0.7 million p.a. through the year 2,000 when it may reach 21.0 million
with a density of 9,400 inhabitants per square mile compared to 4,800 today.
1.09      The state economy. 1/  Over past decades the State of Sao Paulo's
contribution to the national economy has been impressive (Annex V: Tables 1
to 6). In 1970 it accounted for about 36% of Brazil's net domestic product,
and had only 19% of the country's population. Its agricultural sector provided
almost half the national production of coffee, cotton, sugar, rice and maize
(the country's principal export crops), while its industrial sector, with 31%
of all units of production, employed 48% of the country's industrial labor
force, contributed 49% of the net national industrial product and was respon-
sible for 55% and 58%, respectively, of total industrial production and value
added. In addition, the state accounted for 61% of the annual investments
approved by the Industrial Development Council (Conselho de Desenvolvimiento
Industrial-CDI), and 46% of total investment income (a "proxy" for accumulated
capital stock).  Approximately 44% of the proceeds of all national share
capital and bond issues were for concerns located within the state, with 26 of
the country's 50 largest manufacturing concerns headquartered there.  In 1970,
among the 51,516 industrial enterprises located in the state, industrial con-
centration was most evident in the food products (23% of industrial concerns),
non-metallic minerals (13%), metallurgical (8.5%), apparel and footwear (8%),
furniture (7%), metal working and textile (7%) industries.
1.10      In line with the above indicators, per capita income in the state
was more than twice the national average in 1970. Roughly 40% of the state's
net domestic product originated in the industrial sector compared to 18% in
all other states, while the contribution of agriculture was equal to the 12%
country-wide average. Per capita industrial income was approximately five
and a half times greater on average than in all other regions, thus reflect-
ing the state's high degree of economic specialization.
1.11      The GSPA has been the driving force behind the state's economic
and industrial prosperity (Annex V - Tables 4 to 8). In 1970 it provided
roughly 70% of the state's domestic product, generated 80% of all employment
opportunities, and employed 74% of the industrial manpower. The main stream of
the GSPA's economic activities was the industrial sector, followed by services
and agriculture. Industrial activities contributed about 51% of the GSPA's
net domestic product, and accounted for about 50% and 75%, respectively, of
the state's industrial establishments and industrial value added. Within the
GSPA, industrial and economic activities were predominantly concentrated in
the Sao Paulo municipality although congestion in the city has brought
about a steady decentralization of economic activities towards the outlying
industrial districts. In 1970 the city of Sao Paulo accounted for 76% of the
1/   Analysis of the state economy is based on the latest available industrial
census for 1970. Economic trends have not altered substantially since
then.



- 5 -
GSPA's industrial establishments, 71% of its industrial manpower, and 65% of
its industrial value added. Concentration in the state capital was evident in
almost all industrial subsectors except for nonmetallic mineral products,
food products, chemical products, hides and skins, beverages, transporation
equipment and wood, which showed a lower degree of concentration--with more
than 50% of their workers employed in the other municipalities of the GSPA.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION IN THE GSPA
A.   The Urban and Environmental Problem
2.01      The rapid economic development in the GSPA has given rise to urban
and environmental problems similar to those experienced by most other fast-
growing metropolitan areas around the world. Over the past decade, urban
development in the GSPA has been increasingly hampered by the failure to
expand public services in line with population growth. This problem has been
compounded by two factors: first, with 37 semi-autonomous municipalities, the
state has found it hard to implement rational metropolitan planning and coordi-
nated decision making; and second, the annual federal, state and municipal
budgetary appropriations for the metropolitan area have not kept pace with the
growing demands for basic urban amenities and have not been commensurate with
the gravity of the area's urban and environmental problems.
2.02      The above factors have led to disorderly urbanization, resulting in
the steady deterioration of the living conditions of a broad section of the
population. Social problems within the metropolis have been exacerbated by
housing shortages, overstrained public utility services, inadequate mass
transportation, traffic congestion and lack of recreational areas. A series
of indicators reveal the extent of these problems. In 1978, the GSPA had only
about 4 m2 of green spaces per inhabitant; 54% of its roads were unpaved; 38%
of its dwellings had no sewerage; and only 4.8% of its sewage received primary
treatment.
2.03      Economic growth and urban development have had adverse effects on
the environmental characteristics of the region. Growth in industrial produc-
tion and other economic activities has been accompanied by a parallel increase
in pollution to the point that in some of the GSPA's most densely populated and
industrialized areas the quantity of some effluents and discharges far exceeds
the natural, self-cleansing capacity of the environment. Compounded by the
area's special climatic and topographic conditions (para. 2.11), this ecolo-
gical phenomenon is rapidly spreading through the GSPA, and air and water
pollution in much of the area has reached a level harmful to public health.
B.   Air Pollution in the GSPA
2.04      Nature and source of air pollution.  Due to a number of environmental
pollution studies carried out by the the Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento



-6-
Ambiental (State Environmental Protection Agency - CETESB) in recent years,
the extent and characteristics of the air pollution problem in the GSPA is
today well documented and technically well understood (Annex V: Tables 9
to 15). Based on the latest cadastral survey of sources of air pollution in
the GSPA, CETESB estimates that pollutant emissions in the region currently
amount to 7,203 tons/day. Carbon monoxide is the most important pollutant,
contributing 65% (4,704 tons/day) of total emissions, followed by sulfur
oxides with 13% (924 tons/day), hydrocarbon with 10% (737 tons/day) particulate
matter with 7% (493 tons/day) and nitrogen oxides with 5% (345 tons/day).
2.05      As indicated by the large share of carbon monoxide in total
pollutant emissions, automotive traffic is the single largest source (74%)
of air pollutants in the GSPA. The 1.7 million local vehicles contribute
94% of carbon monoxide emissions, 73% of nitrogen oxides, 72% of hydro-
carbons, 9% of sulfur oxides, and 7% of particulate matter. To curb this
source of air pollution the state authorities have recently introduced man-
datory use of "equalized" gasoline with a 15% alcohol content. Preliminary
data indicate that this measure has led to reductions in motor vehicle related
air pollutants. However, due to the continuing sharp growth (6% p.a.) in the
number of new motor vehicle registrations and the likely increase in average
mileage and fuel consumption per automobile, these improvements are not
expected to continue unless further actions are taken by the state authori-
ties, including mandatory antipollution devices for locally produced vehicles
(para. 3.31).
2.06      The industrial sector, including captive power generation, is the
second most important source (22%) of air pollution in the GSPA, with indus-
trial processes accounting for 65% of particulate matter and 18% of hydro-
carbon emissions. Industrial power generation, through stationary combustion
of fuels with sulfur content as high as 5%, is responsible for 88% of sulfur
oxides, 24% of nitrogen oxides, and 11% of particulate matter pollution
in the region. The metallurgical, non-metallic minerals, chemical, textile
and food industries, which account for about 50% of the 14,200 industrial
polluters in the GSPA, are estimated to be responsible for 80% of air pollutant
emissions by industry. However, industrial particulate matter polluters, who
would be the target of the proposed project, involved only 1,153 enterprises,
of which 284 account for 97.5% of industrial particulate matter pollution in
the GSPA.
2.07      Air pollution in the GSPA also varies regionally depending on
industrial and population concentrations. Of the 37 municipalities in the
GSPA, 9 contribute about 95% of all pollutant emissions. In the municipality
of Sao Paulo, which presents the highest emission rates, industrial activities
discharge daily 170 tons of particulate matter (45% of the total emitted by
industry in the GSPA), 431 tons of sulfur oxides (52%), 87 tons of carbon
monoxides (57%), 39 tons of nitrogen oxides (46%), and 101 tons of hydrocarbons
(72%). Adding to these pollutants those associated with transportation, the
municipality of Sao Paulo emits 60% of all air pollutants in the GSPA.



-7-
2.08      Air quality.  Monitored through a computerized telemetric monitoring
network, air quality in the GSPA is determined on the basis of standards which
the State of Sao Paulo adopted in 1976 (para. 3.07). Covering the major air
pollutants considered hazardous to health by WHO, these standards (Annex V-T16)
specify the average and maximum permissible pollutant concentrations in the
atmosphere at particular points in time and spell out the pollutant concentra-
tions for environmental "attention," "alert" and "emergency" to ensure correc-
tive actions during periods of acute air pollution.
2.09      Most of the above air quality standards, however, are periodically
exceeded for extended periods of time, particularly in the heavily industrial-
ized and populated districts (Annex V, Tables 13 to 15). In 1978 "attention"
levels occurred for carbon monoxide on 121 occasions as compared to 51 for
particulate matter and sulfur dioxide. The daily air quality standards were
exceeded 299 times for carbon monoxide, and 121 times and 17 times, respec-
tively, for particulate matter and sulfur dioxide. For these pollutants,
the highest concentration recorded in 1978 surpassed the maximum daily air
quality standard by 282%, 190%, and 219%, respectively. The metropolitan
population was exposed to daily average levels of sulfur dioxide-particulate
matter and carbon monoxide concentrations (143 g/m3, 115 g/m3, and 13,2
p.p.m.) that increase the frequency and severity of respiratory diseases
and provide other adverse health effects (para. 2.12).
2.11      These severe air pollution levels, attributable primarily to
industries and road transportation, are further compounded by GSPA's peculiar
atmospheric and climatic characteristics. Due to frequent light winds (about
two thirds of the local winds do not exceed 3 m/sec) in the GSPA, air stagna-
tion is common. Frequent temperature inversions hold the polluted air
close to the ground and thus produce heavy pollutant concentrations which,
combined with extended periods of air stagnation, lead to episodes of acute
air pollution. Given the frequency pattern of these phenomena, the assimi-
lation capacity of the atmosphere in the GSPA is highest in the summer
(December-March) and is lowest in winter (June-September).
C.   The Consequences of Deteriorating Air Quality
2.12      As a result of human fatalities due to air pollution in various
countries over the past few decades, the connection between air quality and
diseases such as bronchitis, asthma, lung cancer and emphysema has been
receiving increasing attention. The medical evidence accumulated world wide
leaves little doubt that widespread adverse human health effects are associated
with poor air quality. In Brazil, studies have shown that there is a demons-
strable effect of sulfur dioxide and particulate matter in the ambient
atmosphere on the health of the exposed population, and that the degree of



-8-
that effect is related to the degree and duration of pollution. 1/ A known
effect of sulfur dioxide is irritation of the respiratory system. This
effect has been repeatedly observed in the GSPA where episodes of thermal
inversions involving high concentrations of sulfur dioxide and particulate
matter have been associated with increases in morbidity and mortality. 2/ In
addition, local medical and hospital records evidence increased frequency and
severity of respiratory symptoms and pulmonary complications, along with a
similar increase of cardiovascular problems, during periods of heavy air
pollution. Chronic bronchitis, bronchiestasis, pneumonitis, pneumonia, asthma
and emphysema are prevalent in the GSPA's population--particularly among the
elderly and children--due to repeated exposure to heavy concentrations of
air pollutants. Consequently, the GSPA is the only metropolitan area in
Brazil where respiratory and cardiovascular rank second to infectious and
contagious diseases to explain mortality rates.
2.13      Air pollution also affects the human body in other ways.  High
levels of carbon monoxide, for example, slow up the response time of the
nervous system and reduce coordination ability and alertness, and thereby
contribute to increases in the number of accidents and, among other things,
result in loss of efficiency and abnormally high absenteeism among workers.
2.14      Air pollution is also responsible for extensive damage to property.
The emission of particulate matter, for example, soils clothes, automobiles,
homes and buildings. Blackened facades of buildings in the GSPA are
obvious testimony to particulate, hydrocarbon, and sulfur pollutants. Air
pollutants corrode, crack and weaken materials. Sulfur dioxide emissions, in
particular, result in widespread property damage.
2.15      In addition to causing specific health, safety and property effects,
air pollution in the GSPA has significant general amenity costs, as perceived
by GSPA's population, 3/ such as foul odors, soot-dirtied buildings, and the
poor visibility.
D.   Water Pollution in the GSPA
2.16      River system and water resources.  The pattern of urban growth in
the GSPA has followed closely the local river system whose principal element
1/   CETESB - Dr. Herval Pina Ribeiro - "Estudo da funcao Ventilatoria em
Escolares vivendo em areas com diferentes niveis de poluicao do ar.-
Sao Paulo" - July 1976.
2/   Dr. Rene Mendes - 1973 and 1976.  "Avaliacao de efeitos da poluicao do
ar sobre a saude, atraves do estudo da mortalidade diaria na Grande
Sao Paulo e Sao Caetano do Sul."
3/   According to a Gallup Poll in December 1976, air pollution was perceived
by a majority to be a major problem affecting the quality of life in the
GSPA.



- 9 -
is the Upper Tiete basin (Map 3). In addition, the GSPA also covers the
headwaters of the Inquia river to the south and a smaller part of the basins
of the Sorocaba to the south-west and Paraiba to the east. The Tiete, GSPA's
most important river, cuts through the sedimentary basin of Sao Paulo from
east to west, running through the northern part of the city. The area drained
is 5,700 km2 and the average flow of the river is about 90 m'/per second. Its
most important tributaries are the Tamanduatei, Pinheiros and Cotia to the
south, and the Juqueri to the north.
2.17      To take advantage of the local topography and provide the GSPA with
adequate electric power generation, various dams were built over the years
along these water ways (Map 4). Downstream from the city of Sao Paulo the
Tiete was dammed, creating the Pirapora reservoir. Further upstream the
Edgard de Souza dam was built to regulate the level of the Tiete and the
Pinheiros and to pump water back from the Pirapora. The middle reach of the
Pinheiros was dammed (Pedreira dam and pumping station) to create the Billings
reservoir and its lower reach was turned into a reversible channel with an
intermediate pumping station (Traicao). A fourth dam was built to control a
tributary of the Pinheiros, creating the Guarapiranga reservoir.
2.18      Urban and demographic development in the GSPA has been accompanied
by a steady increase in domestic and industrial water needs. In 1929
Sao Paulo was already using water from the Guarapiranga reservoir, originally
built for electric energy purposes. The same has happened since 1958 with the
Billings reservoir, which provides water for the main industrial municipalities.
With the GSPA's water needs expected to increase from a current 240 liters per
capita per day to 330 liters by the year 2000, and given the extensive pollution
of the main water courses in the GSPA, the local authorities have recently
begun development of new systems to use water from basins adjacent to the
Upper Tiete. By the year 2000, as indicated in Table 2-1, as much as 65% of
the GSPA's demand would be met from sources outside the GSPA.
Table 2-1: WATER FLOW RATES IN THE GSPA AND TOTAL WATER DEMAND
1975    1980    1990    2000
…m------ m /sec -----------
Normal water flow into Billings Reserv.       87      87      87       87
External water flow into Billings Reserv.    7        18      39       62
Total water flow into Billings Reserv.        94     105     126      149
Total domestic and industrial water demand  25        36      61      95
2.19      Apart from surface water, underground waters are also of importance
for the local economy, as many industries satisfy their water needs from
wells. Around the edge of the Tiete basin shallow wells supply 60-70% of the
local water demand.



- 10 -
2.20      Water quality.  It was not until about 1950 that the local autho-
rities started to tackle the GSPA's water pollution problems and to make
investments specifically designed to increase the water supply network and
sewage collection services. Given the complexity of the hydraulic resources
of the GSPA, several solutions to control water pollution and meet the growing
demands for water and sewage collection services were considered by the
local government in the last 25 years. However, due to budgetary and institu-
tional constraints, and because of the absence until 1975-76 of appropriate
water pollution control legislation, only part of these solutions have been
implemented thus far.
2.21      As a result, sewage collection in the GSPA has not kept pace with
the growing domestic and industrial demands for this basic urban service,
making the water pollution control problem more acute each year. In relative
terms, only slightly more of the GSPA's population is served today by sewage
collection than in 1950. At that time 933 km of sewage collectors served
about 700,000 people, or 32% of the population, while today some 6,000 km of
collectors serve about 4.5 million people, or 36% of the population, leaving
6.5 million without sewage service and thus creating a serious public health
hazard.
2.22      Only 5% of the total sewage undergoes primary treatment, while 95%
is released untreated into the limited sewerage system, storm water canals,
and nearby rivers and reservoirs. Thus, the GSPA's ground water supply is
exposed to contamination from open discharges and septic tanks, and most of
its water bodies are exceeding their self-purification capacity. Receiving
the bulk of these domestic and industrial discharges, all the rivers crossing
the central metropolitan zone play the role of open sewers and are today in a
septic condition which results in offensive odors and causes health hazards
(Map 5). In tons of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), current pollution loads
in the GSPA's water bodies amount to about 610 tons/day, of which 41% originate
from domestic sewage, 44% from industrial sewage and 5% from urban run-off
(Annex V: Table 17). In 1978, average BOD concentration in the Tamanduatei,
which is the most polluted river, amounted to 140 mg/i or about half that for
raw sewage, and toxic heavy metal concentrations at times reached up to
20 mg/l in the case of mercury, i.e., 20 times the international standard for
drinking water.
2.23      In line with the above, the current average dilution index (i.e.
relation between river and total sewage flows) within the GSPA's river network
is about 3.0. Estimates of sewage flows and pollution loads in terms of BOD
over the next ten years further demonstrate that, unless early action is taken
by the local authorities to reduce water pollution in the GSPA, this index
would decrease to 1.5 by 1985 and that the average concentration of BOD in the
local rivers would increase from 80 mg/l to 150 mg/l (Annex V: Table 17).
2.24      The consequences of deteriorating water quality.  Water pollution
in the GSPA has reached levels which have serious health implications for the
local population. The inadequacy of the water supply network and sewage
treatment facilities is conducive to the transmission of water-borne diseases,



- 11 -
whether resulting from drinking untreated water, from contact in rivers and
reservoirs, or from eating uncooked vegetables or fruits which have been in
contact with contaminated water. Principally in the peripheral areas where
shallow wells are frequently used to compensate for the lack of a water supply
network, there is a high incidence of typhoid fever and paratyphoid, bacillary
dysentery and other diseases such as amoebic dysentery, infectious hepatitis
and meningitis. While cholera fortunately has not appeared in the GSPA, it
would likely find there an environment in which to flourish.
2.25      Studies by the University of Sao Paulo confirm the interrelation
between the lack of basic sanitation in the GSPA and the occurrence of trans-
mittable diseases. In particular, inadequate water supply and sewage disposal
was found to be the primary factor for the increase in infant mortality in the
GSPA between 1961-70 in contrast to the declines registered in the 1940s and
1950s (Annex V - Table 18).  The absence of basic sanitation in the area
was also largely responsible for the high incidence of acute diarrhea among
infants between 1968-70 when it accounted for 81% of all infectious diseases
occuring in children of less than one year.  The study also disclosed that the
low income groups which live in the areas without sewerage services and in
areas alongside the polluted water courses were most affected by the contamina-
tion of water.
2.26      There is also the risk of absorbing carcinogenic and mutagenic
compounds from water polluted by industrial wastes when these wastes are
discharged into a water course from which water is drawn off and undergoes
a conventional water treatment process for human consumption. This occurs
in the case of the Rio Grande water treatment plant which serves the GSPA's
industrial municipalities of Santo Andre, Sao Bernardo do Campo and Sao
Caetano. The effects of this health hazard can be very serious but are only
revealed after 10-20 years of continuous ingestion. By providing financing
for the installation of pretreatment facilities for the removal of toxic
elements from industrial discharges, the proposed project would make a signi-
ficant contribution towards reducing this particular health hazard.
2.27      There are other economic and social costs associated with water
pollution in the GSPA. The population living near water courses is forced to
endure noxious odors and unpleasant visual effects; land values adjacent to
the rivers tend to fall; high levels of organic and inorganic substances in
the rivers and reservoirs result in higher operating and maintenance costs for
the local water treatment and hydroelectric plants; and high concentrations of
toxic substances and minerals in industrial wastes have corrosive effects on
sewer pipes as well as on industrial facilities which use river water for
cooling and/or production purposes. Discharges of raw domestic and industrial
effluents into the rivers, combined with low water flows, have already led to
high silting along the Pinheiros, Tiete and Tamanduatei rivers, resulting in
increased dredging costs to the local economy. Finally, the deterioration of
water quality in the GSPA curtails opportunities for outdoor activities and is
compelling the local population to make longer journeys to find ecologically
acceptable recreational areas.



- 12 -
III. POLLUTION CONTROL STRATEGIES AND PROGRAMS IN THE GSPA
A.   Pollution Control Legislation
3.01      Federal legislation.  As in many other countries, specific legisla-
tion to protect the environment was enacted in Brazil only recently and, up to
the early 1970s, local authorities had to resort to general laws--such as the
National Health Code 1/--to combat pollution.  The first relevant federal
act dealing with environmental protection was Decree No. 73,000 of October 30,
1973, which created in the Ministry of the Interior the Special Secretariat of
the Environment (Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente - SEMA) for the purpose
of rationalizing the utilization of the country's natural resources and
environment, elaborating pollution control norms and standards, coordinating
federal pollution control activities, and assisting state pollution control
agencies.
3.02      Federal environmental control legislation was enacted in 1975.
Law No. 1413 of August 14, 1975 and its complementary Decree No. 76,389 of
October 3, 1975 introduced an obligation for all industries to prevent or
correct environmental pollution and established means--such as restrictions on
fiscal incentives and the suspension of production activities--to enforce
pollution control throughout the country. In addition, these legislative
acts divided pollution control responsibilities between the federal and
state governments, respectively, by recognizing the competence of the states
and municipalities to set norms for the operation of industries and to provide
for sanctions against industrial polluters within a general framework estab-
lished by the federal government, giving the federal authorities the exclusive
right to shut down, on pollution grounds, those industries deemed to be of
great importance for the development and national security of the country.
Although the latter prerogative--which extends to all major industrial sub-
sectors as specified under Decree No. 81,107--does not apply to emergency
situations involving grave or imminent risk for public health and economic
resources, it may make difficult the enforcement of pollution control legisla-
tion in heavily industrialized states. Therefore, to avoid potential conflicts
between the Sao Paulo state government and the federal government, agreement
was reached during loan negotiations with both parties that no later than
September 30, 1981 or on the date on which the aggregate of subloans authorized
or approved by the Bank reaches an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the proposed loan of US$27.0 million, whichever comes first, the Bank shall
have the right to suspend further commitments of Bank funds until it has
satisfied itself that the actions taken by the federal government in the state
of Sao Paulo under the abovementioned federal pollution control legislation
are not adversely affecting the execution of the Sao Paulo state's air and
water pollution control strategies. Assurances were also obtained from the
state government and the federal government that during the execution of the
project they will promptly furnish to the Bank all such information on the
1/   Codigo Nacional da Saude - Lei Federal No. 2.312 of September 3, 1954
and Regulamento approved by Decreto No. 49.974-A of January 21, 1961.



- 13 -
abovementioned federal actions as the Bank shall reasonably request so as to
maintain with the Brazilian authorities a continuous policy dialogue on the
subject.
3.03      In addition to the above legislation, the federal government also
issued, through SEMA, a number of pollution control regulations in 1975 and
1976. Among these, Regulation No. 13 of January 15, 1976 classified the interior
waters of Brazil, set quality standards for each class and determined permissible
levels of industrial effluents, and Regulation No. 231 of April 27, 1976 de-
fined the minimum air quality standards to be complied with at the state level.
3.04      Finally, referring specifically to environmental pollution control
in the GSPA, Resolution No. 14 was issued in early 1978 by the Economic
Development Council (Conselho de Desenvolvimiento Economico - CDE) to ban
federal incentives for new industrial projects in the area, except for a few
"special cases" involving light industry. Projects in this category may be
installed in the GSPA only if (i) they are non-polluting; (ii) their viability
depends on an urban location; and (iii) they are submitted by small and medium
sized Brazilian-owned enterprises.
3.05      As designed, the legal environmental protection framework at the
federal level leaves to the states important roles to play in the battle
against pollution. In line with the Brazilian Federal Constitution which
declares environmental protection a subject of "competitive competence"
between the federal government and the states, the federal pollution control
laws explicitly recognize the powers of the states to set tighter pollution
control standards or issue supplemental control legislation. Most of
the supervisory and enforcement functions (including the establishment of a
more comprehensive set of sanctions against violators, as only a few are
included at the federal level) are left to the states.
3.06      Sao Paulo state legislation.  Although some legislation dealing
with environmental protection was enacted in Sao Paulo as early as 1968,
it was not until 1975 that the state government effectively committed itself
to the preservation of the environment in the rest of the state. Through
Decrees No. 5993 of April 16, 1975 and No. 6371 of July 3, 1975, the existing
limited environmental protection efforts made by various state entities were
merged into the State Environmental Protection Agency (Compania de Tecnologia
de Saneamento Ambiental - CETESB). Shortly thereafter, State Laws No. 898 of
December 18, 1975 and No. 1172 of November 7, 1976 provided a legal framework
for preserving the water resources of the state, classified water bodies
according to their potential use, regulated land uses affecting protected
water bodies, and defined treatment and pretreatment requirements for all
industrial discharges. On April 19, 1977, Decree No. 9714 approved the
regulations for these two laws, allocating the water pollution control respon-
sibilities among state agencies and setting up approval and licensing pro-
cedures for economic activities in protected areas.
3.07      The decisive step in developing an effective legal framework for
correcting and preventing environmental pollution took place with the approval
of State Law No. 997 of May 31, 1976 and of its complementary Decree No. 8648



- 14 -
of September 8, 1976. The former enabled the state government to tackle air
as well as all other forms of environmental pollution and provided specific
sanctions against violators, and the latter delegated to CETESB the responsi-
bilities for applying the provisions of Law No. 997, established a licensing
and registration system for all productive enterprises, defined state air and
water quality standards, and approved regulations for pollution control and
sanctions.
3.08      While the above legal framework provides the state government with
the tools necessary to control environmental pollution, some areas of the
enacted legislation needed further clarification or special amendments. In
addition to the changes referred to in paras. 3.13 and 3.35, consideration
also had to be given by the state authorities to amending some of the provi-
sions of Law No. 997 and Decree No. 8468 that deal with the application
of sanctions to individual polluters, particularly regarding penalties and
their increase in the event of a repetition of the violation, to close possible
loopholes. Since the execution of a pollution control program in the GSPA
will depend heavily on the enforceability of the existing legislation, during
loan negotiations the Bank agreed with the state government on a definition
and application of the term "recurring event" (reincidencia) under Article 9
of Law No. 997 and Article 88 of Decree No. 8468. In line with these agree-
ments Law No. 997 has since been amended through Law No. 1874 of December 8,
1978. The related amendments of Decree No. 8468 would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
B.   Pollution Control Objectives and Alternatives
3.09      Objectives.  In the State of Sao Paulo, the environmental pollution
control plan being carried out by CETESB is laid down by the State Secretariat
of Public Works and the Environment (SOMA) in accordance with the general
policies formulated by the federal government. The basic aim of this plan is
to provide the population with air and water of a quality which, as a minimum,
does not pose any hazard to public health.
3.10      Air quality in the State of Sao Paulo is presently defined according
to the chief air pollutants--particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, carbon
monoxide and photochemical oxidants--using the air quality standards specified
in State Law No. 997 and Decree No. 8468. This legislation permits the
establishment of more restrictive standards for areas or regions where the air
quality should be suitable for recreation purposes, should not be harmful to
special species of plants or animals, should not interfere with specific
physical properties of the atmosphere or water bodies, or should not damage
certain natural resources. It also provides for the establishment of: (i) an
emergency action plan to protect the population against spells of severe
environmental pollution; and (ii) a system to take immediate action upon public
complaints about air and water pollution.
3.11      For water bodies, quality categories have been established by SEMA
on a national basis and have been adopted by SOMA for the State of Sao Paulo
as follows:



- 15 -
Class 1 -  water intended for domestic use without previous
treatment, or merely disinfected;
Class 2 -  water for domestic use, after conventional treat-
ment, for irrigating fruit and vegetable gardens
and for water sports;
Class 3 -  water for domestic use, after conventional treat-
ment, for keeping fish and other flora and fauna,
and for watering animals;
Class 4 -  water for domestic use, after sophisticated treat-
ment, or for boating, landscaping and industrial
uses, irrigation and other less demanding require-
ments.
3.12      Each of the above classes has specific standards of water quality re-
lating to BOD, oxygen and toxic content. In line with these standards, SOMA
has assigned a classification to every significant water body depending on
its desired use. If water quality in a particular body does not meet the
standard required by its classification, its achievement becomes CETESB's
objective. Because the volume and flow characteristics of each stretch of a
river or its tributaries is different, as well as the size of the local
population and the number and types of polluting industries, effluent standards
must be formulated individually to achieve the desired water quality classifi-
cation. This can be done most efficiently by developing hydrographic models.
CETESB has built up considerable experience in this field.
3.13      The appraisal mission found that effluent standards adopted under
State Decree 8468 were conflicting or contradictory in some cases. For example,
standards for discharge into a river, which presupposes full treatment, and
for discharge into the sewer system, which needs only pretreatment, are about
the same. Also, as established under Decree No. 10755, water quality classif-
ication for some water courses seem to be unrealistically high, even after
completion of the SANEGRAN system (paras. 3.16 to 3.25). Given the importance
of these pollution control regulations for achieving the purposes of the
project, during loan negotiations the state government agreed to amend (i) the
relevant effluent standards prior to making any disbursements for water pollu-
tion control subprojects under the proposed loan; and (ii) the water quality
classifications not later than January 31, 1981. As part of these amendments,
the Bank would ensure that changes in the existing water quality classification
are compatible with the technical characteristics and expected operational
performance of the SANEGRAN system (para. 3.16).
3.14      Alternative approaches to industrial pollution control.  A number of
approaches are being currently considered in Sao Paulo to reduce industrial
pollution:
(i) cutbacks in the rate of production by polluting industries.
This is, however, a drastic measure which can have costs
exceeding the benefits derived;



- 16 -
(ii) increases in technical and engineering efficiency in order to
raise the ratio of usable output to material input. This can be
done gradually through normal plant renewal, modernization
and expansion process;
(iii) substitution of raw materials or chemical compounds for less
toxic ones;
(iv) recovery and recycling of residuals as material inputs. This
approach is normally an attractive one as long as the value of
the recovered materials is greater than the cost of recovery;
(v) treating residuals biologically, mechanically, or chemically
to reduce the harmfulness of the pollutants discharged;
(vi) locating or relocating industries in an environment with
greater capacity to assimilate pollutants; and
(vii) augmenting the waste assimilation capacity of the environment.
For example, reservoirs built close to heavily polluted rivers
can be used to release water at periods of low river flow in
order to increase dilution of residuals; or conversely, residuals
can be stored and then released at periods of high river flow.
3.15      All approaches, except for the first, involve either a change in
the technology of production or external treatment of residuals (the so-called
"end-of-pipe" or direct treatment and pretreatment solution). In the past,
enterprises were encouraged to invest in direct treatment facilities rather
than to change production process or technology; mainly because the former
could more easily be demonstrated to be an anti-pollution measure and thus
qualify for subsidies. However, in recent years alternative approaches
to pollution control have been receiving increasing attention, since they can
be significantly more economical than "end-of-pipe" treatment. Furthermore,
for a target level of pollution reduction, the optimal solution will often
utilize both changes in process and technology, and direct treatment. The
particular mix will depend on available technologies, relative costs and
possible additional economic benefits. In line with the above, the Sao Paulo
authorities intend to encourage industries to consider alternative pollution
control approaches whenever feasible to ensure that optimum solutions are
selected for individual pollution control investments.
C.   Water Pollution Control Strategy and Programs
3.16      Master plan for sewage collection and treatment.  The state
government's strategy for controlling water pollution is based on a master
plan for providing water and sewerage services in the GSPA, known as SANEGRAN.
The basic strategy of the local authorities in developing this plan was to use
existing facilities to their maximum capacity and that water quality for the
rivers and water bodies comply with the state law and regulations.



- 17 -
3.17      Preparation of the master plan, completed in July 1976, took into
account the quality of the rivers as well as the size of the present popula-
tion, industrial development, and population projections through the year
2,000. The projections included an estimate of the increase and expansion
of polluting industries and the territorial distribution of both population
and industry.
3.18      The master plan presented three alternatives.  Alternative III,
known as the Barueri solution, was selected, taking into account present cost
value, impact on the local environment and on other water basins, access
to treatment plants and operational safety, final sludge disposal, land
expropriation, and availability of labor. It proposed three treatment plants,
one of them in the region of Barueri located at the city limit and inside Sao
Paulo's water basin.
3.19      The alternative selected divides the GSPA into three large regions,
each one with a secondary treatment plant. In the year 2000, about 88% of
the GSPA's population will be served by the sewerage system and 95 m3/sec of
domestic and industrial effluents will be biologically treated, eliminating
85% of the organic load through the "activated sludge process". The treatment
plants will be implemented in stages. The first one, for which Bank financing
of US$110 million (i.e. 10% of total project cost) is being provided under
Loan 1525-BR, is expected to be completed by 1983.
3.20      The activated sludge process has been selected as the most appro-
priate biological sewage treatment for SANEGRAN because (i) it represents
the lowest capital and operational cost for such a large volume of sewage
to be treated; (ii) the effluent quality of an activated sludge process
is generally better than that of other processes; and (iii) the process is
more flexible and it requires less land for the same treatment capacity.
3.21      The process of decontamination in the GSPA will start with the
establishment of a wide collection system covering the whole metropolitan area
and the elimination of clandestine connections to the storm water canal and
sewage units. The collection system will be connected to the main interceptors
running along the nearby rivcrs, which will carry the sewage to the treatment
plants of Barueri, ABC and Suzanio (Map 3). Execution of this program by the
State Water Supply Company (Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao
Paulo - SABESP), is expected to lead, through the year 2000, to the progressive
coverage of sewerage and sewage services in the GE-_ indicated in Table 3.1



- 18 -
Table 3-1:  FUTURE SEWERAGE AND SEWAGE SERVICES IN THE GSPA
Sewage
Total                 Sewerage                  Treatment
Year        Population          Population Served          Population Served
(Millions)         Millions       %           Millions      Z
1980            12.26                5.25      43             2.00 /1   16.0
1981            12.70                6.02      47             2.16      17.0
1982            13.16                6.79      52             3.68      28.0
1983 /2         13.58                7.52      55             5.43      40.0
1985            14.00                9.40      67             7.50      53.0
1990            16.75               11.80      70            10.60      63.0
1995            18.96               14.40      76            13.80      72.0
2000            21.60               18.95      88            18.95      88.0
/1   Primary treatment only.
75   End of first stage.
Source: SABESP
3.22      Industrial effluents program.  Since the industrial discharges
of toxic and hazardous materials into the GSPA's general sewage system would
jeopardize the effectiveness of SANEGRAN's activated sludge process and
the full utilization of its treatment plants, in early 1977 the local autho-
rities embarked on a complementary water pollution control program to treat
and pretreat industrial effluents in the GSPA. As a first step towards the
execution of this program, for which financing is to be provided under the
proposed project, CETESB, in coordination with SABESP, carried through
November 1979 a preliminary survey of 2,689 industries. Detailed informa-
tion about each major polluter was collected including the type of industrial
process in use, the current and forecast volume of liquid discharges and a
preliminary estimate of pretreatment investment costs. Out of the surveyed
industries about 15% were found to be significant polluters in need of
immediate water pollution control action. Though this preliminary survey
represents an adequate base for initiating a corrective industrial water
pollution control program in the GSPA, a more systematic and well programmed
identification of industrial water polluters will be needed by CETESB for
long-term enforcement purposes. Accordingly, during loan negotiations assur-
ances were obtained from CETESB that, pari passu with the execution of
SANEGRAN (1980-83), it will carry out a detailed survey throughout the GSPA
area to progressively and systematically identify industrial water polluters
and assess the industry's needs for pollution control financing. As part of
the periodic reporting to the Bank under the proposed project, CETESB will be
required to submit annually its plans for water pollution control surveying
activities and to report periodically about its performance in this field.
3.23      Some of the polluters who will require pretreatment of their toxic
wastes under this program are already connected to SABESP's network, others
will be in the future, and others not at all. Their industrial effluents



- 19 -
offer different degrees of risk to the environment depending on their produc-
tion activities, their location, and the water quality standards to be
attained in the adjoining rivers and water bodies. Because of these complex
factors and given that CETESB's aim is to protect all water resources as well
as the SANEGRAN system, execution of the water pollution control program calls
for a specific plan of action to deal with industrial water polluters in the
GSPA in a rational and efficient manner. To help in that endeavor, the
appraisal mission assisted CETESB in formulating a water pretreatment strategy
based on a simple classification of industries with priorities for enforcement
within the SANEGRAN system (Annex I).
3.24      The strategy would divide industrial polluters into those whose
effluents are (A) toxic and/or dangerous either to SANEGRAN sewer pipes or
biological treatment plants and (B) less toxic or non-toxic but with possible
interference effects on the SANEGRAN system or its treatment plants. Group
(A) includes metallurgical, electrical, chemical and textile industries.
Both groups are further classified as either (1) connected or to be connected
to SANEGRAN before start-up of the planned treatment plants; (2) connection
afterwards or not at all but affecting Class I, II or III waters and (3) same
as (2) but affecting Class IV waters only. The strategy would attach top
priority to industries classified Al. Those classified A2 would not affect
the operation of SANEGRAN in the near future, but their effluents are so toxic
that they would have a dangerous effect on the area's water resources. The
Bl-3 categories would have still lower priorities, since their effluents are
judged to be significantly less dangerous.
3.25      This strategy will need to be further refined as the inventory of
industrial polluters (para. 3.22) is completed. Priorities within subcate-
gories will depend on how the effluents of each polluter affect the concentra-
tion of pollutants in the water bodies. CETESB's close coordination with
SABESP (para. 4.10) will be needed to develop the strategy properly. The
latter must determine the effluent quality and volume standards for accepting
each plant's discharges into the SANEGRAN system for treatment. The timing of
the construction of the system will have an effect on when each plant will
have an opportunity to connect and therefore whether it wilt be classed as A-1
or A-2. Also depending on the timetable, decisions must be made on whether a
polluter in categories A-2 and B-2 should pretreat in anticipation of subse-
quent connection with the system or do full treatment without connection.
During loan negotiations this water pollution control strategy was reviewed
in detail with CETESB and SABESP and agreement was reached on its implementa-
tion under the project.
D.   Air Pollution Control Strategies and Programs
3.26      Since appropriate pollution control legislation was not enacted in
Sao Paulo until mid-1976, the state authorities have started only recently to
develop specific air pollution control measures. These actions have been
mostly preventive in nature, centering on the establishment of a licensing
system for new economic activities as called for under State Law No. 997.
Measures to control existing sources of air pollution have been limited in
scope and taken mostly in response to citizen complaints.



- 20 -
3.27      While a number of corrective enforcement programs have been iden-
tified, their execution remains contingent upon SOMA finalizing basic control
strategies for the chief air pollutants in line with the air quality standards
specified in the state's legislation. These strategies are being designed by
CETESB for application throughout the state, taking into account the character-
istics of the sources of air pollution, the speed of implemeuLation of pollution
control programs, and the availability of pollution control technology. In
line with these factors, the State of Sao Paulo has been divided into "air
basins" corresponding to the 11 administrative regions of the state. Some of
these regions, in turn, have been subdivided into "air sub-basins" on the
basis mainly of topographic and meteorological parameters. Each region
has been further classified as either saturated or nonsaturated, depending
on whether or not pollutant concentrations exceed any of the air quality
standards in the state legislation.
3.28      Guidelines have been developed by SOMA for the design and execution
of air pollution control strategies and programs for each of the above air
basins. The location of new sources of pollution will be the determining
factor in CETESB's decision to grant installation and operating licenses. In
"saturated" basins installation of new sources of pollution or expansion of
existing ones will be allowed only when they do not cause an appreciable
increase in the pollutant levels. In both "saturated" and "nonsaturated"
basins, the relocation of highly polluting activities will be encouraged. No
new sources of air pollution will be allowed where they could cause a nuisance
to the neighborhood, such as in residential or commercial areas. Moreover,
for new pollution sources involving pollutants for which no air quality
standards are set in the state's legislation, emission control will be by
means of the best practicable technology available as defined by CETESB.
3.29      Basically, the aim of the air pollution control strategies being
developed by CETESB for the various air basins is to determine for each
chief pollutant, by correlating air quality and pollutant emissions using
mathematical models, the reductions necessary in the existing and future
emissions so as to achieve the state's air quality standards. Once these
reductions are ascertained, emission 1/ and conditioning 2/ standards will be
established taking into account available pollution control technology and the
conditions under which such pollution sources will be allowed to operate.
3.30      Among the classified air basins, the GSPA has been assigned top
priority by the state authorities on the basis of the air quality data of
the region and other indicators such as public complaints, industrial concen-
tration and expected urbanization and industrialization trends. The state
authorities tackled air pollution in the GSPA first in late 1975 when SOMA,
with the assistance of CETESB, launched "Operacao Branca" (White Operation)
to (i) deal with public complaints relating to air pollution by stationary
sources; (ii) identify and survey stationary sources of particulate matter
1/   The maximum concentrations and/or quantities of any and all forms of
matter discharged into the air by the different pollution sources.
2/   The conditions of any form of discharge into the air.



- 21 -
emissions; and (iii) establish a complete inventory of local industrial
sources of air pollution. Completed in late 1976, this operation helped
CETESB determine that, to meet the state's air quality standards, control
must be exercised over (i) gasoline powered vehicles for carbon monoxide;
(ii) stationary combustion units for sulfur dioxide; and (iii) industrial
processes and activities for particulate matter. Since then, CETESB has
been developing specific strategies and programs for these chief pollutants.
3.31      Carbon monoxide.  With automobiles contributing 94% of the carbon
monoxide emissions in the GSPA, SOMA intends to control this pollutant by
establishing and progressively enforcing emission standards for new vehicles.
Negotiations between the local authorities and the automobile industry have
been under way since mid-1977 and it is expected that cars manufactured by
1982 will be equipped with appropriate emission control devices. However,
because of the large size of the GSPA's automotive fleet, its expected growth
and the magnitude of this particular pollution problem, even if the present
1982 date is advanced it would take years for carbon monoxide pollution to
decrease significantly. Thus, the state authorities are developing additional
means to obtain a short-term reduction of carbon monoxide emissions. The most
significant step has been the mandatory use in the GSPA of a "balanced"
gasoline containing 15% ethyl alcohol, introduced in mid-1977. Air quality
data for 1978 indicate that this measure led to some improvement in maximum
carbon monoxide concentrations compared to 1976. Further progress along these
lines should also be forthcoming over the next few years due to the automobile
industry's decision to manufacture annually 250,000 automobiles burning 100%
ethyl alcohol starting in 1980. Finally, local authorities are also consider-
ing a mandatory program of annual tune-ups of gasoline powered vehicles
which could reduce motor related pollutants by an additional 15%. Given the
operational issues surrounding the latter program, however, SOMA has not yet
established a timetable for its execution.
3.32      Sulfur dioxide.  With the chief source of this pollutant being the
stationary combustion of high sulfur fuels, the two basic options for reducing
sulfur dioxide concentrations in the air are "high stacks" to allow an adequate
dispersion of the pollutant in the atmosphere, and increasing the use of low
sulfur fuels. Due to the particular atmospheric conditions in the GSPA, high
stacks will probably prove to be the preferred solution in only a few cases.
For this reason and the fact that continuous use of low sulfur oil would lead
to a 70% reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions, SOMA has been negotiating with
the federal authorities to have larger quantities of low sulfur oil allocated
to the GSPA. These negotiations have already produced two specific results:
(i) a year-round supply of low sulfur oil to industries located in the most
critical area (Capuava); and (ii) an increase in the winter-months' allocation
of low sulfur oil to cover 40% of the area's total fuel needs. Because most
low sulfur oil is imported and is about 20% more expensive, CETESB and PETROBRAS
are also discussing the possibility of installing desulfurizing plants in
Brazil. Finally, SOMA and CETESB are taking steps to prohibit the installation
of any new industries using large quantities of high sulfur fuel oil and
CETESB is studying the feasibility of using stacks for both new and existing
sources, utilizing more than 100 tons/day of fuel.
3.33      Toxic heavy metals.  At present the state has no specific air
emission control standards for toxic heavy metals from industrial sources.



- 22 -
To the extent that these metals are emitted as particles, they are controlled
by particulate emission standards. CETESB feels that more specific standards
for the GSPA are not required at this time, because except for lead there do
not apper to be any known significant sources of heavy metals in the area.
Lead emissions only come from a few secondary processing sources, and recent
tests conducted by CETESB have shown no harmful effects on the surrounding
population. As part of its continuous monitoring program in the GSPA,
CETESB intends to look out for significant concentrations of these metals.
A scanning electron microscope, to be financed by the technical assistance
component of the proposed loan, will give CETESB the capability to analyse
the data from this monitoring network for such concentrations. If signif-
icant concentrations of other heavy metals turn up in the future, CETESB
will take the necessary actions to control them.
3.34      Particulate matter.  Of all the pollution control programs being
developed by SOMA, the one for particulate matter is by far the most advanced
and defined because: (i) its execution is entirely within the control of the
state authorities; (ii) adequate experience and data have been accumulated by
CETESB; and (iii) appropriate local technology is available to deal efficiently
with this problem. Execution of this program, which would be assisted under
the proposed loan (para. 4.12), would start in early 1980 and focus on the
284 firms which have been found by CETESB to be responsible for 97.5% of the
376 metric tons/day of particulate matter emitted daily by the industrial
sector in the GSPA. Enforcement would initially focus on the largest polluters
(para. 2.06). The smallest ones would be required to comply with the state's
legislation only where simple, cost efficient systems are feasible.
3.35      Using a mathematical model which assumes a homogeneous distribution
of the reduction of the emission sources and a linear correlation between
emission and concentration in the atmosphere, CETESB concluded that, to meet
the state's air quality standard for particulate matter in the GSPA the point
and area sources of particulate matter pollution would have to reduce on the
average their emissions by 75%. However, a review by the appraisal mission
of the technical information, studies and assumptions used by CETESB concluded
that the proposed strategy would not be sufficiently cost effective. In
addition, this strategy would not induce industrial polluters to use pollution
control devices efficient enough to deal effectively with micro particulate
matter emissions which have the most adverse effect on the population health.
To ensure a long lasting improvement of the GSPA's environment, during loan
negotiations the Bank and CETESB agreed on a revised particulate matter pollu-
tion control strategy which would (i) call for new industrial enterprises and
existing industrial operations to control their particulate matter emissions
by at least 90% and 80%, respectively; and (ii) involve complementary correc-
tive actions to reduce area sources of particulate matter pollution, so as
to comply with the state's air quality standards for particulate matter for
about 10 years starting in 1983. Issuance for all relevant industrial sub-
sectors of the particulate matter emission and conditioning standards needed
to initiate execution of this agreed upon strategy would be a condition of
disbursement of Bank funds for air pollution control subprojects.



- 23 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin and Objectives
4.01      Initial discussions took place in late 1976 when it became evident,
during preparation of the Bank's Greater Sao Paulo sewage collection and
treatment project, 1/ that pretreatment of industrial effluents was necessary
to prevent the discharge of toxic substances into the general sewerage system
in order to ensure the operational effectiveness and full utilization of
the planned treatment plants. The project's scope was expanded in 1977 to
include air pollution control since both the Brazilian authorities and the
Bank felt that a broader approach was required to deal effectively with the
deterioration of the environment in the GSPA. After several preparatory
missions, the project was appraised in February/March 1978. However, due
to the decision of the federal and state authorities to have the Bank loan
contracted by the Federal rather than the Sao Paulo state government, the
financial, institutional, contractual and procedural arrangements of the
project were only finalized in October 1979.
4.02      The project would constitute the first concerted program in South
America to control industrial pollution in a major metropolitan area. Within
the framework of Brazil's pollution control policies and the Bank's urban
development strategy for that country, the main goals of the proposed operation
for the GSPA would be to assist in:
(a) reducing industrial particulate matter emissions as part of
CETESB's corrective and preventive particulate matter pollution
control strategy designed to meet the state's air quality standards
for that particular pollutant for 10 years starting in 1983;
(b) reducing significantly industrial discharges of toxic substances in
the GSPA's rivers and achieving gradually by 1984 some of the
water quality standards defined in the existing state and federal
pollution control legislation;
(c) reducing the health hazards caused by environmental pollution
with its proportionately greater effect on the urban poor
by avoiding the recurrence of episodic pollution and minimizing
the incidence of chronic water or air-borne diseases;
(d) complementing the Bank's Greater Sao Paulo sewage collection
and treatment project by permitting the discharge of pre-
treated industrial effluents into the planned general sewerage
system; and
(e) building up CETESB's operational and technical capability for
designing and implementing an integrated long-term pollution
control strategy in the GSPA and the rest of the state.
B.   Project Size and Financing
4.03      CETESB, with assistance from SABESP and the state development bank
(BADESP), has estimated that investments and technical assistance to be
assisted under the project would total US$187 million. This estimate is based
on conservative judgments regarding (i) the likely demand for financing;
1/   Loan 1525-BR, approved by the Board of Directors on February 28, 1978.



- 24 -
(ii) future human and technical resources of the participating agencies and
their subproject processing capacity; (iii) the average preparation and
implementation time anticipated for subprojects; (iv) the capacity of local
sources of procurement for pollution control equipment; and (v) the physical
and price contingencies for pollution control subprojects.
4.04      Based on two industrial surveys carried out by CETESB in 1977-78,
air pollution control investments are expected to account for 55.6% of
total project costs as compared to 40.6% for water pollution control; 3.7%
would be allocated for technical assistance. On average, the foreign
exchange content of air pollution control subprojects would amount to 32.5%
as against 28% for water pollution control.  Given the expected distribution
of subproject costs, the estimated overall foreign exchange content of the
project is 31.0%.  Table 4-1 below provides a summary of the costs and
foreign exchange content of the project.
Table 4-1:  ESTIMATED /1 TOTAL PROJECT COSTS AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTENT
(Millions of Current US$)
Project Items                  Total Cost             Foreign Exchange Content
% of Total                  Z of Total
Amount  Project Cost       Amount   Project Cost
Air Pollution Control
Project Design and
Preparation                    8.5        4.5              1.2       0.6
Civil Works and
Installation                  34.5       18.4              8.5       4.6
Machinery and Equipment         51.8       27.8             21.2      11.3
Spare Parts                      9.2        4.9              2.8       1.5
Total                  104.0      55.6             33.8       18.0
Water Pollution Control
Project Design and
Preparation                    6.3        3.4              1.3       0.7
Civil Works and
Installation                  29.2       15.6             5.8        3.1
Machinery and Equipment         35.2       18.8             12.6       6.8
Permanent Working Capital /2
and Spare Parts                5.3        2.8              1.5       0.8
Total                   76.0      40.6             21.2       11.4
Technical Assistance             7.0        3.7              3.0       1.6
Grand Total            187.0     100.0             58.0       31.0
/1   Estimates based on a 1977-78 survey carried by CETESB among some 1,500
industrial polluters in the GSPA, with individual cost calculations
prepared for about one-third of the polluters surveyed.
/2   Minimum stock of raw materials (i.e., chemicals) required to operate
water pollution control systems.



- 25 -
4.05      With expected average 15% contributions by the sponsors of individual
subprojects, US$159.0 million equivalent in other financial resources will be
required to execute the project. To help bridge that financing gap the Sao
Paulo State Government requested through the Federal Government financing
from the World Bank of US$58 million, which would be about equivalent to the
estimated foreign exchange component of the project and will amount to 31% of
the estimated total project cost. Of the remaining US$101.0 million equivalent,
the state government would contribute US$75.2 million through annual budgetary
appropriations of which US$71.2 million would be channeled through the State
Fund for Basic Sanitation (FESB) (para. 4.06) and US$4.0 million through
CETESB (para. 4.17). The US$25.8 million balance would be covered through a
loan to be contracted between the state government and the Banco Nacional de
Rabitacao (BNH) and whose proceeds would be made available to the abovemen-
tioned metropolitan fund for the exclusive financing of water pollution
control subprojects. To firm up this project financing plan the Bank obtained
assurances from the state government that through project execution it will
provide counterpart resources aggregating at least US$75.2 million equivalent,
and in addition it will make available any additional resources necessary to
ensure full disbursement of the proposed loan. BNH has also committed
itself to the abovementioned US$25.8 million loan whose signing would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. Finally, to ensure timely availability of
state funds for the project, the Bank obtained assurances from the state
government that throughout project execution it will make, no later than
December 31 of each year, the necessary budgetary appropriations. The size of
these yearly appropriations and their financing during each year would be
determined by the state government, based on an annual project budget to be
prepared by BADESP with the assistance of CETESB no later than July 31 of each
year. Table 4-2 below shows the expected allocation of project financing
among the various sources of funds.
Table 4-2: SOURCES AND ALLOCATION OF PROJECT FINANCING
(Millions of Current US$)
Pollution Control       Technical           Total
Sources of Financing         Air        Water       Assistance       Amount      %
World Bank                  33.8        21.2            3.0            58.0     31.0
State Government Budget    54.3         16.9              -            71.2     38.1
BNH                            -        25.8              -            25.8     13.8
54.3       42.7                           97.0     51.9
CETESB /1                      -           -            4.0             4.0      2.1
Other /2                    15.9        12.1                           28.0     15.0
Grand Total           104.0        76.0            7.0          187.0    100.0
/1   State budgetary appropriations to CETESB.
/2   Contributions from ultimate beneficiaries.



- 26 -
C.   Channeling and Terms of the Bank Loan
4.06      The proposed loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil
to be passed on under similar terms and conditions to the State of Sao Paulo.
The loan would have a fixed 15-year amortization period, including 3 years of
grace, corresponding to the estimated maturities of the expected large number
of subloans. At the federal level, the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico (BNDE) would act as financial administrator of the Bank loan on
behalf of the federal government. For assuming this function BNDE -- which
would not bear any financial risk under the proposed operation -- would be
given a loan administration fee of 0.5% p.a. to be applied pro rata temporis
on the outstanding loan balance. At the state level all funds would be
channeled to ultimate beneficiaries through a special project account (PROCOP)
to be established in FESB. Payment by the State of an initial US$5 million
into PROCOP and approval by FESB's steering committee of the by-laws needed to
ensure the operation of PROCOP would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
4.07      In accordance with the Central Bank's Resolution No. 394 which
regulates the Development Banking Law No. 4595, financial assistance by
PROCOP will be limited to (i) individuals residing in Brazil; (ii) private
corporate bodies based in Brazil and controlled directly or indirectly by
individual residents domiciled in Brazil; and (iii) corporate bodies in the
public sector, or entities directly or indirectly instituted by them.
D. Project Execution and Coordination
4.08      At the state level responsibility for overall project supervision
would be assumed by FESB's steering committee (the Committee). Given the
particular characteristics of the project and so as to secure a coordinated
and concerted approach to environmental protection in the GSPA, the membership
of this committee will include the state secretaries of public works and
environment (chairman), finance, planning, metropolitan affairs, and industry
and commerce; representatives of DAEE, the State Bank of Sao Paulo, BADESP,
CETESB and SABESP. Primary responsibilities of the Committee under the
project would include approval of PROCOP's annual budget and resource mobiliza-
tion program, periodic review of PROCOP's operational activities and policies
and procedures, approval of technical assistance grants and pollution control
programs to be financed under PROCOP. To carry out these duties, the Committee
would be assisted by BADESP and CETESB.
1/   "Junta de Coordenacao Financeira do Estado de Sao Paulo" of the Secretariat
of Finance.



- 27 -
4.09      As PROCOP's administrator, BADESP would not bear any financial risk
but would be primarily responsible for the financial management of PROCOP's
assets and portfolio. In this regard, BADESP would (i) develop, with the
assistance of CETESB and other state agencies, subproject appraisal and super-
vision procedures for PROCOP; (ii) recommend to the Committee economic
and financial eligibility criteria to be applied for subproject financing;
(iii) carry out the financial and economic analysis of subprojects;
(iv) approve pollution control subloans and propose the approval of technical
assistance grants to the Committee; (v) sign subloan contracts and authorize
subloan disbursements; (vi) supervise and control jointly with CETESB the
execution of approved subprojects and programs; (vii) report periodically to
the Committee on PROCOP's operational activities and financial performance;
(viii) promote jointly with CETESB and, as need be, other public and private
institutions the programs and projects sponsored by PROCOP; (ix) prepare
PROCOP's budget annually; (x) recommend to the Committee alternative strategies
for mobilizing needed resources; and (xi) keep accounting records of PROCOP's
resources.
4.10      Given the highly technical nature of the project and the fact that
the demand for PROCOP's financing would depend largely on the enforcement of
the pollution control legislation by CETESB, this institution would be entrusted
with the technical and physical execution and supervision of the programs and
projects assisted by PROCOP. As PROCOP's technical agent, CETESB would be
responsible for (i) assisting BADESP in developing PROCOP's subproject appraisal
and supervision procedures; (ii) establishing the technical and technological
eligibility criteria for subproject financing; (iii) appraising and approving
the technical and pollution control characteristics of subprojects; (iv) super-
vising and controlling jointly with BADESP the physical execution of approved
programs and subprojects; (v) assisting industrial polluters in contracting
consulting services for subproject design and execution; (vi) submitting
periodically for the Committee's consideration training programs for its staff
and industrialists of priority industrial subsectors; (vii) preparing periodic
reporting on the technical and technological performance of approved programs
and projects; and (viii) assisting BADESP in the preparation of PROCOP's
yearly operational and financial forecasts. In view of the importance of the
project for the execution of the master plan for sewage collection and treat-
ment in the GSPA, CETESB would be assisted by SABESP in processing water
pollution control subprojects (paras. 3.22 and 3.25).
4.11      Coordination among the abovementioned state agencies would be
secured through inter-agency cooperative agreements between CETESB and BADESP
and between CETESB and SABESP that would detail the operational responsibili-
ties of each institution under PROCOP. Signing of the agreement between
CETESB and BADESP would be a condition of loan effectiveness, and signing of
the agreement between CETESB and SABESP a condition of disbursement for water
pollution control subprojects. CETESB and BADESP would receive a quarterly
fee equivalent to 0.125% and .0375%, respectively, paid from PROCOP's resources
and calculated on PROCOP's outstanding subloans portfolio at the end of each
quarter. CETESB's smaller fee reflects additional funding which the institu-
tion (i) already receives for analyzing pollution control investments under
the state pollution control legislation, and (ii) will receive from SABESP
to supervise industries connected to the general sewerage system.



- 28 -
E.   Loan Components and Characteristics
4.12      The proposed Bank loan would be allocated as follows:  US$55 million
to cover part of the capital requirements of a lending program to assist
existing industries in installing the air and water pollution control systems
needed to comply with the state and federal pollution control legislation;
and US$3 million for a technical assistance program directed at CETESB,
industrial polluters, and local manufacturers of pollution control equipment.
The terminal date for submission of subproject financing requests would be
March 31, 1982, and the closing date March 31, 1983 (Annex V - T-22).
4.13      Pollution control financing.  In line with Sao Paulo's state
environmental pollution control priorities, this component would be primarily
used to finance particulate matter and water pollution control investments
undertaken by existing industries 1/ mainly in the GSPA. However, to assist
CETESB in extending its corrective industrial pollution control activities in
the other major air and water basins of the state, financing could be made
available to industrial pollution control subprojects outside the GSPA provided
that (i) any pollution control programs encompassing these subprojects have
been approved ex-ante by the Bank (subloans would then be approved within
the regular "free-limit" procedures); or (ii) any subproject outside an
approved program would require Bank approval. All subloans would be made in
cruzeiros with the foreign exchange risk on the proceeds of the proposed loan
being borne by the State of Sao Paulo. To induce industrial polluters to
comply more readily with the state and federal pollution control legislation
and to reflect the usually high negative financial rates of return of pollution
control investments, the state government proposes to onlend funds to ultimate
beneficiaries at rates somewhat below local market rates for productive
industrial investment financing. It justifies this approach on the following
grounds:
(1) the benefits of the proposed pollution control program are
expected to accrue primarily to the low income groups;
(2) the lower interest rates are unlikely to affect the allocation
of resources in the economy and bias investment decisions
in favor of unnecessarily expensive capital equipment;
(3) other countries that give high priority to pollution control
provide industrialists with significant incentives such as
accelerated depreciation, grants, tax credits, subsidized
financing and government guarantees for purchasing control
systems, most of which are not available to industry in Brazil
(Annex II); and
1/   Means an industrial entity which has been established and begun its
operations on or before the date of the signing of the loan agreement
with the Bank.



- 29 -
(4) existing industries should not be expected to assume the full cost
of pollution control investments, since zoning and pollution control
legislation were non-existent when they initiated operations.
In addition, the state government proposes to differentiate between large
scale industry with sales in excess of 333,000 ORTNs (US$4.0 million equiva-
lent) and small and medium scale industry (SMI) with sales below this level
and not pertaining to an industrial group with consolidated equity amounting
to more than 1.0 million ORTNs (US$12.0 million equivalent). Large scale
industries would receive financing from PROCOP at an interest rate of 2% p.a.
plus monetary correction equivalent to 100% of the ORTN index, while small
and medium scale industries would receive such financing at the same interest
rate but with monetary correction limited to 65% of ORTN. These rates compare
to 9% p.a. plus full monetary correction offered by BNDE to large scale indus-
tries for productive investments in Sao Paulo, and to 7% plus monetary correc-
tion of 70% of ORTN to small and medium scale industries for similar purposes.
4.14      To provide sufficient flexibility during the initial implementation
period of the project, while assuring that only a relatively small part of the
Bank loan would be relent at what might turn out to be sub-optimal onlending
terms, BADESP would periodically review the adequacy of the above financial
charges for SMI and, based on the operating experience under the project and
inflationary developments, could make financing term adjustments for new loans
as necessary. To that effect, during loan negotiations the state government
and the Bank agreed that no later than March 31, 1981 or upon commitment of
US$18 million of the loan, whichever is earlier, they would review jointly
the adequacy of the onlending conditions for SMI to (i) assess the need to
modify the method used to calculate monetary correction; (ii) determine the
period during which the method so agreed will be applied; and (iii) the date
on which the next such review will take place. Should a disagreement occur
between the Bank and the state government as a result of this initial review--
or after any subsequent such reviews occurring at least once a year--the Bank
shall have the right to suspend commitments of Bank funds for SMI subloans
after June 30, 1981 or the date on which US$22.5 million of the loan has been
committed, whichever comes first.
4.15      To ensure that the debt-service position and borrowing capacity of
the subloan beneficiaries will not be adversely affected by the required
pollution control investments, onlending terms would include a minimum subloan
amortization of 10 years, including a minimum grace period of 3 years. Subloans
would be processed in accordance with PROCOP's operational policies and
procedures and would be required to satisfy the subproject eligibility criteria
specified for the particulate matter and water pollution control subprograms
(para. 4.21). All subloans would be made on the basis of individual subproject
appraisals which would be prepared according to a standard format agreed upon
with the participating agencies during loan negotiations (Annex III). The
procedures for subproject appraisal would be similar to those for Bank loans
1/   National Treasury Bond.



- 30 -
to development finance companies. Technical approval by CETESB would be
required for all operations prior to BADESP's review of the financial aspects
of the subloans and the creditworthiness of the subborrowers. The limit for
subloans not requiring prior Bank approval (the "free-limit") would be
US$400,000. However, in order to enable Bank monitoring and ex-post evalua-
tion of PROCOP's appraisal procedures and decision making, all subloan appli-
cations for Bank financing would include a copy of the subproject appraisal
report.
4.16      Based on industry's needs and the expected subproject processing
capacity of the participating state agencies, it is expected that some 600
subloans for pollution control financing would be granted, of which about 250
(US$34 million) would be for particulate matter pollution control and about
350 (US$21 million) for water pollution control. The average cost of assisted
investments is expected to amount to US$400,000 for particulate matter pollu-
tion control and US$215,000 for water pollution control. Metallurgical,
non-metallic mineral, chemical, and food industries would account for the bulk
of the forecast air pollution control financing. Beneficiaries of water
pollution control subloans would be more varied, with metallurgical, metal-
working, electrical, chemical, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, textiles and
food industries accounting for about half.
4.17      Technical assistance.  This loan component would finance, through
grants to CETESB, the foreign expenditures for a three-year training program,
research, and laboratory and monitoring equipment needed by CETESB to build
up the technical capability of its staff and contribute to making the indus-
trial sector more receptive to environmental pollution control. Since most
subprojects under this component would be of significant importance for the
success of the project, all technical assistance financing proposals would be
reviewed by the Committee and would require Bank approval. Each request for
technical assistance financing would be supported by a specific proposal
including detailed information on the subproject objectives, scope, costs,
implementation schedule and significance to CETESB's pollution control
activities (Annex IV).
4.18      The training program, which still requires approval by the Committee,
was reviewed by the Bank during loan negotiations and is acceptable. Designed
by CETESB's competent training division, this program is meant to provide the
training at all levels necessary to enable the three participating agencies to
successfully carry out the project and staff of other state pollution control
agencies to build up environment pollution control capabilities.  TrainingN
will take the form of short and long term foreign graduate fellowships for
CETESB engineers, seminars and courses taught by CETESB's staff and consul-
tants, and foreign study or observation tours. Aside from general orientation
courses for top level managers and operational courses for technicians, CETESB
plans to offer special courses in project design and analysis, pollution
monitoring and emission source testing, engineering economics, project cost
analysis, environmental economics, by-product recovery techniques, and recycling
of industrial wastes. About 3,300 participants are expected to attend of
which 80% would come from the industrial sector, 11% from state government
agencies and 9% from consulting firms. Total cost of the training program is



- 31 -
estimated at US$1.75 million equivalent of which about US$0.3 million would be
foreign exchange expenditures. CETESB will receive separate budget allocations
for local expenditures from the State Government.
4.19      Responsibility for administering the training program will be given
to a coordinating committee in CETESB chaired by the superintendent of train-
ing and including representatives from the directorate of research and devel-
opment and the directorate of pollution control. The committee will supervise
and coordinate all activities and logistical support related to the program
and would in turn report to the general project coordinator in CETESB.
4.20      Grants from PROCOP will also be made to CETESB for monitoring,
laboratory and research subprojects. CETESB plans to import automatic moni-
toring stations and related data processing systems to upgrade and expand its
river quality monitoring networks in the GSPA (para. 4.27). In addition
CETESB plans to upgrade its laboratory equipment and carry out some applied
research in fields related to the project. Subprojects to improve monitoring
and laboratories, and for research will also require studies to justify them
before Bank approval. These non-training subprojects are expected to cost
US$5.25 million of which US$2.7 million would be foreign exchange expenditures.
CETESB will receive budget allocations from the State Government to cover
local expenditures for these items as necessary. In total the State has
agreed to provide CETESB with not less than US$4.0 million equivalent to
cover the local cost of technical assistance (at least US$1.2 million equiv-
alent in each of 1980, 1981 and 1982, and the remainder in 1983).
F.   Subproject Eligibility Criteria
4.21      In light of the various technological alternatives possible for
air and water pollution control (paras. 3.14-3.15) under the proposed project,
the Bank would not limit its assistance to direct pollution control treatment
but would encourage industrial firms and participating local agencies to
consider alternative approaches to ensure optimum solutions for each individual
subproject. However, as state pollution control legislation requires that all
new productive investments comply with the existing air and water quality
standards, new firms and existing plants carrying out normal expansion programs
would be ineligible for financing. Hence, under the project, pollution control
financing will be extended only to existing private and public industrial
concerns that (i) decide to comply with the established pollution control
standards by undertaking treatment individually or jointly with other firms,
or by pretreating their effluents and emission discharges; (ii) will be
required by CETESB to relocate; and (iii) decide to comply with the estab-
lished pollution control standards by altering or changing their technological
or production process(es).
4.22      To prevent the subsidized financing of increased productivity and
profitablity, in the case of industrial concerns that will control pollution
by altering or changing their technological or production process(es), finan-
cing of industrial subprojects would be limited to the costs that would be



- 32 -
required to attain the pollution control targets through a least-cost direct
treatment or pretreatment solution. The costs of direct treatment or pretreat-
ment are fairly well known and will be determined by CETESB's technical staff.
Financing requests by BADESP for subprojects involving changes in technological
or production process(es) would be required to include either an analysis of
an alternative least-cost direct treatment or pretreatment, if any, and a
determination of the hypothetical cost of such solution (both to be prepared
by CETESB), or a statement from CETESB to the effect that there is no alterna-
tive solution which could be carried out at a lower investment cost.
4.23      For the same reasons as those given under paragraph 4.22 above,
financing of relocation subprojects resulting in increased production capacity
of the ultimate beneficiary would be limited to the hypothetical least cost
for establishing a plant of similar size and characteristics as the plant
to be relocated. For the purpose of the foregoing, the hypothetical least
cost shall be limited to the cost (hypothetical or real) of (i) dismantling,
moving and installing existing equipment at the new location; (ii) construction
or purchase of a building and equipment of similar size and characteristics as
those to be vacated and scrapped, respectively, reduced by the fair market
value (established by an independent appraiser) of the buildings to be vacated
and by the reasonable scrap value of equipment made obsolete as a result of
relocation; and (iii) pollution control equipment required to enable a plant
of the same size as the plant to be vacated to meet the relevant pollution
control requirements.
G.   Procurement and Disbursement
4.24      Procurement under the proposed loan is expected to involve equipment
purchases (46% of the total), civil works and installation contracting (34%),
permanent working capital (7.7%), and consulting services, including technical
assistance (11.6%). Based on the current capability and capacity of the
Brazilian manufacturers of pollution control equipment, as much as 85% of the
capital goods to be financed under the project would likely be produced locally.
As under other IDF-type operations, international competitive bidding would
not be suitable.   Because of their small size and proprietary nature, labora-
tory and monitoring equipment to be financed under the technical assistance
component of the loan would be procured by obtaining competitive quotations
from recognized international manufacturers. As technical agent of PROCOP,
CETESB would satisfy itself that goods and services procured for individual
subprojects are competitive in price and quality and have the technical
characteristics required to meet the state's air and water quality standards.
The major part (US$2.5 million) of the technical assistance component to be
financed by the Bank will consist of purchases by CETESB of imported laboratory
and monitoring equipment not manufactured in Brazil. Though CETESB will
retain full responsibility for the execution of the technical assistance
component, it is considering the use of PAHO as its agent to purchase foreign
equipment and services under a special agreement. Such an arrangement
might simplify the hiring and payment of foreign consultants, but runs the
risk of being bureaucratically cumbersome. CETESB agreed during negotiations



- 33 -
that whenever it shall hire the services of an institution such as PAHO, the
terms and the conditions for providing such services shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.25      Disbursements of the loan proceeds (Annex V, T-22) would vary
depending on the nature of the assisted subprojects as follows.
(i)  for air pollution control investments, Bank funds would cover the
lower of (a) 33% 1/ of the reasonable cost of goods, civil works,
services and spare parts required for the individual subprojects
in respect of which withdrawals from the loan account will be
requested, or (b) 100% of the subloans in respect of such
subprojects;
(ii)  for water pollution control investments Bank funds would cover
the lower of (a) 28% 1/ of the reasonable cost of goods, civil
works, services and permanent working capital (spare parts and
minimum stock of chemicals needed to operate the pollution
control systems) required for the individual subprojects in
respect of which withdrawals from the loan account will be
requested, or (b) 100% of the subloans in respect of such
subprojects; and
(iii)  for technical assistance, Bank funds would cover up to 100% of
such amounts as shall have been disbursed by the Fund to CETESB
to finance the foreign exchange costs of consulting services,
studies, research, training material, and laboratory and pollution
monitoring equipment required for executing the programs and
subprojects in respect of which assistance will be requested.
4.26      Detailed documentation for expenditures for individual operations
above the free limit would be submitted to the Bank.  Documentation for those
below the free limit would be retained by BADESP for inspection by their
independent auditors and by the Bank during the course of project supervision
missions. For technical assistance subprojects, disbursements would be made
against fully documented foreign exchange expenditures. In no case will
disbursements on subprojects exceed the amount of the subloan. Because the
involvement of two state agencies may extend the time needed for subproject
processing, the Bank would reimburse PROCOP for expenditures incurred no
more than 180 days prior to the date the Bank receives a subloan for review or
authorization to make withdrawal.
H.   Project Monitoring
4.27      Achievement of the project objectives will depend as much on CETESB's
enforcement of the state and federal pollution control legislation as on the
industrialists' effective use and maintenance of their pollution control systems.
1/   The above percentages represent the estimated average foreign exchange
component of these two subproject categories.



- 34 -
Although CETESB would commit itself under cooperative agreements with BADESP
and SABESP (para. 4.11) to supervise all subprojects periodically, this is not
likely to be sufficient unless CETESB is provided with appropriate tools to
assess ex-post the pollution control performance of individual subloan benefi-
ciaries. To that effect, during loan negotiations assurances were obtained
from CETESB and the state authorities that (i) water pollution control sub-
projects include, whenever appropriate, tamper-proof monitoring equipment which
permanently register the flow of liquid discharges and at least one key water
pollution parameter; and (ii) all air pollution control subprojects be subjected
annually to independent stack sampling. Moreover, to allow CETESB to assess
adequately the impact of the project and of its other water pollution control
programs on the quality of GSPA's major river basins, the Bank obtained assur-
ances from CETESB during loan negotiations that not later than September 30,
1981, it will carry out a study of the adequacy of its current river monitoring
network and assess its needs for additional or more sophisticated river
pollution monitoring equipment. This equipment could be financed under the
technical assistance component of the loan.
4.28      Given the special nature of the project and to help build up the
Bank's knowledge in a field in which it still has relatively little experience,
closer project supervision than for more traditional IDF operations is required.
Accordingly, a comprehensive monitoring system would be established with
periodic project reporting and frequent Bank supervision missions which,
during the early stages of project execution, would include environmental
pollution control specialists to help strengthen the performance of the
participating agencies.
V. PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
A. BADESP
Organization
5.01      Establishment and objectives.  The Banco de Desenvolvimento do
Estado de Sao Paulo (BADESP) was formed in 1970 in the State of Sao Paulo for
promoting and financing the development of agricultural and industrial enter-
prises, mainly by encouraging industrial growth in the less developed regions
of the state, stimulating private investments in the basic sectors of the
economy and supporting public infrastructure projects. In line with these
objectives BADESP undertakes term lending and equity financing and provides
guarantees in local and foreign exchange.
5.02      Ownership and relations with the state government.  As exclusive
shareholder of BADESP's share capital stock, the Sao Paulo state government
sets BADESP's major policies. However, it usually exercises this prerogative
indirectly through the regulations of several development funds on which BADESP
relies to sustain its operational growth. This modus operandi has helped
establish a reasonably effective working relationship between the local
authorities and BADESP's management, allowing the institution to participate



- 35 -
actively in the development of the Paulista economy. Overall, BADESP has
maintained a healthy balance between a close relationship with the state
authorities and reasonable operational autonomy.
5.03      Policy and decision-making councils.  BADESP is governed by an
assembly of shareholders assisted by a fiscal council. Management authority,
as with most other Brazilian state development banks, is delegated to a
collegial directorate, composed of five directors and BADESP's president.
Each director is responsible for the day-to-day operations of a functional
area and ranks equal with the president who serves as chairman of the board.
There is no chief executive with centralized power and responsibility for
operating decisions. These are taken by the directors as individuals. For
discussions on matters of policy, the directors meet as a board. The
president's operational responsibilities and influence are limited, since as
chairman he is not in charge of an operating area but is surrounded by staff
to advise him on policy.
5.04      Management and staff.  There are no minimum professional qualifica-
tions for the selection of directors or other high level staff and, being
political appointments, their quality varies. Terms normally match those of
the State Governor (four years), but actual turnover is often more frequent.
With the help of the Brazilian Association of Development Banks (ABDE) and
the federal government's National Development Bank (BNDE), BADESP is taking
steps to improve its management and technical capabilities. For this it has
set up specific staff training programs and its managers are attending manage-
ment training programs run by ABDE.
5.05      Over the past year BADESP's management has made a series of organi-
zational improvements to improve operational efficiency and performance and
to keep up with the operational growth of the institution. Among other things
this has resulted in a staff reduction from 550 at the beginning of 1977 to
483, about 42% of whom are professionals. Composed largely of young university
graduates, the professional staff is overall dedicated to the institution's
goals.
Organization Structure
5.06      BADESP is divided into five directorships in addition to the
president's office (Annex V-Cl). Three of these directorates are respon-
sible for operations, namely, agriculture, industry, and special operations
and commerce. The president's staff, except for the legal department, is made
up of advisors, mainly to handle public relations, the secretary function,
promotion and the press. These advisors have their own small staffs and
report directly to the president. The president's directorate is the largest
with 43 professionals, followed by the industrial directorate with 42, agricul-
ture with 40, special operations and commerce with 33, finance and accounting
with 31 and administration with 27. As administrator of PROCOP, BADESP would
be responsible for the credit analysis and supervision of borrowers (through
the special operations directorate) and subloan administration (by the finance
and accounting directorate). The quality of BADESP's staff and decision
making are considered acceptable to meet its responsibilities under the
project.



- 36 -
Operational Procedures and Practices
5.07      Appraisal.  While BADESP's appraisal standards and procedures are
satisfactory, they leave scope for improvement. There is a general need for
strengthening the techniques for assessing the technical viability of subproj-
ects. However, the weakest parts of BADESP's appraisals are in their financial
forecasts and economic evaluation which seldom include financial or economic
rate of return calculations. Appropriate steps are being taken by BADESP's
management to remedy these shortcomings. Among others, subproject appraisal
standards and criteria are being reviewed and improved and special training
programs to further strengthen BADESP's appraisal capability have been set up.
5.08      Supervision.  While BADESP adequately supervises subproject imple-
mentation, its follow-up activities beyond that stage are not yet fully
commensurate with the size of its portfolio. Follow-up could benefit from
(a) more systematic programming of supervision activities; (b) periodic
receipt and analysis of information on a larger number of clients; (c) in-the-
field supervision beyond visits to problem clients; and (d) systematic analysis
of subborrowers' financial position. BADESP's management is aware that its
clients have to be monitored more closely, as evidenced by the establishment
of a supervision department as part of BADESP's recent reorganization.
5.09      Procurement and disbursement.  BADESP has been making satisfactory
efforts to gauge adequacy and competitiveness of fixed assets purchases and is
building up its staff's technical expertise, partly since project appraisal
guidelines for subprojects financed through BNDE's credit lines require that
the technical process, machinery and equipment to be procured be justified
taking into account alternative processes and equipment.
5.10      BADESP has established formal disbursement procedures and control
of subproject expenditures. Overall disbursement procedures are adequate,
calling for periodic inspections during project implementation. Subloan
disbursements are mostly made in installments and are only authorized upon
satisfactory project progress and evidence that loan conditions have been met.
5.11      Internal and external audit.  BADESP is inspected at least once
a year by the Central Bank to ensure compliance with banking laws and regula-
tions.   However, these inspections do not cover all aspects of external
auditing procedures. In addition, BADESP has independent external auditors
(Boucinhas e Campos) who are satisfactory to the Bank. While the auditors are
to produce every six months a management report on internal control and short
form financial statements, they do not pass judgment on the quality of
BADESP's portfolio or loan collateral, the extent and coverage of foreign
exchange risk or the separation of short- and long-term liabilities and
assets. As part of its periodic reporting to the Bank under the project,
BADESP will be required to have its external auditor prepare annually a full
audit report following the standard format for DFCs associated with the Bank
and covering separately the operations of PROCOP. To ensure satisfactory
quality of these audits, ways to strengthen BADESP's financial reporting and
the auditors' work were reviewed with BADESP at negotiations. An internal
auditing division has recently been established with qualified staff. Their
work plan is being coordinated with and reviewed by the external auditors on a
regular basis.



- 37 -
Resources
5.12      In addition to its share capital, BADESP can raise funds by
(a) accepting fixed term deposits; (b) issuing bonds or debentures; (c) borrow-
ing abroad; (d) obtaining resources from official agencies; and (e) using
tied federal, state and municipal lines of credit and contributions. Alterna-
tives. (a) and (b) have not yet been used, because BADESP's normal lending
rates are insufficient to attract commercial funds in the local market. At
year-end 1978, 54.5% of BADESP's resources were provided by federal lines of
credit, about 62% of which came from BNDE, including FINAME and FINAC and the
rest from the Central Bank, the Caixa Economica Federal, BNH and FINEP. Only
about 11% of BADESP's lending has come from special trust funds established by
the state government. As for foreign borrowings, they accounted for only 3.4%
of BADESP's sources of funds. BADESP's excessive dependence on federal
sources of finance may have prevented it from developing a strong autonomous
identity within the local community and has resulted in limited operational
creativity and diversification. This has been particularly reflected in
BADESP's planning activities, where only recently was sufficient emphasis
given to promotion and development of programs specifically adapted to the
state development needs and economic characteristics.
Past Operations
5.13      In recent years BADESP's operations have risen sharply (Annex V -
T-19-20). Between year-end 1974-79 its aggregate loan portfolio grew from
Cr$1.4 billion to Cr$21.5 billion, an increase of about 270% in real terms.
Since inception about 5% of aggregate lending operations went for the agricul-
tural sector, 27% for industry and 68% for services and basic infrastructure.
Thus far, equity financing has been limited to a few investments in five
large state-owned corporations amounting to less than 0.5% of BADESP's total
assets. As of mid-1979 the outstanding loan portfolio was made up of 43% to
public sector companies, 38.5% to private industrial companies, 14% to service
sector companies and the rest to agriculture.
Financial Position and Results
5.14      Quality of portfolio and provisions for losses.  Reflecting steady
operational growth and a maturing portfolio, BADESP's arrears have risen
steadily in recent years. At year-end 1979, out of BADESP's 1,485 clients,
346 (23%) were delinquent and of these 46 involving outstanding obligations of
Cr$549 million were in liquidation. Arrears in principal and interest amounted
to Cr$2,847 million and affected 44% (Cr$9,871 million) of total portfolio.
In terms of aging, arrears above 90 days constituted the key factors behind
BADESP's poor portfolio quality as they involved 52% of all delinquent cases
and accounted for 93% of total arrears. A sectoral analysis of BADESP's
arrears position further revealed that its industrial portfolio had the
weakest arrears position with 28% of delinquent clients and 77% of loans
affected by arrears followed by the agriculture portfolio with 19% and 29%,
respectively, and the commerce and special operations portfolio with 24% and
23%, respectively. The major reasons for the much higher incidence of arrears
in the industrial sector seem to be: (a) the current recession in Brazil;



- 38 -
(b) the implications of the Government ongoing monetary policies on the
liquidity position of the industrial sector; (c) lending on shorter-than-
required terms; (d) lax supervision and collection procedures; and (e) usually
low penalties on overdue loans.
5.15      Due to the high quality of the collaterals secured on its loan
operations, BADESP has not yet incurred losses on liquidated operations.
Based on the last auditor's report, BADESP's current portfolio risks appear to
be sufficiently covered by provisions for doubtful loans which aggregated
Cr$549 million as of year-end 1979. However, BADESP's deteriorating portfolio
quality remains a cause for concern particularly in view of the fact that its
equity is currently frozen in arrears above 90 days. BADESP's management is
aware of this situation and is taking steps to prevent it from adversely
affecting the institution's liquidity position and operational growth perfor-
mance.
5.16      Financial structure.  Parallel to the expansion of BADESP's operations,
its Debt/Equity ratio rose form 4.8 in 1974 to 6.6 as of year-end 1979. Total
assets on the latter date amounted to Cr$22,697 million. In line with this
operational development and sustained demand for its financing, BADESP intends
to further increase its paid-in capital from the present Cr$1,335 million
level to Cr$2,335 million over the next two years. Loan negotiations to meet
these particular capital requirements are currently underway between the State
Government and BNDE. An analysis of BADESP's financial statements as of year-
end 1979 revealed a satisfactory current ratio of 2.6:1. However, due to its
arrearage position and the matching of subloan and borrowing maturities,
BADESP is having and will probably continue to have periodic cash flow diffi-
culties which through year end 1980 have been estimated at about Cr$460
million. The aforementioned share capital increase will help alleviate this
particular resource constraint.
5.17      Profitability.  BADESP's gross spread as a percentage of average
total assets (ATA) has slightly declined from 9.5% in 1974 to 8.2% at present.
At the same time its administrative expenses as a percentage of ATA also
declined from 2.9% to 1.8% on a higher volume of operations. As a result,
gross return on total equity increased gradually from 23% to 28% annually but
was barely sufficient to compensate for inflation. Net income after required
monetary correction on equity accounted to only Cr$4.9 million corresponding
to a net return on share capital of 0.3%.
B. CETESB
Organization
5.18      Establishment and objectives.  Pollution control in the GSPA origin-
ated with the Inter-Municipal Air and Water Pollution Control Commission
(CICPAA) which was organized in 1960 by the prefectures of the municipalities
of Santo Andre, Sao Bernardo do Campo, Sao Caetano do Sul and Maua. Funded
by these municipalities CICPAA received technical assistance from WHO during
its early years. In 1968 the State Secretariat of Public Works (SOMA) estab-
lished the State Basic Sanitation Fund (FESB) through the merger of a number



- 39 -
of laboratories to form a research and training center for sanitary engineering.
CICPAA cooperated with SOMA in that endeavor until it was absorbed by the
Superintendency of Environmental Sanitation (SUSAN), which was created in 1970
under the State Secretariat of Health specifically to control air pollution in
the State of Sao Paulo.
5.19      In 1973 FESB was transformed into an independent public enterprise,
the State Basic Sanitation Technology and Water Pollution Control Corporation
(CETESB), and granted greater financial and administrative autonomy. Following
its merger with SUSAM in 1975 CETESB became the state's environmental protec-
tion control agency. CETESB's objectives and legal attributes include, inter
alia: (i) enforcement of the state pollution control legislation; (ii) moni-
toring of air and water quality levels throughout the state; (iii) research
and development of pollution control technology; (iv) establishment of quality
standards for pollution control equipment; and (v) technical assistance and
training for the personnel of agencies in charge of water and sewerage treat-
ment plants.
Organization, Management and Staff
5.20      CETESB has a board of directors composed of the company's president
and five department heads. The president of CETESB reports to the State
Secretary of Public Works and Environment. Meeting once a week, the board
members establish internal operation policies and procedures, and assure
adequate coordination among the company's various departments and ongoing
pollution control programs.
5.21      Overall, CETESB is an efficiently run and well organized institution
(Annex V - C2). Its staff of 2,361 at the end of 1979 included 800 profes-
-sionals. CETESB has been careful to assure and continuously upgrade the
technical capability of its staff. Most middle managers have advanced degrees
from foreign universities, and seminars are held often to assure adequate
diffusion of knowledge relevant to CETESB's activities.
5.22      Two of CETESB's operational departments--namely the Directorate of
Research and Development, Analytical Services and Training, and the Directorate
of Pollution Control--carry out the bulk of the company's pollution control
activities. The Directorate of Air Engineering and Metropolitan Action and
its Superintendencies of License Administration and of Control of Sources of
Environmental Pollution will be responsible for the technical appraisal and
supervision of subprojects under the proposed Bank project. All applications
for installation and operation of productive facilities are reviewed by the
Superintendency of License Administration, which grants licenses only when the
applicant firms meet the state air and water quality standards. Once it is
determined that existing or new industries create or will create environmental
pollution, they are required to install pollution control systems, the charac-
teristics of which must be reviewed and approved by the Superintendency of
Pollution Control Engineering.
5.23      Operational procedures currently followed by the two superintenden-
cies are satisfactory and their technical capacity is adequate with a staff
of 118 professionals. Nevertheless, some strengthening will be needed in



- 40 -
CETESB to ensure satisfactory technical processing of the large number of
subprojects expected under the project. First, CETESB's staff has had little
or no exposure to environmental and engineering economics and project cost
analysis. Also, in its project engineering CETESB has neglected to include in
the control systems source testing and continuous monitoring dz-fces to assure
long-term compliance during normal operation. Finally, the lack of a compre-
hensive corrective pollution control program has kept project analysts from
building up experience through a systematic review of alternative correc-
tive control systems (e.g., process change vs. end-of-pipe treatment) often
available to individual firms. To remedy these shortcomings, funds would be
provided to CETESB under the technical assistance component of the project to
finance training programs covering, inter alia, corrective pollution control
technology and control project design and analysis, pollution monitoring and
emission source testing, engineering economics, project cost analysis and
environmental economics (para. 4.19).
Pollution Control Activities
5.24      Reflecting the lack of appropriate state pollution control legisla-
tion before 1976, CETESB's activities were heavily oriented toward developing
pollution control and sanitary engineering technology. Pollution control
enforcement was limited to responding to specific citizen complaints. Never-
theless, CETESB has been instrumental in developing and diffusing pollution
control technology in Brazil with its major impact covering four areas:
(i) applied research in pollution control technology; (ii) training of the
engineering personnel of government agencies, consulting firms and some
private industry throughout Brazil; (iii) providing technical support, includ-
ing approval of engineering programs for the National Sanitary Plan (PLANASA)
throughout Brazil; and (iv) monitoring environmental quality and developing
plans of action for improving the environment in the State of Sao Paulo.
5.25       Continuous monitoring of water quality levels throughout the state
and over one million laboratory analyses have provided the basis for, among
others: (i) development and design by SABESP of the SANEGRAN project for the
GSPA; and (ii) development by CETESB of models to establish criteria for the
location of new industry and programs for preservation of the quality of five
major water basins. In the GSPA, CETESB operates a network of 27 air sampling
stations, including two mobile units. This monitoring network, the first of
its kind in Brazil, has been instrumental in implementing and evaluating
Brazil's program of utilizing a fuel mixture for vehicles (para. 3.31).
5.26       Although meaningful enforcement activities started only during the
last two years since State Law 997 was passed, CETESB has been quick to
respond to its new responsibilities. A reorganization early in 1977 placed
CETESB in a position to assume effectively its enforcement functions. Since
then it has made significant progress towards alerting industry to the need to
comply with pollution legislation. Between November 1976, when the licensing
system for new pollution sources went into effect, and since 1979, CETESB
issued 10,450 installation licenses for new industrial plants and expansion
projects, and for residential developments. During 1978 CETESB's enforcement
division made 5,507 detailed technical inspections in the field to over 1,200



- 41 -
industrial firms, and issued 1,165 infraction warnings requiring companies to
reduce specific pollution violations. Also during 1978, the engineering
divisions reviewed 502 and authorized 462 preventive and corrective air and
water pollution projects presented by industry.
C. SABESP
Organization
5.27      Establishment and objectives.  The third agency participating in
the proposed project will be Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao
Paulo (SABESP). Created in December 1973 by the amalgamation of several state
companies, 1/ SABESP is now the largest state water company in Brazil. It is
well known to the Bank through Loans 757/758-BR of June 1971 and the recently
approved Loan 1525-BR for which it is the executing agency.
5.28      SABESP's primary institutional purpose is to carry out the National
Sanitation Plan (Plan Nacional de Saneamento - PLANASA) in the State of Sao
Paulo, with its main operational objectives being to provide: (i) water supply
to 80% of the population in about 460 urban communities in the State of Sao
Paulo by 1980; (ii) water supply to 90% of the population by 1980, and sewage
collection and treatment to 88% of the population of the metropolitan Sao
Paulo area by the year 2000; and (iii) a more simple sewage collection and
proper disposal program for the rest of the state. To the extent that SABESP's
sewage collection system can receive and process industrial waste effluents,
it plays a key role in the implementation of CETESB's strategy to control
industrial water pollution.
5.29      Ownership and administrative council.  SABESP is fully owned by the
State of Sao Paulo. It is headed by a six-member administrative council which
is appointed for a four-year term by the State Governor and has proven to be
an efficient body following closely SABESP's institutional and operational
developments.
5.30      Organization, management and staff.  In its early years SABESP
suffered from a relatively poor financial position, incompetent management,
poor organization and heavy overstaffing which it inherited through the
consolidation process in connection with its creation. Appointed in 1975,
SABESP's latest administration has remedied most of these constraints. Great
strides have been made in planning, cost control, management information
and personnel training. With 12,500 employees, SABESP currently has adequate
human resources to carry out its operational responsibilities, including
its role under the proposed loan.
1/   COMASP - Cia. Metropolitana de Agua de Sao Paulo; SANESP - Cia.
Metropolitana de Saneamento de Sao Paulo; SAEC - Superintendencia de Agua
e Esgoto da Capital; and FESB - Fomento Estadual de Saneamento Basico.



- 42 -
5.31      SABESP is organized in five departments (Planning, Construction,
Operation, Finance, and Administration) (Annex V - C3). The construction
department is well organized and is an efficient unit. Since 1975 it has
undertaken a massive work program for the GSPA and the rest of the state which
is 70% completed. The planning department, which is to provide assistance to
CETESB under the proposed project, is staffed by approximately 100 high level
engineers and economists. This department would be responsible for providing
CETESB with the information on effluent quality and volume standards and the
timing of sewer construction needed for implementing its water pollution
control strategy (para. 3.25).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      Although relatively modest in size and scope, the proposed project
would provide a government response to the increasing popular demand for
actions to reduce air and water pollution levels and reverse the process of
environmental deterioration in the GSPA. While the project's social and
economic benefits are not readily quantifiable, they should be substantial.
Most importantly, the project would improve the health and living conditions
of the population, notably of the low income groups living near industrialized
areas and contaminated rivers and ground water sources. Such improvement
would be felt primarily through a decrease in the incidence of respiratory,
cardio-vascular and water borne and water-related diseases. This would have a
synergetic impact on the community as a whole, reducing infant mortality,
increasing life expectancy, decreasing the costs of medical care, improving
labor productivity, and inducing greater utilization of outdoor recreational
facilities and green spaces.
6.02      The water pollution control component would fit the general objec-
tives of PLANASA, adopted by the state government in 1977 under the master
plan for sewage collection and treatment in the GSPA, complementing the first
phase of that program by providing financing for industries to install the
pretreatment facilities required for the firms' connection to the general
sewerage system. As only sewage containing no toxic or harmful wastes can be
biologically treated, failure or delay of industries to take corrective
measures to prevent the discharge of untreated industrial effluents into the
SANEGRAN system would jeopardize the operational effectiveness and full
utilization of the planned treatment plants. By assisting industries to
treat their effluents and connect to SANEGRAN, the project would also decrease
the negative impact of water pollution on the local economy outlined in
para. 2.27.
6.03      Institution building would also be an important project benefit.
Through the technical assistance component, CETESB could acquire the additional
laboratory and monitoring equipment and contract the necessary foreign consul-
tancy services to further build up its capability in pollution control tech-
nology, project design and analysis, pollution monitoring and emission source



- 43 -
testing, and engineering and environmental economics. Special training,
seminars and conferences should make the industrial sector more cognizant of
and receptive to the issues surrounding environmental pollution in the GSPA.
Finally, the transfer of foreign expertise and technology through these
technical assistance programs and activities should help to improve the local
manufacturing capacity for pollution control equipment.
6.04      The proposed project would constitute the Bank's first concerted
effort to help control environmental pollution in Latin America and would
indicate the Bank's increased emphasis on environmental protection and interest
in programs aimed at improving the environment. By assisting the local
authorities to tackle one of Sao Paulo's most important urban and industrial
development problems, the Bank would also acquire (i) detailed knowledge
about industrial water and air pollution control costs and benefits; and
(ii) experience in the design and implementation of regionally integrated
pollution control programs. This experience should be useful for possible
future pollution control projects elsewhere.
B. Project Risks
6.05      Since most pollution control subprojects have highly negative
internal financial rates of return and given the fact that in Brazil invest-
ments in a number of industrial subsectors have been declining in recent
months, opposition by the industrialists to such non-profitable "forced"
investments could slow down project execution. To reduce this risk,
during project preparation the Bank and the local authorities reviewed
with representatives of the industrial community key technical and financing
characteristics of the project. Finally, CETESB (para. 4.18) will organize
special programs, including training and promotional campaigns, to inform
industrialists about the costs, benefits and operational implications of
industrial pollution control.
6.06      Given the above risk, pollution control enforcement will largely
depend on the political support that the participating agencies, particularly
CETESB, will receive from the state and federal governments. Thus far, this
support has been forthcoming.
6.07      Execution of the water pollution control component of the project
could be adversely affected in those areas where river rectification and
canalization requirements and interferences with heavy motorized traffic may
delay the implementation of SANEGRAN. To minimize that risk, which is con-
sidered moderate, the state government agreed under Loan 1525-BR to set up a
special mechanism involving representatives from all relevant state institu-
tions to coordinate with SABESP the execution of SANEGRAN. In addition, BNH
has allocated financial resources to the Municipality of Sao Paulo to carry
out a river rectification program coordinated by SABESP.



- 44 -
6.08      Finally, project execution will also depend on the ability of the
participating agencies to cooperate smoothly and efficiently. Therefore,
PROCOP's activities will be directed by a high level committee involving
representatives of all the state secretariates and agencies relevant to
project execution (para. 4.08) and detailed interagency cooperative agreements
acceptable to the Bank will be signed between CETESB and BADESP and CETESB and
SABESP prior to loan effectiveness (para. 4.11).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached
7.01      During loan negotiations, the following agreements or assurances
were reached:
(a)  With the Federal Government and the Sao Paulo State Government
(i)   on the expenditures eligible for Bank financing (para. 4.21-
4.23); and the onlending terms and conditions of the proposed
loan, including interest charges and related review mechanism,
and fees to the participating agencies (paras 4.06 and 4.12
to 4.15);
(ii) that no later than September 30, 1981 or when US$27.0 million
of subloans have been approved, whichever comes first, the
Bank shall have the right to suspend further commitments
of Bank funds until it has satisfied itself that the actions
taken by the federal government in the state of Sao Paulo
under the federal pollution control legislation are not
adversely affecting the achievement of the objectives of the
Sao Paulo state's air and water pollution control strategies
(para. 3.02); and
(iii)  that during the execution of the project they will promptly
furnish to the Bank all such information on the actions referred
to under (i) above as the Bank shall reasonably request so as to
maintain with the Brazilian authorities a continuous policy
dialogue on the subject (para. 3.02);
(b)  With the Sao Paulo State Government on
(i) the expansion of the membership and amendment of the by-laws
of FESB's steering committee (para. 4.08);
(ii)  the operational policies and initial capitalization of PROCOP
(para. 4.06);



- 45 -
(iii) the necessary amendments needed in the existing state pollution
legislation, (para. 3.08); effluent standards for pretreatment
and treatment of industrial wastes, and the classification of
water systems and rivers in the GSPA (para. 3.13); and
(iv)  contribution, as needed, of US$75.2 million to the financing
plan and additional resources if needed to complete Bank
disbursements (para. 4.05).
(c)  With BADESP AND BNDE on
(i)  subproject appraisal and processing, free-limit arrangements
and disbursement and procurement procedures (paras. 4.15, 4.17
and 4.25 to 4.26); and
(ii)  financial reporting and annual auditing requirements under
the project (para. 5.11);
(d)  With CETESB on
(i)  a revised particulate matter pollution control strategy
(para. 3.35);
(ii)  a comprehensive training program for subprojects for its
technical staff and the nature, scope and timing of the
technical assistance subprojects and programs (paras.
4.17-4.20);
(iii) the carrying out of a systematic industrial survey in the
GSPA (para. 3.22); and a study to assess its needs for
water pollution control monitoring equipment (para. 4.27);
(iv)  the inclusion of tamper-proof monitoring equipment in
water pollution subprojects (para. 4.27);
(v)  the submission of all air pollution control subprojects
to periodic emission source testing (para. 4.27);
(vi)  the carrying out by September 30, 1981 of a study on the
adequacy of its river pollution monitoring network including
an assessment of its needs for additional monitoring
equipment (para. 4.27).
(e) With CETESB and BADESP on
(i) minimum subproject appraisal requirements (para. 4.15);
(ii) periodic project reporting to the Bank (para. 4.28); and



- 46 -
(iii) an inter-agency cooperative agreement outlining procedures
to be followed by both institutions under the project (para.
4.11);
(f)  With CETESB and SABESP on
(i)  the water pollution control strategy to be followed under
the proposed project (para. 3.25); and
(ii)  a cooperative agreement outlining procedures to be followed
under the project and determining pollution control responsi-
bilities of each institution within SANEGRAN (para. 4.11).
7.02      Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a)  BNDE, the Sao Paulo State Government and BADESP enter into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank;
(b)  the Sao Paulo state Government
(i) amend Article 88 of Decree No. 8468 dealing with the
application of sanctions to polluters (para. 3.08);
(ii)  provide PROCOP with an initial minimum capital base of
US$5 million equivalent (para. 4.06);
(iii)  have PROCOP's steering committee approve the by-laws which
will make possible the operation of PROCOP (para. 4.06);
and
(iv)  sign with BNH a US$25.8 million equivalent loan under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.05).
(c) BADESP and CETESB sign a cooperative agreement satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.11).
7.03      Special conditions for disbursements would be:
(i)  for air pollution control subprojects the issuance
of the particulate matter emission standards needed to
initiate a corrective particulate matter pollution
control program for each relevant industrial subsector
in the GSPA (para. 3.35); and
(ii)  for water pollution control subprojects (a) amendment of
Decree No. 8468 which sets forth the effluent standards;
and (b) signing of a cooperative agreement satisfactory to
the Bank between CETESB and SABESP (para 4.11).



- 47 -
B. Recommendations
7.04      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a loan of
US$58 million to the State of Sao Paulo with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil on the terms and conditions outlined in Chapter IV.



-48-                          ANNEX I
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Proposed Industrial Water Pretreatment Strategy for the GSPA-
1.        A key step in the development of an effective water pollution enforcement
program or plan of action is the establishment of priorities for pollution control.
In establishing priorities at least three basic requirements must be met: (i) compila-
tion of an inventory of polluting industrial plants; (ii) classification of the plants
by type of pollutant(s); and (iii) establishment of objectives or criteria upon which
the priorities will be based.
2.        The preliminary plan of action recommended by the mission for enforcement
of the existing water pollution control legislation in the GSPA is based on the follow-
ing set of priorities (see Attachment 1 and 2 for details).
Enforcement Priorities
Toxic and/or              Less toxic or
dangerous pollutants    non-toxic but
/Effluent               in effluent either        with possible
for sewer pipes or       interference
treatment plants of       effects,on the
the activated sludge    SANEGRAN system
Plant/                                          type.                     treatment plants.
i.   Connected or to
be connected to                                        f ]
the SANEGRAN                                            A 1±I                    B1
network before                                     (Pretreatmnent)            (Pretreatment)
start-up of the
SANEGRAN treat-
ment plants.
2.   Not to be connected to
SANEGRAN network, or to be
connected after start of                                A2                       B 2
the SANEGRAN treatment
plants, but affecting Class
I, II or III waters.                           (Pretreatment and biological type
treatment, the latter when necessary
and only if plants are not to be
connected to SANEGRAN).
3.   Idem 2, but                                                                      _
affecting Class                                                                   B 3
IV waters only.                                                                _
(On a case by case
basis)
3.        In setting the above priorities: (i) the 403 plants included in CE'I'ESB's
initial survey of water polluters in the CSPA were classified by type of effltucnt and
thie degree of toxicity and/or potential for initerferenice of the contaminants witlh the
SANEGRAN system; and (ii) it was assumed that protection of the SANECGRN system was
a key objective.
D Draft.



ANNEX I
_ 49 *
4,        It should be clear that the above is subject to further refinement based
on the following;
(i)   a more complete inventory of polluting industrial plants, including
quantification of the amount of the different pollutants being discharged
by each. Priorities should be based on how the effluents of each polluter
affect the concentration of pollutants in the water bodies.
(ii)   a time schedule for implementation of the SANEGRAN system to allow
further refinement of priorities within the Al and Bl categories; and
(iii)   a clearer definition of SANEGRAN's scope through the year 2000 to allow
determination of what industrial plants in the A2 and B2 categories
should install the much more costly full treatment facilities.



ANNEX I
Attachment 1
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Types of Industry, Main Pollutant and Priority
Type of Industry                                  Main   Priority  Observations
Pollutant
Mining and non rnetallic mineraLs:                Suspended Solids
(cement, asbest-cement, bricks,
glass, ceramics)                                              B
M' ta Lur-i-c
(Siderurgical, electroplatin, foundries         Metalli.c
(smeltery), metallic constructions)            Cyanides       A
Oils
Metal Mechanics
(Agricultural equipment, electric home          Acids                  Except for some indust-
appliatnces, metallic construction,            Oils                   ries with electroplat-
metal furniture)                               Suspended       B      ing.
Solids
Electric material and communication
(Electric cables, transformers, television  PCB                        PCB arc poli-
sets, radio sets, electric accessories)        Phenols        A       clhloriniated
Oils                   biphenils
-ranpsortation10
(cars, radiators, axis, elastics,               Oils
impressions, pieces)                           Suspended Solids
Acids          B
Color
Inrganic Cheinis_r
I   _  _ry.   _,  Le-  _    
(clhloride, salt processes,                    Metals
anticorrosive arseniates)                      Ammoniii        A
Organiic Clhemistry
(stains, plastics, fertilizers,                 phenols
paint, refincries)                             Ammonia         A
Sulpihuri
lest icides



- 51-                        ANNEX I
Attachment 1
Type of lndustr:                                   Main        Priority Observations
Pol] utant
Pharmaceutical and Relation
(soaps, detergeILts, cosmetics,                  Detergents
laboratories, medicines)                        Oil.s              B
Microorganisms
Rubber
(tyres, rubber covering)                         Sulphides
Phenols           A
Paper
(pulp, paper, kraft)                             Flotables         B (with furnace)
Organic            A (without furnaceY
with deficiencies        "Witih furnace"
Suspended Solids         means the
process includes
the black liquor
furnace
Textiles
(spinning, wool textiles, nylon                  Sulphides
textiles, rayon, cotton,                        Acids
lavatories)                                     Oils
Organics
Color             A
Nutrition
(packing lhouse, mi.lls, dairies, oil            Organics
sliops, sugar lhouses, coffee, drinks)         Suspended Solids B
Flotab]es
Othiers
(tannerics, coke (gas), petrochiemistry)         Plienols
Metals
Sulpliides
Ammonia
Flotables         A



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 2
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Strategy for Subproject Selection
Classification                                         Type of Industry
AI                   Metallurgical, Electrical and Inorganic Chemicals, Organic
Chemicals, Rubber, Textiles, Tanneries, Gas, Petrochemicals
(connected or to be connected before starting corresponding
SANEGRAN plants)
AII                  Idem, Al (not connected before starting corresponding
SANEGRAN plants)
Reason for A         Dangerous pollutants in effluent either for pipes or
Classification       treatment plants of activated sludge type.
BI                   Non Metallic Minerals, Mechanical, Transportation, Pharmaceuticals
and Related, Pulp and Paper *, Food including Beverage, Milk processinj
Edible oils, Sugar, Coffee (connected or to be connected before
corresponding SANEGRAN plants)
(Treatment do not include biological type)
BII                  Idem, DI (not connected before starting corresponding SANEGRAN
plants but affecting Class II or III waters - biological type
treatment if plants are not to be connected to SANEGRAN.
BIII                 Same as BII but affecting only Class IV waters) (Treatment depend-
ing of special studies in each case).
* Supposed to lhave black liquor furnace or equivalent measure; if not, transferred
corresponding A category. Must consult air pollution sector.



- 53 -                               ANNEX II
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Examples of Assistance Provided by OECD Countries
for Environmental Pollution Control
The Polluter-Pays Principle
1.        The Polluter-Pays Principle is generally considered to be a sound policy
tending to ensure optimum allocation of resources. However, while environmental
objectives aim at improving the standard of welfare, the criteria for determining
the actual level of welfare involve not only economic considerations, but also
ecological, sociological, geographical and other factors. In other words, conflicts
often arise between environmental and other policy objectives such as maintaining
and increasing the level of employment, both nationally and regionally, income
distribution and continued rapid economic growth.
2.        Recognizing the above, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD), which adheres to the Polluter-Pays Principle, "notes that
there is a close relationship between a country's environmental policy and its
overall socio-economic policy," and "that.. .socio-economic problems may develop of
such significance as to justify consideration of the granting of economic assistance
if the environmental policy objectives...are to be realized within a prescribed and
specified time." 1/
3.        The OECD further "recommends that the granting of any.. .assistance for
pollution control be limited, and in particular comply with every one of the follow-
ing conditions: (a) it should be selective and restricted to those parts of the
economy, such as industries, areas or plants, where severe difficulties would
otherwise occur; (b) it should be limited to well-defined transitional periods, laid
down in advance and adapted to the specific socio-economic problems associated with
the implementation of a country's environmental programme; and (c) it should not
create significant distortions in international trade and investment."
4.        The United States has legislated a wide variety of instruments to assist
industry in its efforts to control pollution. Some of the assistance like tax credits
and accelerated depreciation is given across-the-board to all industrial firms making
pollution control investments, but assistance is also provided to specific areas and
companies (e.g. some states provide sales, use and property tax exemptions, and Small
Business Administration loans). In addition, there is a wide variety of assistance
given or exemptions made on a case-by-case basis (e.g., lower fees charged to small
industrial firms by some municipal sewage treatment plants, and relaxation of standards
or delays in their enforcement when there is fear that strict compliance would place
an industry at a competitive disadvantage, such as in the case of the steel industry
vis-a-vis Japan). More specifically, under the EPA's financial assistance programs: 2/
(a) The Small Business Administration (SBA) was, as of May 1977, providing
small firms with pollution control financing at 6.6% for up to 30 years.
These terms are significantly better than those for SBA's standard loans.
To qualify, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) must certify that
the equipment for which the loan is requested will be sufficient to bring
the firm in compliance with the applicable environmental regulations.
1/ "OECD and the Environment", Paris, 1976, page 50.
2/ EPA, "Financial Assistance Programs for Pollution Prevention and Control Available
through the Federal Government", EPA, Washington, D.C., May 1977.



_54                             ANNEX II
(b)   Tax exempt Industrial Development Bonds (IDBs) to help companies
obtain financing necessary to meet Federal pollution control require-
ments have been extensively utilized by large businesses.
(c)   SBA guaranteed Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, which are essentially
the same as IDBs, but are in addition guaranteed by the SBA and provide
for a mechanism to allow small firms to obtain this type of pollution
control financing at lower interest costs.
(d)   The Economic Development Administration (EDA) providing business develop-
ment loans at 7.9% as of May 1977 (revised quarterly to reflect US
Government borrowing costs) for up to 25 years. Although these loans
are not specifically related to pollution control, the business develop-
ment loan program can indirectly help firms to install pollution control
equipment. For example, if a firm does not meet federal environmental
regulations, is located in a low growth area as designated by the EDA,
and there is the likelihood that the firm would be shut down and jobs
lost for noncompliance of environmental regulations, the firm may be
eligible for an EDA business development loan.
5.        The above are only four specific examples of the many pollution control invest-
ment incentives available to U.S. industry. Identifying and listing all available
incentives would be a major task, as they range from the important tax incentives to
such minor items as the EPA regulations for the "Low Noise Emission Product Program"
under which the Federal Government will pay a bonus of as much as 25% in its purchase
of trucks, air compressors, and other products that are "especially quiet." 2/
6.        In Japan assistance to private enterprise seems to be limited to investments
and is given in the form of tax benefits and favorable interest rate loans. There are
a number of tax incentives for pollution control of which the most important seems a 50%
special depreciation in the first year for pollution control equipment. "Shortened
depreciation" for sewage, smoke and soot treatment equipment, and deductions (e.g.,
a "special reserve fund" for enterprises with specially large pollution control costs
or large reduction in profits) are also allowed. 2/
7.        Of far more importance to Japanese industry are a number of favorable
interest rate loan facilities. These loans play an important role in Japan because:
(i) debt-to-equity ratios in Japan are much higher on average than in other countries,
and Japanese enterprises are thus more dependent on loans for their investments; and
(ii) the interest rates at which these loans are granted are significantly lower than
market rates. In 1975, when market rates were 9.1%, four institutions (the Small
Business Finance Corporation, the People's Finance Corporation, the Japanese Develop-
ment Bank, and the Environmental Pollution Control Service Corporation) granted 319
billion yen in loans with interest rates that ranged from 6.85% to 8% p.a. The OECD
made a rough estimate of the 1975 "subsidy equivalent" (the sum of the discounted values
of the differences in interest to be paid) of the interest rates, and which at 37 billion
yen represented about 12% of the amount of loans granted and 2.6% of the total pollution
control investment made by private industry.
1/ Council on Environmental Quality, "Eighth Annual Report", Washington, D.C.
December 1977, page 58.
2/ OECD, "Environmental Policies in Japan", OECD, Paris, 1977.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
8.        The same OECD study also compares Japanese assistance to private
industry with that provided by other selected member countries during 1975,
several of which provide substantially higher incentives:
Subsidy-Equivalent of Assistance Schemes as a Percentage of
Private Anti-Pollution Investments, 1975
(Percent)
Japan                                          2.8
Germany                                        9.1
Netherlands (1974)                             1.1
Norway                                        14.2
Sweden                                         5.3
U.S.A.                                         4.5
9.        In Sweden, the Environment Protection Act came into force in 1969.
"In the explanatory comments accompanying the Act, it was emphasized that
sinceit is, in general, both technically more difficult and economically
more costly to reduce emissions from old plants, it would be justified to
allow these plants some time for adjustment. In order to induce firms to
undertake the necessary control measures as soon as possible, the government
decided to subsidize investments for environmental quality control by existing
industrial and municipal plants". 1/ Existing plants could apply for a
subsidy of an amount not exceeding 25% of the capital expenditures for the
control measure. In order to be eligible for a subsidy, the investment had to
be of "importance to the general public". The subsidization program was
planned to be in operation for a period of five years. Since then, however,
it has been extended and the degree of subsidy increased (up to 75% subsidies
in some cases) between 1971-74 to stimulate the Swedish economy and to avoid
a slowdown in pollution control investments.
10.       Finland had, at the time of Bank appraisal of the 1975 Water Pollution
-Control Project (Loan 1109-FI), tax benefits (four year depreciation), a loan
guarantee program, and interest rate subsidies (6.5% to 7.5% compared to 9.75%
market rates at the time), to assist private industry's pollution control
investments. The interest rate subsidy was deemed desirable by the Government
in order to get the fullest cooperation from industry in the national
pollution control program and to assist in financing investments with a social
impact.
1/ OECD, "Environmental Policy in Sweden", OECD, Paris, 1977, page 106.



- 56 -                          ANNEX III
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Standard Subproject Appraisal Format
1.     This annex provides a standard subproject appraisal formal to assist
CETESB and BADESP in coordinating their respective project appraisal activities
under the State Pollution Control Fund. The list of project appraisal topics
provided within this format should only be. viewed as general guidelines for
carrying out the technical financial and economic analysis of the individual sub-
projects submitted for financing under the aforementioned Fund. As such this list
is not restrictive nor exhaustive but will require adjustments on a case by case
basis by CETESB and BADESP's appraisal staff which will depend on the nature, loca-
tion, complexity, size and other characteristics of the individual pollution control
subprojects. In particular, for subprojects outside the Greater Sao Paulo metro-
politan area, appraisal reports will have to include evidence to enable the Bank to
determine in each case whether or not the subprojects for which assistance is
requested are included in a state pollution control program for the area(s) where
these subprojects are located. For subprojects involving changes in technological
or productive processes, appraisal reports will have to include in each case either
an analysis 1/ of an alternative least-cost solution and a determination 1/ of the
hypothetical investment cost of such solution or, whenever appropriate, a statement 1/
to the effect that there is not an alternative solution which could be carried out
at a lower cost. For relocation subprojects resulting in an increased production
capacity of the ultimate beneficiary, appraisal reports will have to include in
each case a detailed estimate of the hypothetical least cost for establishing
a plant of similar size and characteristics as the plant to be relocated (Section
2.02 of the Loan Agreement).
2.     CETESB's contributions to the appraisal of individual pollution control
subprojects is defined by an (*) among topics enumerated in the proposed standard
project appraisal format. In reviewing the technical characteristics of the
subprojects for which financing is sought under the Fund, CETESB will have to ensure
that (i) goods and services procured for individual subprojects are competitive in
price and quality, (ii) equipment and pollution control systems to be procured not
only have the technical characteristics required to meet the State's pollution
control standards but offer the "least cost" approach to achieving such standards.
1. Sunmmary and Recommendations
1.1 Summary and conclusions
- Brief description of the pollution control project.
- Project costs and financing summary.
- Project appraisal (technical and financial) conclusions.
1.2 Recommendations
- Project eligibility under the State Pollution Control Fund-
- Recommended Financing terms and conditions.
- Special credit conditions.
1/ To be prepared by CETESB.



ANNEX III
- 57 -
2. The Borrower
2.1 General References
- Basic data (name, address, operational purpose, year of
establishment, legal status,....)'
- Distribution and analysis of ownership.
- Business and banking references.
- Past business relationship with BADESP, if any.
2.2 Organization and Management
- Directorship and top executives (assessment of business experience
and professional capacity).
- Administrative and organizational diagnostic (evaluation of existing
organizational arrangements, internal systems and controls, production
control and management, marketing systems....).
2.3 Past Financial Performance
- Detailed analysis of the borrower's past and current financial
statements.
- Assessment of the evolution of the borrower's profitability,
financial position and leverage.
3. The Project
*3.1 Current Industrial Facilities and Production Processes.
-  Detailed description of the enterprise's manufacturing processes and
other related industrial activities.
*3.2 The Pollution (air or water) Problem-
- Detailed description of the source (s) of environmental pollution
(location, characteristics, extent, contributing factors, level....).
- Assessment (qualitative and quantitative) of the impact of the
indentified pollution on the environment, population and economy.
*3.3 The Proposed Pollution Control Project
- Technical description of the project.
- Technical justification of the project.
- List, characteristics and evaluation of pollution control equipment
and systems envisaged for the project.
- Assessment of yearly maintenance and other operational costs for the project
- Total cost estimates of the project subdivided by project items (Technical
assistance and other services, civil works, installation, equipment,
permanent working capital) and origin of goods and services to be purchased
(locally produced or imported).
- Detailed forecast physical and financial implementation of the projects
- Expected environmental impact (particularly quantitative) of the project.



ANNEX III
- 58 -
- Impact (positive or negative) of the project on the enterprise's
productive capacity (identification of eventual by-products).
- Technical risks, if any, of the project.
*3.4 Least-cost Alternative 1/
- Technical description of the least-cost alternative.
- Hypothetical investment costs of the least-cost alternative subdivided
by investment items (Technical assistance, civil works, installation,
equipment, permanent working capital.
*3.5 Relocation subprojects including expansion of production capacity
- Estimate of the hypothetical least cost (as defined in Section 2.02
of the loan agreement) for establishing a plant oci similar size and
characteristics as the plant to be relocated.
4.       The Borrower's Expected Financial Performance
4.1 Forecast Financial Performance
- Analysis of the enterprise's forecast financial statements-
- Analysis of the enterprise's forecast profitability, financial
position, leverage and other key financial and related operational
indicators.
4.2 Creditworthiness of the Borrower
- Assessment of the Borrower's future debt/service coverage-
- Analysis of the guarantees offered by the Borrower.
- Assessment of the overall creditworthiness of the Borrower.
- Identification of any special condition which should be required
by the State Pollution Control Fund to provide financing to the
proposed pollution control project.
5. Annexes and Tables
-    Annexes and Tables should be detailed enough to support the analysis,
conclusions and recommendations presented in the main body of the report.
1/ To be prepared by CETESB.



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Standard Format for Research Proposals
This annex provides a standard format for CETESB to present research subprojects to
the Fund's Steering Committee and the Bank for approval. The format was informally
agreed to during negotiations.
I. TITLE PAGE
1. Title of proposal.
2. Name of principal investigator.
3. Title of investigator's position.
4. Investigator's department and immediate supervisor.
5. Estimated project period, give beginning and estimated ending
dates of research project.
6. Location of research.
7. Signature of principal investigator with date.
8. Signature of CETESB project coordinator with date.
9. Authorization by Fund Orientation Committee with date.
II. INTRODUCTION
Brief overview of the problem and scope of proposed approach.
III. LITERATURE REVIEW
Review of relevant research previously done by others.
1. Name authors, titles and dates of relevant research from
nationally and internationally recognized publications.
2. Discuss and evaluate the above in releation to the proposed research.
IV. RESEARCH OBJECTIVES
Specific aims and goals of proposed research and how it adds to knowledge
in this field.
V. PLAN OF STUDY
1. Parameters to be studied.
2. Samples to be collected: type frequency and locations.
3. Measurements to be made: type, frequency and locations.
4. Techniques to be used: sampling, measurement and analysis.
5. Special instrumentations needed.
6. Methods of data handling and analysis.
7. Describe scope and content of final report including draft
table of contents.



- 60 -                           ANNEX IV
VI.   SIGNIFICANCE OF PROPOSED RESEARCH
Need, importance, value and expected benefits.
Vii.   PREVIOUS RESEARCH BY PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR
Brief description of related research, titles of publications.
VIII.    RELEVANT FACILITIES AVAILABLE
List available resources - laboratories, special instruments,
computation facilities, libraries, mobile laboratories, etc.
IX.   RESUMES
Curriculum Vitae of principal investigator and supporting
professional staff.
X.   BUDGET (see example)
XI.    TIME SCHEDULE (with chronogram of important project activities).



- 61 -
ANNEX V
T-1
BRAZIL
STAPP APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Characteristics of the Industrial Sector by Region and
State - Industrial Census of 1960 and 1970
1960                                                   1970
Regions and States    Number of    Number of    Value of          Value       Number of    Number of    Value of          Value
Enterprises   Employees   Production        Added      Enterprises   Employees   Production         Added
(Cr$ 000)   (Cr$ 000)                                (Cr$ 000)      (Cr$ 000)
North               1814          20144       10359079    6140083          3201           40332       1064387       546177
15
Rondonia                    55            515         151282      92988           134            1448        29604         18854
Acre                       150            444         67227        34751          172             726        11256          5407
Amazonas                   313           4671      4262745      2479185           606           10734      383655         180333
Roraima                      7             49         13089         3571           55             295         1588           911
Para                      1222          12180       4604681     2418829          2137           25080       498903        224117
Amapa                       67           2285       1260055     1110759            97            2049      139381         116555
Northeast            21216         223752      92825736    42332128         31052          276262      7621248       3160810
Maranhao                  2440          13902      3800423      1493528          2846           12322       313980         97869
Piaui                     1189           4347       1126380      364933          2484            6779       101221         35297
Ceara                    2233          20194       9030261      3127287         4043            39951     1085296        395349
Rio Grande do Norte       1161          11968      5910408      2147639          2204           16768      372114         168784
Paraiba                   1157          17215      8849143      3368116          2552           19762       454284        187414
Pernambuco                3606          72058     32988273    14142187           5905           89331      2646771       1153364
Alagoas                   1594          19759      5869233      2914526          1271           20725       509994        206024
Sergipe                   1886          14286      2902669      1357041          1709           11295       177875         77629
Bahia                    5950          50023      22348946    13416871           8033           59329    19959713        839080
Southeast            60060        1267772    924316266   432811470          85347         1882646    92673208       43590179
Minas Gerais             12327         140268      71445397    33566775         17256          203736     8946152       3864796
Espirito Santo            1608           9714      3158942      1481839          3438           22930       703786       273895
Rio de Janeiro           4543         109815      77324965    39650266           6125          135705     7609240       3226263
Guanabara                5328          176636    114319540    56198549           7972          224465     9897470       5163925
Sao Paulo               36254         831339    658067422   301914041           50556         1295810    65516560      31059300
Soutn              24960         272767    158643060    68819226          37966          456839    15167577        6527973
Parana                   6417           68455     47063544    17474631          10855          114344     4288512       1660952
Santa Catarina           5914           69682     26334875    13033605          8895           120045     2947305       1456690
Rio Grande do Sul       12629         134630      85244641    38310990         18216          222450      7931760       3410331
Center-Guest           2721          14941       8640410      3815935         7224           37289      1285833        445768
Mato Grosso               1098           7804      3477221      1852832         2470            13326      371798        147481
Goias                     1623           7137      5163189      1963103         4351            19513      787841        237051
Distrito Federal                                                                 4C3             4450      126194         61236
Brazil               110771        1799376   1194784551   55391R842         164793         2699969   118427561       54837311
Source: Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica.



ANNEX V
- 62-                               T-2
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Regional Distribution of Investments Approved by the Industrial Development
Council (Conselho de Desenvolvimiento Industrial): 1969-72
State               1969      1970      1971      1972
Sao Paulo                    55.48    61.56    46.70    49.56
Minas Gerais                 11.56      5.09    16.90    18.74
Rio de Janeiro               17.63      9.74    13.82    24.55
Rio Gde. do Sul               2.72    10.51       1.85     1.04
Parana                        0.75      2.32      0.98     0.50
Santa Catarina                2.96      1.23      5.52     1.91
Espirito Santo                0.17      0.83      0.81     0.18
Bahia                         4.54      2.25      2.06     2.60
Other States                  4.19      6.47    11.36      1.92
Total:         100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00
Source: Conselho de Desenvolvimiento Industrial.



-63                               ANNEX V
BRAZIL                              T-3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Sao Paulo Industrial Sector -
Number of Industrial Enterprises and Employees - Period 1950-70
Number of Enterprises             Number of Employees
Industrial Subsector       1950      1960      1970         1950     1960      1970
Non-metallic minerals            3,489    5,515    6,567         44,508   58,046    93,662
Metallurgical                    1,118    2,576    4,390         44,063   75.131   146,534
Metal Mechanic                     444    1,136    3,183         13,613   35,883   107,849
Electrical equipment               234       710    1,634         9,806   35,024    84,209
Transport equipment                213    1,135    1,390          7,321   47,519   114,477
Wood processing                  1,376    1,926    1,765         12,142   12,517    16,160
Furniture                        1,084    2,849    3,595         13,117   24,152    43,546
Pulp and paper                     190       373      618        11,703   19,626    31,367
Rubber                              57       181      399         6,614   10,809    22,082
Leather, Hides and skins           459       547      404         4,511    6,165      5,496
Chemical products                  396       668    1,069        25,304   35,904    50,135
Pharmaceutical products            152       156      213         5,111    6,728    18,170
Perfumes                           221       284      294         2,693    3,828      7,388
Plastics                            67       226      899         1,893    5,565    27,961
Textiles                         1,543    2,149    3,250        145,696  152,706   177,566
Apparel and Footwear             1,588    3,278    4,096         23,659   38,399    77,207
Tobacco                          7,939    8,590   12,023         49,758   66,478   115,342
Food products                      982       689    1,047         9,681   10,235    16,368
Beverages                           17        19       17         3,078    2,619      2,918
Printing and Graphics              945    1,439    2,383         12,884   19,352    40,635
Other                              587    1.142    2,480          9.716   18,814    43,529
TOTAL           23,101   38,588   51.516        456,671  685,500 1,242,601
Sources: IBGE - Industrial Census 1950-1960-1970.



- 64 -                        ANNEX V
64                  ~~~~~T-4
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Distribution of the Net Domestic Product by Sector of Origin
Within the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA)
(%)
Sector of Origin               1950     1960      1970
Agriculture                  1.1      1.3       0.9
Industry                   44.2      48.8      50.6
Services                   54.7      49.9      48.5
Total            100.0    100.0    100.0
Source: BUBEIBGE/Hydrobrasileira Studies.



ANNEX V
- 65 -                           T-5
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT-:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Distribution of the Industrial Labor Force within the State
of Sao Paulo and the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA)
1950               1960               1970
Number     %       Number     %       Number     %
Brazil             1,522,844   100   1,799,376   100   2,699,969   100
State of Sao Paulo  576,766    37.4   831,339    46.2 1,295,810    48.0
GSPA                 356,911    23.4   587,367    32.6   906,907    33.6
Municipality of
Sao Paulo          299,213    19.7   463,867    25.8   643,672    23.8
Source: FIBGE, Industrial Census 1950, 1960 and 1970.



ANNEX V
-66-                          T-6
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Distribution of Industrial Value Added in the
Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA)
(Cr$ million of 1977)
1950               1960               1970
Amount     %       Amount     %       Amount     %
Brazil                        63,421    100    137,833    100    304,943    100
State of Sao Paulo            30,531      48.1   75,126      54.5  172,717      56.5
GSPA                          23,196      36.5   54,918      39.8  128,802      42.2
Municipality of Sao Paulo    18,994       29.9   40,790      29.6   82,900      27.3
Source: FIBGE - Industrial Census 1950, 1960 and 1970.



- 67-                             ANNEX V
T-7
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Municipal Distribution of the Industrial Labor Force within the
Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA)
1950               1960               1970
Municipality           Number      %      Number      %      Number      %
Sao Paulo                 299,213    83.9   463,867    78.9   643,672    71.0
Sao Bernardo do Campo       4,822      1.4    28,714      4.9    75,112      8.3
Santo Andre                27,775      7.8    40,337      6.9    50,372      5.6
Sao Caetano do Sul         13,771      3.9    19,752      3.4    29,426      3.2
Guarulhos                   1,944      0.5     7,258      1.2    28,800      3.2
Osasco                       -          -       -          -     17,530      1.9
Mana                         -          -      4,765      0.8     6,590      0.7
Suzano                      1,100      0.3     2,339      0.4     6,674      0.7
Mogidas Cruzes              3,371      0.9     6,871      1.2    10,825      1.2
Diadema                      -          -         632     0.1     9,622      1.1
Others                      4.915      1.3    12,832      2.2    28,278      3.1
Total GSPA         356,911   100.0   587,367   100.0   906,907   100.0
Source: FIBGE - Industrial Census 1950, 1960 and 1970.



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Industry in the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA)
Number of Industrial Enterprises and Employees - Industrial Census of 1970
Number of Employees
Industrial Subsector                   Number of Enterprises           Total        Blue
Collar Workers
Non-metallic minerals                                            2,564                 52,752      43,095
Metallurgical                                                   3,046                 122,069     102,840
Metal Mechanic                                                   1,977                 77,857      64,563
Electrical equipment                                             1,249                 76,344      65,755
Transport equipment                                                879               101,009       87,335
Wood processing                                                    643                  8,556        7,112
Furniture                                                       1,885                 30,286       25,215
Pulp and paper                                                     490                 26,675      22,492
Rubber                                                            260                  18,526      15,891
Leather, Hides and skins                                           132                 2,314        2,013              1
Chemical products                                                 660                 33,478       25,719             m
Pharmaceutical products                                            177                 17,621      12,050             X
Perfumes                                                           187                  6,876       4,990              1
Plastics                                                           797                26,952       23,387
Textiles                                                        1,786                114,299      103,713
Apparel and Footwear                                            2,761                 54,000       46,584
Tobacco                                                         3,366                 46,744       38,684
Food products                                                      105                 6,453        4,098
Beverages                                                            8                  2,903       2,635
Printing and Graphics                                           1,383                 34,795       27,747
Others                                                          1.433                 36,518       30,690
TOTAL                     25,788                897,027      756,608
Source: IBGE - Industrial Census 1970.



IRAZ rr,
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
The Greater Sao Pautlo Metropolitan Area -
DistributioLI of Air PtliLtLaLnL  by Source ol  lsnislon
(1977 Estimates)
Source of Air Pollution                                                              Air Pollutants                                      -
I'articutate MaLterp      Sulfur Dioxide         Carbon Monoxide        Nitroeen Oxide           llydrocarbons
Tons/day   % Total    Tons/day   % Total    Tons/day   X Total    Tons/day   % Total    Tons/day   Z Total
Industrial Processes and Activities                  319       65           25          3         101          2         n-a l/       _          132         18
Stationary Fuel Combustion                            57        12         810         88          52          1           85         25           8          1
Diesel Vehicles                                       10         2          57          6         163          3          111         32          27          4
Gasoline Vehicles                                     23         5          31          3        4268         91          142         41         504         68
Solid Waste Incinerations                             32         6           1         n-a.       120          3            7          2          39          5
Others                                                51        10                                        -   -                        -          27          4
Total                            493      100          924        100        4704        100          345        100         737        100
i/Not appreciable.
Source: CETESB (State Environmental Control Agency).



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area -
Distribution of Air "o1littant Emissions from Industrial Processes
and Fuel Combustion by Tvye of Activity
(1977 estimates)
Air Pollutants
Type of Activity            Number of       Particulate Matters        Sulfur Dioxide          Carbon Monoxide        Nitrogen Oxide            Hydrocarbons
Establishments      Tons/day   % Total    Tons/day   X Total    Tons/day   % Total    Tons/day   % Total    Tons/day   % Total
Metallurgical                     3169              65         17          187          22         116          76          19         23          23           16
Chemicals                          494              6E         18          159          19           2           1          10         12          21           15
Non-Metallic Minerals              844             181         48          152          18           2           1          17         20           3            2
Textiles                           582               5          1          137          17           1           1          12         14          13            9
Food Products                     2093              18          5           53           6           1           1           7          8           1            1
Transport Equipment                415               5          1           46           6           6           4           9         11          13            9
Pulp and Paper                     145               1         n.a.         34           4          n.a.        n.a.1/       2          2           1            1
Municipal Incinerators               3              12          3            -           -          12           8           -          -          n.a.1/       n.a.
Electrical Equipment               490               2          1           18           2           2           1           2          2          10            7
0
Marketing of Volatile             1981                -         -            -           -           -           -           -          -          29           21
Products
Metal-mechanic                     844              n.a.       n.a.          4           1           1           1          na.-/    n.a.           8            6
others                                                          6           45           5          10           6           7          8          18           13
Total            14217             376        100          835         100         153         100          85        100         140          100
1/ Not *ppreciable.
Source: CETES3 (State Environmental Conto1 Agency)



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTTON CONTROL. PROJECT
The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Distribution of Air Pollutant Emissions
from Industrial Processes and Stationary Fuel Combustion by Municipality.
Air Pollutants
Municipality             Particulate Matters           Sulfur Dioxide              Carbon Monoxide             Nitrogen Oxide               Hydrocarbons
Ind.     Fuel    Total    Ind.    Fuel    Total    Ind.          Fuel   Total    Ind.       Fuel    Total    Ind.        Fuel    Total
Proces.   Comb.             Proces.  Comb.             Proces.   Comb.             Proces.   Comb.             Proces.   Comb.
Sao Paulo                    138        32       170       13     418       431       56        31     87        -         39       39        98        3        101
St. Andre                     26         5        31     n.a.      76        76        2         1      3      n.a.-        8        8         8        1          9
S. Bernardo do Campo          25         6        31     n.a.-/   76         76        4         2      6      n.a.-/      13       13        13        1         14
1/
Mogi dos Cruzes               19         5        24        2      65        67       25        14     39      n.a.         6        6         3        1          4
S. Caetano do Sul             34         2        36        2      53        55        1         1      2        -          6        6         1      n.a.         1
Mana                           1         2         3        7      46        53        5         1      6        -          5        5         2      n.a.Y        2
Others                        76         5        81        1      76        77        8         2     10        -          8        8         7        2          9
Total:           319        57       376       25     810       835      101        52    153      n.a.i'      85       85       132        8        140
1/Not appreciable.
Source: CETESB (State Environmental Control Agency).



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUlION CONTROL PROJECT
The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA)-
Distribution of Air Pollutant Emissions by TYpe of Motor Vehicles
(1977 estimates tons/day)
Type of Motor Vehicle                                                 Air Pollutants
Particulate Matters    Sulfur Dioxide       Carbon Monoxide        Nii;rogen Oxide        Hydrocarbons
GSPA   Sao Paulo    GSPA   Sao Paulo    GSPA   Sao Paulo    GSPA   Sao Paulo    GSPA   Sao Paulo
Municipa-            Municipa-            Municipa-             Municipa-             Municipa-
lity.                lity.                lity.                 Iity                  litv  
Cars                                18        15         26        21         3032      2469        126      102         330       270
Trucks (gasoline)                    3         2           5        3          550       338         16       10         109        69
Trucks (Diesel)                      6         3         36        22           96        58         70       42          15         9
Buses                                3         2         21        14           40        26         41       27           8         5
Total                30        22         88        60         3718       2891       253      181         462       353
Source: CETESB (State Environmental Control Agency).
1-



- 73 -
ANNEX V
T-13
BRAZIL
STAFF APRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area (GSPA) - Number of
Times that the State Air Quality Standards and Emergency Pollution
Levels Where Exceeded in the GSPA in 1976/1978.
Quality Standards             Emergency Levels
Major Air Pollutants Year 1 hour 8 hours' 24 hours Attention Alert Emergency
Sulfor Dioxide         1978      -       -         17         1         0         0
1977     -        -        16         0          0        0
1976     -        -        45         6          0        0
Suspended
Particulate Matter    1978       -       -        121         6         0         0
1977     -        -       105         9          0        0
1976     -        -       189        38          2        0
Product (SO2xPM)       1978      -       -         -         44         0         0
1977     -        -        -         45          0        0
1976     -        -        -         80          0        0
Carbon Monoxide        1978      5      299        -        121         0         0
1977     1       290       -        132          0        0
1976    16       198       -        121          0        0
(1) Maximum 8 hours  average per day
Source: CETESB - State Environmental Control Agency



- 74 -                          ANNEX V
T-14
BRAZIL
STAFF APRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Overall Air Quality in the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area in 1976/1978
Air   Pollutants
Parameters              Year      Particulate       Sulfor        Carbon
Matters        Dioxide      Monoxide (8h)
(1)           (2)           (3)
Average annual concentra-      1978       115 mg/m3      143 mg/mr3     13,2 -PM
tion (Station with  the        1977       109 mg/m3      171 mg/m3      13,5 PPM
higest concentrations )
1976      126 mg/m3       192 mg/mr3    12,0 PPM
Number of times that the       1978          121             17            299
daily standards was exceeded  1977           105            16             290
(All monitoring station )
1976         189             45             198
Number of days that the        1978           44            16             299
daily standards was exceeded  1977            47            15             290
(All monitoring stations )
1976          49             44            198
Maximum daily concentra-       1978          456         802 mg/m3      25,4 PPM
tion (All monitoring           1977      425 Mg/r3       726 Mg/r3      26,6 PPM
station )
1976      666 mg/mr      1316 mg/m3     29,8 PPM
(1) Geometric Mean
(2) Arithmetic Mean
(3)  8 hs average daily maximum
Source: CETESB - State Environmental Control Agency



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Overall Air Quality in the City of Sao Paulo durint 1976
Air       No. of       Max. Arthmetic Values    Min.          Concentrations exceeded during determined percentage of time             Spring            Fall              tWinter          Sumner
Pollutants    Observ.    Conc.   Media    Desvio   Conc.        1       10   20    30    40    50    60       0    80    90    99           Cone.            Cone.              Conc,__          Cone.
Max.    Med.      Nagx.    Med.     Ma X.    Mae.    Max.    Ye.
NO2        358         150      71.9     19,8      29     135      100   86    78    72    68    64    61    57    49    35    109.0         U-0    150.3,   79.4    143.8a   80.0   103.3         U.6
2  13. 7a         42.5              43.5             41. 5a
Co         343          22.3    8.4       4.8       1.3    19.5    15.4 13.0  11.0   9.9   7.9   5.8   4.7   3.7   2.8   1.5    96b    3.5            298b    79        28.9b   11.6    26  b   10.6
03         124          25.4    5.6       4.3       0.05   24.1    10.0  8.2   6.6   5.5   4.4   3.9   3.1   2.4   1.2   0.1          -      -         -         -     10         5.2       -      -
502        365         284    103        48       31      251      176  134   114   100    90    83    74    65    54    38    180          91       264     117       284      115     241      116
le         365         465    107        66        22     422      175  132   116   100    92    80    70    60    53    32    186          82       465     142       330      118     221       84
a - lh maximum
b -8 h  maximum
* pp.m.                                                                                                                                                                                                    Un
(Daily averages in,Lg/m3I
Source: CETESB - State Environmental Control Agency.



ANNEX V
T-1
-76 -
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Air Quality Standards in the State of Sao Paulo
Emergency Levels
Air pollutants          Quality Standards        Attention      Alert      Emergency
Particulate matter       XG annual Xmax24hs*              X24 hs      X24 hs      X24 hs
80       240                  375          625         873
Sulfur dioxide           X annual Xmax24hs*               X24 hs      X24 hs      X24 hs
80       365                  800         1.600      2.100
Carbon monoxide (CO)    Xmax 8hs* Xmax lh*                X 8 hs      X 8 hs      X 8 hs
9 PPM       35 PPM               15 PPM      30 PPM      40 PPM
Photochemical            Xmax lh*                         X lh        X lh        X lh
Oxidants (03)               160                           200         800         1.200
Nitrogen
dioxide (NO2)                                    X 1 h = 1.130 X 1 h - 2.260 X 1 h = 3.000
X 24 hs = 282 X 24 hs - 565 X 24 ha - 750
All values expressed inAA/m3
XG - Geometric mean
X = Arithmetic mean
Xmax 8 hs = Maximum value over 8 hours.
* Concentrations not to be exceeded more than once a year.



- 77-'                               ANNEX V
T-17-
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Estimates of Pollution Loads and Deterioration
of Water Courses in the Greater Sao Paulo Area
1975     1980      1985    2000
Population (million inhabitants)
Total                                               9.6      12.3     14.0      21.6
Provided with sewerage servicea                     4.0       5.3      9.4      19.0
Sewage Flows (m3/s)
Domestic sewage                                  12      15        28        70
Industrial sewage                                9       11        14        24
Total                                           21       26        42        94
Pollution Loa&s (in tons of BOD / per day)
Domestic sewage                                250      345       649    1,824
Industrial sewa7ge                             270      530       400       670
Urban run-.off                                  90      110       130       190
Total                                          610      985    1,179    2,684
Dilution Catacitv of Water Courses
Natural river flows in Greater S. P.
(m3/sec)                                     87       87       87        87
Flows taken out by SABESP aid
industry (m3/sec)                            23       27        26       50.
Remanent flows for dilution (m3/sec)            64       60        61        37
Average dilution index (relation
betweeni remanent river flows and
total sewage flows)                           3       2.3       1.5      0.4
Average  concentration of pollutiocc- loads
in the water courses  2/
BOD average (DmgIl)                             80      120       150       250
Concentration ratio related to 1975            100      150       188       313
1/  BOD is an indicator expressing presence of degradabl.e organic ma,.ter
in water (e.g. high levels of BOD and absence of Dissolved Oxygen (DO)
result in offensive odors and enviromnental nutisances, in addition to
the potential healtlh hazards).  BOD measured at 20° centigrade and
five days incubation period..
2/  EsLimated BOD in tlle water courseq after dilution of total sewage with
river flows.



- 78-                                                   ANNEX V
T-18
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Infant Mortality in the Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan
Area (GSPA) and the World.
Infant Mortality in the GSPA (1960-1970)
lsfast 14rtality
Per 1000 Jirths
t!G    ssa - Greitet Sao, ?aulo, excltdin  SAo ~aulo Municipzlity
b - 1-biuicipality of Suo Paujlo
4~ ~~~~~~~~                                     - . -| J  - --,'
INFANT MORTALITY RATIOS PER 1000 BIRTHS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES
FROM 1945 TO 1949 AND FROM 1964 TO 1966
Co.fficie"t of Infant YortEality
Co=ncrias                _
1945 - 1949           1964 - 1566
Swedeu                            26                      13
nea:s:k                          .41                      19
liolland                          40                      14
1Soglaad aud U,leo                39                      19
Scotland                          S1                      23
UJnite3 States                    33                      23
A"strAli&                         23                      18
Jn pan                            61                      19
Sri LIn-k                        111                      56
In,di. (*)                       171                      73
P'hilip9ineC                     115                      73
I4Hxico                          105                      54
iamica                            90                      35
Vanezoel                          9s3                     48
Chile                            153                     107
Higsria (')                     1llO                      70
Source: A c_p.,,io. to :.1,ic.l st-idtes. Bdlackwell Sc1entifLc Publitatioa,
Oxford a  F.diobura, 1970.
(C)     the rati.3 arc repcoeentative of  rso  regloas aotd not for
the ,t'ire celomtry:



-  79
BRAZIL
STAPii APPRAISAL REPORT                                             ANNEX  VIII
RAO PAULO MiNUSTiIAL POLLU'TION CONTROL PROJECT                                   T-19
BADESP - Audited Comparative Balance Sheets and Income Statements
(Period 1973-77)
(millions of current crusairoc)
BALANCE SIHEET
1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
Assets
Cash, Bank balances and funds in transit              74.1        133.5         30.3         47.8         146.7
Loans outstanding
Governments                                           - 1/      14.0         38.0        127.7          87.5
State enterprises                                     - 1/    474.4        1044.1       1592.7        3532.2
Rural enterprises                                 136.1        131.3        227.2        391.5        538.5
Industrial enterprises                            319.5        637.4       1201.9       2347.1       3418.9
Service enterprises                               222.7        121.4        278.9        581.6         861.4
Subtotal Loans Outstanding                    678.3        1378.8       2790.1       5040.6       8438.5
Investments                                           61.0         47.4        127.5        253.8         350.4
Fixed assets (net)                                    20.4         19.8         44.3          65.7         79.6
Loans in liquidation                                    -          10.0          36.3         42.8        149.8
Other assets                                          87.9         90.4          95.4        168.8        359.3
Total Assets                                  921.7        1679.9       3123.9       5619.5       9524.3
Liabilities
Deposits                                                 -            -          6.0           6.0          6.0
borrowing
Central Bank                                          -            -           -             -             -
Trust Funds                                       116.4        205.8        359.1        480.5         624.9
Government lines of credit                        452.6        981.8       2067.4       4058.0       7226.3
Foreign lines of credit                               - 2/      41.4         76.9        156.9        330.8
Other (Conetary correction)                         5.9         31.4         72.5        117.3         180.5
Subtotal Borrowing                            574.9        1260.4       257.5.9      4812.7       8362.5
Octher liabilities                                    21.6         10.0         26.0           3.2         13.9
Total Liabilities                                    596.5       1270.4       2607.9       4821.9        8382.4
Equity
Capital                                              280.0        280.0        280.0         480.0        580.0 3/
Reserves and retained earnings                        45.2        129.5        231.0        297.7         525.7
Monetary correction of fixed assets                      -            -          5.0          19.9         36.2
Total Equity                                         325.2        409.5        516.0        797.6        1141.9
Total liabilities and Equity                            921.7       1679.9       3123.9        5619.5       9524.3
Guarantees                                                  -        688.6         768.2        885.1       1183.3
INCOME STATiEMENTS
Income
Interest and cosmissions on loans                     27.9         80.0        160.2        307.7         548.5
Exchange fluctuations and admin. of funds              8.5         10.8          29.9         53.4        106.8
Monetary corrections                                  38.6        241.9        405.4         981.7       1507.7
Subtotal income on loans                           75.0        332.7        595.5       1342.8       2164.0
Interest on investments                               12.5         20.9         16.5          16.6         40.1
Dividends                                              1.1           1.0          1.7          4.6          2.1
Other                                                    .1          .3           1.2           .9          5.8
Total Tncome                                       88.7        354.9        614.9       1364.9       2211.0
Expenses
Financial expenses                                    35.5        231.5        441.1       1062.0       1805.5
Gross spread                                          53.2        123.4        173.8        302.9         405.5
Personnel                                             16.7         26.3         49.3          92.4       1387.
Other admin. expenses                                  5.3         11.8           7.9         32.7         35.0
Incosme taxes                                            _            _          5.1           5.4          4.3
Net Income                                                31.2         85.3        111.5        172.4        227.7
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Total incomte of X of ATA                             13.9         27.3          25.6         31.2         29.2
Financial expenses as % of ATA  .                      5.6         17.8         18.4          24.3         23.8
Gross spread as 1 of ATA                               8.3          9.5           7.2          6.9          5.4
Adm,inistrative expenses as X of ATA                   3.5          2.9          2.4           2.9          2.3
Income on loans as X of average loan portfolio    16.7             32.3         28.6          34.3         32.1
Financial expenses as X of average borrowing           9.7         25.2         23.0          28.7         27.4
Net income as X of average share capital              14.9         30.5         39.8          45.3         47.4
Equity            12.1         23.2          24.1         26.2         24.8
Inflation rate                                        15.7         34.5         29.2          46.3         38.7
Debt/Equity                                            1.8          3.1          5.1           6.1          7.3
1/ Incl-Wded in other coteg.len below.
7/ Sec,luded as pcrL of goveroncnt lines of credit.
3/ Including 100.0 c-ntrIbuted by  rate not yet authorized by Central Bank.



- 80 -                                       ANNEX V
T-20
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
BADESP - Audited Comparative Balance Sheets-(1978-Mid 1979) I/
(millions of current Cruzeiros)
1978       June 30, 1979                                           1978        June 30, 1979
ASSETS                                                                  LIABILITIES
Short Term Assets                                                      Short Term Liabilities
Cash, Bank                              61                60           Short Term Borrowings
Credit Operations                     2304             4361                   Local Borrowings           1576             2061
Temporary Investments                  324              561                   Foreign Borrowings           64              169
Other Assets                           602              386                                              1640             2230
Sub-Total        3291             5368            Other Payables                     69               84
Sub-Total         1719             2314
Long-Term Assets
Credit Operations
Agriculture                         537              571            Medium & Long Term Liabilities
Other Sectors                     10695            12313            Medium & Long Term Borrowings
Credits in Liquidation              241              375                  Local Borrowings           9696            11550
Provisions for Doubtful Loans    (241)              (375)                  Foreign Borrbwings         660              914
11242            12884            Other Liabilities                 830             1412
Sub-Total        11186            13876
Sundry Accounts                      10                9
Equity Investments                   91               89            Equity
Sub-Total       11343            12982            Capital                          1098             1335
Capital Reserves                  622              786
Fiied Assets (Net)                        105               122           Retained Earnings                   23               29
Revenue Reserves                   92              140
Other Assets                                 1                8                           Sub-Total         1835             2290
GRAND TOTAL    14740             18480                           GRAND TOTAL      14740            18480
1/ Change in Plan of Account made it difficult to compare statements with those of previous years.



- 81 -
ANNEX V
T-21
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
BADESP - Audited Comparative Income Statements (1978-Mid 1979) 1/
(millions of current cruzeiros)
1978          June 30, 1979
INCOME
Operating Revenues
Interest & Commissions on loans                                   4075               3036
Interest on Temporary Investments                                   90                 27
Other Operating Revenues                                           139                 72
Non-Operating Revenues                                                 10                  5
TOTAL                          4314                3140
EXPENSES
Operating Expenses
Interest on Borrowings                                            3317               2475
Commissions                                                        -                  -
Administrative & General                                           222                164
Capital Expenses                                                   265                138
Non Operating Expenses                                                -                  -
Monetary Corrections                                                  405                322
Provisions for Taxes                                                   21                 10
Employees profit Participation                                         19                -
TOTAL                           4249               3109
NET INCOME                                                                56                 31
1/ Change in plan of accounts made it difficult to compare statements with those of
previous years.



- 82 -
ANNEX V
T-22
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Amount                     Cumulative Disbursements
End of Quarter
1980
First Quarter
Second Quarter
Third Quarter                         -
Fourth Quarter                      2.5                                 2.5
1981
First Quarter                       4.25
Second Quarter                      4.25
Third Quarter                       4.50
Fourth Quarter                      5.00                               20.25
1982
First Quarter                       5.50
Second Quarter                      6.00
Third Quarter                       7.00
Fourth Quarter 1/                   6.00                               44.75
1983
First Quarter 1/                    5.00
Second Quarter                      4.00
Third Quarter                       9.00
Fourth Quarter 2/                   2.00                               57.75
1984
First Quarter 2/                    0.25                               58.00
1/ End date for submission of subprojects.
2/ Closing date.



ANNEX V
- 83-                                              C-1
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Organization Chart of BADESP
|Operational A-sst.]|                                                                    Administrative Asst.
Technical          Finance & Reserve B| siness Rela-                        Legal and               Legal Rela-        Communications
Advisory          Mobilization               ina Advisory                   Administrative          tions Advi-        Advisory
Unit    _         Advisory Unit             Unit                            Advisory Unit           sor  Unit          Unit
Coordinat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ing Unit I
Division      D7vision        Div. of
of            of          Administra-
Arrear        Contracts       tive Hatters
| Industrial |     [ Commerce and                    Agricultural               Administrative                Financial
Department           Special Operations|             Department                 Department                    Department
Department          I



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Organization Chart of CETESB
Presiec
Advisors                                                      President's
Cabinet     l
Dept. ofEnvronmetDept. of Administration,    Dept. of Research,1/                        1/               1/
Dept. of Environmentalt/    Finance and Computer         Engineering, Techno-       Dept. of Solid         Commercial
Pollution Control              Activities      1/        logy and Training    Wastes Technology        Department
1[ Headed by Directors pertaining to a Collegiate Directorship.



- 85-                           ANNEX V
C-2
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO PAULO POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Organization Chart of CETESB -
Department of Environmental Pollution Control
Dept. of Environmental
Pollution Control
Secretary            ~~Assistants
Superintendency      Superintendency of          Superintendency           Superintendency
of Licensing      Sources of Pollution        of Air Technology         of Regional Units
Control Engineering



- 86 -
ANNEX V 7
C-3
BRAZIL: SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SABESP
DIRECTORS      SUPERINTENDENTS
Economic Planning
Water Planning for Region 1
PLANNING       Sewerage Planning for Region 1
Water & Sewerage Planning for Region 2
Programs Development Advisor
Systems Projects
CON-         Distribution & Collection Projects
STRUCTION      Systems Implementation
ADMINIS-                                      Distribution & Collection Implementation
TRATIVE     PRESIDENT                         Water Production
Sewage Treatment and Disposal
COUNCIL                       OPERATION       Distribution & Collection
Administration of Isolated Systems
Selling
Accounting
FINANCE        Budgeting
Finances
Supply
ADMINIS-       Transportation
TRATION        Personnel
Legal



BR AZ IL
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area
AMINAS  GERAIS                               STATE OF SAO PAULO
Regional Departments
MSA T O                                         J     DO   l                                     -       - Stte boundaries
Regional Department boundaries
GROSS 0                     \.--'              R. PRETO                                                       Greater SAo Paulo
'=~..   ARA§ATUBA                               (.    RIBEIRAO                      ua"u -~Rivers
RF                                                      ( 2  7   R    IBEIRAO
<,40~~~ .                                    A      AAU-< ,$PRETO
PRESIDENTE         >        -  '                                           '         C
RPj      PRUDENTE            .                 N
j BAUR                                      . MINAS GERAIS
MARILIA                  '                                                                             RiO
~~~~~' ~~~~~~~~(D E
-                   ~~~~VALE  D0
Tt~5W   _5~m               uj  -PARAIbA                                                             OAJ1ASRO
(5 f.        :;,,X,.Ft,GUANA nec                       .. )59 j3 % ...... '< oGREATER
f'5- '.                                                                                                  ,.AOPAU-LO
B R A Z IL L.ubata
F=U= is  , ,>                  17--   PARANA             \                      LITORAL
5AO PAULO           Ib
CHI5e                 L                                           ....                --           0        eSO    tolvaren+Zem~0 o    1°50  2 00 250
24-~~ ~~~  f M     75  Puo 2         r m/'Ce Omh                      '                                          iKito,te5es
21-~~~~~~~~~~~~
0          50           tOO0        tOO
en7 eL A,-                                                          .-.IItL}Ya  -6
CAMPINAS
VALE DO
.4-i    '--  r  <  s .s  X   2'           s          PARAIBA
- i ! N O~C   R-! T  H,   
/ j;i-, I                        / i__.,_, NORTHE/4ST  ,
SOROCADA | NoRrHWEST'                                                                                                  ___/
z , i .81>,-= . = -: ti i =. ,  -  E  A'S  TR-'L\
, ,Otr  I'                           I]             S         UTE,AST.'\/---
.                        !                     I i -  =='-  -- 4r---
j soITHIWEST                                                  GREATER SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN AREA
.. _                                                                                \  1 . 5  |  ' '. . - 1N. Sub-regions and Municipalities
j                                .... \ | g == -. ='>S- /                                Schematic drawing-scale approximate
7'      I                                                      -  - ---- Regional Department boundaries
,*-R-----Sub-region boundcaries
*      7                                            /    LITORAL                      - --Municipal boundaries
1                                 I       l                                                          .' S * ut  il E Sao Paulo Center
2SSalesopolis
... ... > /CENTER       8        1ttpevi                     NORTHEAST                  25Suzano
'.  ,.         Sao PauloCity         q Janirn                     i9Aruja                     'iOUTHEAST
NORTH                  10 sasco                     2CGuorulhos                 50Dadema
I Caieiras e            Pirnaporn do Bom Jesus     2 i Santaisabel             3 ' Maud
, Francisco Morato    S25antana do Pornoabj         EAST                        U2Ribeirda Pires
5Franco da Rocho      SOUTHWEST                    ' Biritiba Miriam            .5Rao Gronde do Serra
Mairipora            l_Cota                       ^ -Ferroz de Vasconcelos    .'Santo Andre                 _
NORTHWEST             !'Embu                       , Guararema                  . Sao Bernardo do Campo   3 r
Berue                -'Embu Gun                    '.Iltaquaquecetubo         ISSo Caetant do Sul
Cajorue               -Itapecerica do Serea        0Mojidaes Cruzes
- Juqitiba da                 Pod 
-Caraipicuiba         I-Tebooo do Senrra



TO CAMP//SAD                                                           .                                                                                           S. SE' EE07AA
$ 0 cjU T H
I_Ro  SANTA TARE. EA To RIO DE J/OR O                                                                                                                       R! C
FRANSO TA RED/P/AC  ..4'&"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~SNT SBE
y ) FRANCC DA ROCHlAo ,  .    'M MAIR PORA
'3                            >O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.CA ERAS
EN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA
SEDS'&'A              '                45 PERKS oCAERAS                                                                                  GdARARE.EA 3                                   . PRS
SE  "-S                 4                         4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ .. S                                               '                                 _
SANTA NX                                        " _
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA                                                                                            SAESPO
E +  ;;                                                                                                                                                         0 || 0 00  0 JJ '  z  0 0 ; 500 i02 t i 0-+-~C S / wv  PaubElAR AZD
VAt+SCONC LUD    S  f;;0:0   0 000,   t,   '0 00002   0    ;0      t0  a   
3<::::
I    S/AETNA  .~~~~~~issS,w.cA4>/QIRA  0&TCO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  BIRA
'  ,R0 ff   1 0  GRAADE  ;
N __ ASiJ i5 ' 't's'7  _    44b55 0 TA1D 4  000  0  365 1
liQUrr~~~~~~ LR                                    TAA                                       SANTOSqa~a-'-'
.               4QC55R5eK4 'l                                                                            ........ A-V
p1.1~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, N.1- 4;-
.~~~~~ ...5 E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XK&  TIA%RMA  7K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~A.,R-d
45  ,44~~~~~~~~~~Eil  -
TA SI-ERA  /~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~pi-



BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:
SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
The Greater Sao Paulo Metropolitan Area - Present and Future Water Resources
SABESP
GUARAPIRANGA PROGRAM
-  <>- PIRAPORA DAM     r=                                                            /   1977 - 6m3/sec
1980 - 16.4m3/sec
PUMPING STATION
-.1990 -33m3 /sec
RASGAO POWER PLANT                          7                                                                     TR
PUMPING STATINGSTTONO
NATURL RV    LWREARA   A
SAB ESP     .£e
GUARAPIRANGA PROGRAM                          STATO
1977U-9m3/sec    /G     ARAPIRANGA RESERVOIR
1980- 10.5m 3/sec                                               BILLINGS RESERVOIR
1990- 15.1 m3/sec
2000 - 37.7m3/sec
World Bank -18276



IBRD 13887
;Year  BODvrg/  DO  riS/I                                                                                                                                                                                           13RA ZI  L                      SEPTEMBER   1978
Year  ;OOero/I                                      f1975   0.60      5 5                                                                                                                                                            Sao  Paulo  Industrial Pollution  Control Project
Yev  HCD-Al DOmg/l:                J         D        iZ B!    it
1975   35 034     0.00        Y-r   O           O       ')a                                                                                                                                                                                  Behovior of Water Resources to  Pollution  Loads
1975   35.34          Ig~~1 75   468     0.0              ..                       reod   RcoD6OIro                                                                                                                                                         ae                            olt
2000    2 70      6.72      0
1975- Presert sul-ti-e
2066  4,2 7   4  0                                                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 985
2000 S 4 27  4 34  i   '2000  j05 010 j jj  4 700   ,                 ....epreso de                                                                                                                                                2000- With biolWogical sewage ir.arew
3J g   Cajam-ro          .           >  r    Caieiras                                                                                                                                                                       2000 - Wth  advanced s..ge t2reament
Oco   B0Oaa/l DOvaII                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BODO  Rfi-h-esi-l Ovyge,, Doi-rod
YeoR                                                                                            BODmgS j DOm37 w t J t   *   :   ;   Z I  Ye  :rl3DO - Dissolved O.ygen
1975      2          oD, de  o                1975  17.01                                                              0.00               2000
I~~~~7 ] 96  0TBD / !DO S  +-_ _ q 5 O
YawlBO9vg/l DOg/                                                                                                                                                                                   vaZr61 i,      [Org/ 
70~~~~~~~~~~~20
Y..,  BOD~~~~~~~~~~~~~,/i DO.g/1                                                                                                       1915    64         0 00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YarBOeoI   Ov/
20 00    6420
boodo/osow  ott>M°6egno  PYOrrl/&tl   ayeno 0Cnorpi                           '4ii           .0 0X -                                                                                              Mvi06C            050            200       3.0       000r                               --
0 76  &44                                                         AO                                                                                                                                                               -Yaw, BFOIi,/l DO~/1 -i  /
200C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~000 2.0                                   41
.00001 10.11  3.40    /  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.4                                                                                      A
0     o                                                                                                                                                     Mdjdo Serro0                     2000/3.60                                                          O//
19 75  3.98    0,00                                                                                      1110D-MTDO~~~~570   SI 43  0.00 
11975    57 73  w           074        023~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~95      2  1                00
200                                                                                     2008  I290.90  __A
200  1  3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~RP/EA   0
19  97,73    0.00 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    20         3      '.0                                                                                            0,
f200C   9200                                                                            1.00     0.006
OD   d... ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ,   OroI   Oi/                                                                                               ~.
d. Serr.                             REPRESA DE              ~            OERSA7E               '00      3.0       651.                                                                                '~    A     /
Y-   eODa,   DO,,i, 1 Ori7i                                                       9Z0                                                                    ,~1           I   e/ 7iP.
0  5  10            5           20           25                                                                                                                                      Oriar  BOOrie/iTOOav/I~~~~~~175  01.1
BIIOOBTERO                                .1< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 5  11                                                                                                                                           S  ,,        
270         17       7.600__                                                  vrOlO                                      I      3        0 2O1eICjBeI
DO F
0  0  10          15                                                                       7..                                       2vri,0                2070      0 00      0 33 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~195f1-7ri3
__________________________________                                         7      *I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .                                       riO~~~~~                                                          5         .3'$SY    ~~~~~                     A,ov v/3r15 6i6
0,101                                            ,0000     103                                                   svv'ouo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              o~~~*    CO  5~~~~~~/  ,        .                        Biodejavejrv200    413    8
Tr,ariaOve,0ae,/v0o,eoo,0veWn0oOa,v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vTl0iv.vvei/rro,varovia,,err.              Vicerite   ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI,
arrevOvra~~~~~~~~~~~~~rvvr brvvdai.Oa                                                                                                                Oar                                                               5~~~~~~~~866  O~CiV  ,3  566~
all.,aleiaorlidrri,v wiavo,vroiva rlalrieri.i,/ a,avyvv0rearart2000    1voer7 7.28o                                                                                                                                                                                                                s



