IFFICiAL     LOAN NUMBER 1822 BR
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(SWo Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SAo PAULO
and
BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO S.A. - BADESP
and
CETESB - COMPANHIA DE TECNOLOGIA DE SANEAMENTO AMBIENTAL
and
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE SAG PAULO - SABESP
Dated                            , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1822 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and STATE OF SAO PAULO (hereinafter called
the State) and BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO ESTADO DE SKO PAULO
S.A. - BADESP (hereinafter called BADESP) and CETESB - COMPANHIA
DE TECNOLOGIA DE SANEAMENTO AMBIENTAL (hereinafter called CETESB)
and COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO -
SABESP (hereinafter called SABESP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank and Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento
Econ5mico (hereinafter called BNDE), a development bank wholly
owned by, and created and operating under the laws of the Bor-
rower, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million
dollars ($58,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan, Agreement, but only on condition that the State, a
political sub-division of the Borrower, BADESP, a development bank
created and operating under the laws of the Borrower and the State
and on which the State owns a majority interest, and CETESB and
SABESP, both companies created and operating under the laws of the
Borrower and the State and on which the State owns a majority
interest, agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between BNDE on behalf and as financial agent (agente financeiro)
of the Borrower, and the State and BADESP, the latter as financial
agent (agente financeiro) of the State and administrator of
PROCOP (as the term is defined in Section 1.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement), the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to PROCOP on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP, in considera-
tion of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower and BNDE, have agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist the
State in financing such facilities and resources in the State as
will contribute to the air and water pollution control in the
State. The Project consists of the financing of specific air and
water pollution control projects within the State through either:
(i) loans to Investment Enterprises operating within the State
which (A) in order to comply with the State Pollution Control
Legislation and, when applicable, with the Water Pollution Control
and Air Pollution Control Strategies, undertake (1) the treatment
or pretreatment of their effluents and emission discharges or (2)
substantial change of their technological or productive processes,
or (B) are required by CETESB to relocate; or (ii) in the case of
Technical Assistance projects, grants to CETESB.
Section 2.02. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, BADESP shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enter-
prise and an appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization thereof; (iii) evidence of
approval of the Sub-project by CETESB which, if such Sub-project
consists of control of water pollution within SANEGRAN, shall show
that such Sub-project conforms to the pretreatment conditions
established by SABESP; and (iv) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. BADESP shall furnish to BNDE copy of all
the aforesaid.
(b) Each request by BADESP for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan


﻿- 3 -
shall contRin: (i) a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and an appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization thereof; (iii) evidence of approval
of the Sub-project by CETESB which, if such Sub-project consists
of control of water pollution within SANEGRAN, shall show that
such Sub-project conforms to the pretreatment conditions estab-
lished by SABESP; and (iv) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. BADESP shall furnish to BNDE copy of all
the aforesaid.
(c) When presenting a grant to the Bank for approval BADESP
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, together with: (i) evidence of approval of the Sub-
project consisting of Technical Assistance by the Steering Commit-
tee; (ii) a copy of CETESB's proposal to the Steering Committee
justifying such Sub-project; and (iii) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. BADESP shall furnish to BNDE
copy of all the aforesaid.
(d) Whenever a Sub-project includes a substantial change
in the technological or productive processes of any plant of the
Investment Enterprise in question, in addition to the information
listed in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this Section, as
applicable, the sub-loan approval application in respect of, or
the request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan for, such Sub-project
shall include either an analysis of an alternative direct treat-
ment or pre-treatment solution of the pollution control problems
faced by such plant (hereinafter called the alternative), if any,
together with a determination of the hypothetical investment cost
of such solution, both to be prepared by CETESB, or a statement
from CETESB to the effect that there is no lower investment cost
alternative for the Sub-project in question.
(e) The provisions of Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement
shall apply to this Section.
Section 2.03. (a) The State shall, upon withdrawal of the
proceeds of the Loan by BNDE from the Loan Account and relending
by BNDE to the State, in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, of the proceeds so withdrawn, credit PROCOP with the
equivalent amount in cruzeiros of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(b) The State shall, in addition to the amounts specified
in paragraph (a) of this Section and in paragraph (c) of Section
6.01 of the Loan Agreement, credit PROCOP, as and when needed
for purposes of the Project, with the equivalent of $66,200,000
which, unless the Bank and the State shall otherwise agree, shall
not be used for making grants, and with such other amounts as
shall be required to finance Sub-projects.
(c) The State shall, in addition to the amounts specified
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, credit PROCOP as and
when needed for purposes of the Project, with the proceeds of
the loan to be made by Banco Nacional da Habitago to the
State under the contract referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The State shall, in addition to its obliga-
tions under Section 2.03 of this Agreement, timely provide CETESB
with ,inds, in an amount of not less than $4,000,000 equivalent,
for purposes of assisting CETESB in the financing of Sub-projects
consisting of Technical Assistance (including the purchase of
equipment related thereto); provided, however, that the aforesaid
funds shall be provided to CETESB as follows: at least $1,200,000
equivalent in each of the twelve-month periods ending March 31,
1981, March 31, 1982 and March 31, 1983, and the remainder prior
to March 31, 1984.
Section 2.05. BADESP shall: (a) administer PROCOP in accor-
dance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel and in accordance with the provisions of
Decrees No. 14806, dated March 4, 1980, and No. 14807, dated
March 4, 1980, and the By-laws;
(b) credit PROCOP, promptly after each respective payment,
with such amounts as shall be paid by Investment Enterprises to
BADESP, as administrator of PROCOP, on account of the repayment of
the principal of sub-loans and the payment of interest thereon;
and
(c) keep at all times separate accounts for PROCOP and for
other sub-accounts of FESB and take all such action as shall be
necessary in order to prevent that monies which should be credited
to PROCOP be credited to any of such other sub-accounts.
Section 2.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
loans financed out of funds credited to PROCOP (including sub-


﻿- 5 -
loans) shall be denominated in cruzeiros, be repayable over a
period of not less than 10 years, including a grace period of
not less than 3 years, and bear interest (i) at a rate of at least
2% per annum on the outstanding principal amount which shall be
adjusted to reflect 100% of the variations of ORTN, or (ii) in
the case of sub-loans made to Small or Medium Investment Enter-
prises and subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, at a rate of
at least 2% per annum on the outstanding principal amount which
shall be adjusted to reflect 65% of the variations of ORTN.
(b) From time to time, starting not later than March 31,
1981 or on the date on which the aggregate of sub-loans authorized
or approved by the Bank reaches an amount to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan of $18,000,000 equivalent, whichever is
earlier, and on following occasions which, unless the Bank and the
State shall otherwise agree, shall take place not less than once
in each year, the Bank and the State shall review the adequacy of
the on-lending conditions for Small and Medium Investment Enter-
prises in order to propose, in light of such review, the method to
be utilized, from the earlier of the dates referred to in Section
2.03 (a) ,of the Loan Agreement and thereafter to adjust the
outstanding principal of sub-loans to be made to Small and
Medium Investment Enterprises, the period within which such
method shall be in effect and the date of the next review.
(c) If, with respect to the first of the reviews referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section, by June 30, 1981 or the date
in which the aggregate of sub-loans authorized or approved by the
Bank reaches an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan of $22,500,000 equivalent, whichever is earlier, or, with
respect to each of the following reviews referred to in such
paragraph (b), sixty days from the initiation of such review, the
Bank and the State shall not have reached an agreement on the
method of adjustment of principal to be utilized for purposes of
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, on the period within which
such method shall be in effect and on the date on which the next
review for purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section shall take
place, the State agrees that the Bank shall have the right not to
approve any sub-loan or, in the case of free-limit sub-loans, not
to authorize any withdrawal from the Loan Account, for purposes of
financing Sub-projects carried out, or to be carried out, by Small
or Medium Investment Enterprises.
Section 2.07. (a) BADESP undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, each sub-loan will be made on terms whereby


﻿-6-
BADESP shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, the State,
BNDE and BADESP, including the right of BADESP, as administrator
of PROCOP, to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry
out and operate the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project; (iii) inspect, by themselves or jointly with repre-
sentatives of CETESB or SABESP, or the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Invest-
ment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to the place of use or instal-
lation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair
'such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Borrower, or
the Bank, or BADESP, or CETESB, or SABESP shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan relent under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under any contract with BADESP in its role as
administrator of PROCOP.
(b) BADESP, as administrator of PROCOP, shall exercise its
rights in relation to each Sub-project in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, the State, BNDE,
CETESH and SABESP; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.08. (a) The State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan relent under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Sub-projects, and the sub-loans and
the grants.
(b) The State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP shall, at the
request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the obligations of BNDE and BADESP under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(c) The State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP shall promptly
inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the State, BADESP,
CETESB and SABESP of its obligations under this Agreement and
the State', BNDE or BADESP under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) BADESP and CETESB shall enter into con-
tractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes
of coordinating their respective functions in the carrying out of
the Project.
(b) CETESB and SABESP shall enter into contractual arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of coordinating
their respective functions in the carrying out of the Project and
establishing their respective responsibilities in respect of
water pollution control in the State of Sgo Paulo.
Section 2.10. Within six months following the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account or by such later date as the Bank shall
request, BADESP, CETESB, and SABESP shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Sub-projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by BADESP, CETESB, SABESP
and the Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement,
the performance by BNDE and BADESP of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.


﻿-8-
Section 2.11. The State and BADESP, the latter as financial
agent (agente financeiro) of the State, shall duly perform all of
its respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither the State nor
BADESP shall take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Additional Covenants of the State
Section 3.01. The State shall pay:
(a) BNDE a fee, payable in semiannual installments, equiva-
lent to 0.50% per annum pro-rata tempore of the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan outstanding;
(b) BADESP, out of the resources of PROCOP, a quarterly fee
equivalent to 0.375% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount
of loans financed out of the proceeds of PROCOP at the end of each
quarter; and
(c) CETESB, out of the resources of PROCOP, a quarterly fee
equivalent to 0.125% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount
of loans financed out of the proceeds of PROCOP at the end of each
quarter.
Section 3.02. The State shall, for purposes of Section
2.02 (b) and 2.03 of this Agreement and not later than December 31
in each year until the Loan has been fully disbursed, make the
necessary appropriations in its budget on the basis of the Project
budgets to be prepared in accordance with Sections 4.04 and 5.04
of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The State shall cause its agencies not to
take any action which would prevent CETESB from applying the
sanctions provided for in the State Follution Control Legislation
(including, but not limited to, the suspension of operations of a
plant), and shall take, or cause to be taken, all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable CETESB to apply such
sanctions and to furnish to the Bank all such information on the
subject as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. The State shall, as and when requested by
CETESB pursuant to Section 5.06 (b) of this Agreement: (i) file a


﻿- 9 -
petition with the Borrower's Ministry of the Interior requesting
the Borrower to take all such action as shall be required on the
Borrower's part for purposes of the Federal Pollution Control
Legislation; (ii) inform the Bank of any such petition; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank all such information in respect of any such
petition as the Bank shall reasonably request,
Section 3.05. The State shall, by January 31, 1981, amend the
State's Decree No. 10755 so as to make possible the achievement of
the purposes of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants of BADESP
Section 4.01. BADESP shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Sub-project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of BADESP as administrator of PROCOP.
Section 4.02. BADESP shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and PROCOP's accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as
soon as available but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements and of the financial statements of PROCOP for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audits by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning BADESP, FESB, PROCOP, its other accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. BADESP shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agree-
ment and any relevant documents.
Section 4.04. BADESP shall, not later than July 31 in each
year, until the Loan has been fully disbursed, prepare and
furnish to the Bank through the Steering Committee and the
State's Secretaries of Finance, and Economy and Planning a Project
budget for the immediately succeeding year.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Additional covenants of CETESB
Section 5.01. (a) CETESB shall carry out each Sub-project
consisting of Technical Assistance (including the purchase of
equipment related thereto) with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate practices; and provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Whenever CETESB shall, for purposes of paragraph (a)
above, hire the services of an institution, such institution
and the terms and conditions of the contract providing for such
services shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. CETESB shall:
(a) complete by September 30, 1981, a study, the terms of
reference of which shall be mutually agreed between the Bank, the
State's Secretaries of Economy and Planning, and Finance, and
CETESB, on the adequacy of CETESB's river pollution monitoring
network including an assessment of its needs for additional or
more sophisticated river pollution monitoring equipment;
(b) furnish to the Bank the recommendations of such study
upon its completion, and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment thereon; and
(c) take such action as shall be appropriate in light of
such recommendations and comments.
Section 5.03. CETESB shall:
(a) ensure that all Sub-projects for water pollution control
include, whenever appropriate, the installation of appropriate
tamper-proof monitoring equipment to register the flow of liquid
discharges and at least one key water pollution parameter; and
(b) at least annually, adequately test sources of emission
of particulate matter in each Investment Enterprise which is
carrying out or has carried out a Sub-project for air pollution
control.
Section 5.04. CETESB shall assist BADESP in the preparation
of the Project budgets referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.05. CETESB shall, contemporaneously with the
execution of SANEGRAN during the years 1980 and 1981, carry out a
detailed survey throughout GSPA in order to progressively and
systematically identify industrial water polluters and assess
the industrial sector needs for water pollution control financing.
Section 5.06. CETESB shall:
(a) exercise its powers and fulfill its responsibilities
under Article 6 of the State's Decree No. 8468, as such Decree may
be amended for purposes of Section 6.01 (f) of the Loan Agreement
and of paragraph (f) (iii) and (iv) of Section 2.02 of the Loan
Agreement, and in accordance with the Air Pollution Control
Strategy and with the Water Pollution Control Strategy; and
(b) whenever CETESB shall have determined the need of
closing a plant of an industry referred to in the Federal Pollu-
tion Control Legislation: (i) request the State to file a petition
with the Borrower for purposes of such Federal Pollution Control
Legislation; (ii) inform the Bank of any such request; and (iii)
furnish the Bank with all such information in respect of any such
request or petition as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 5.07. CETESB shall, before approving each of the
Sub-projects for water pollution control to be carried out in the
area covered by SANEGRAN, seek SABESP's technical opinion, in
connection with such Sub-project in respect of the matters
referred to in (i) and (ii) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement.
Section 5.08. CETESB shall take all necessary steps to
encourage the participation in training courses and seminars, to
be included in Sub-projects for Technical Assistance, of members
of the staff of agencies and administrative subdivisions of each
of the States of the Borrower who are involved in the control of
environmental pollution.
ARTICLE VI
Additional Covenants of SABESP
Section 6.01. SABESP shall, as and when needed for purposes
of the Project, provide technical assistance to CETESB.
Section 6.02. SABESP shall, when so required by CETESB
pursuant to Section 5.07 of this Agreement, furnish CETESB with


﻿- 12 -
SABESP's technical opinion concerning: (i) the timing of any
investment to be made under the Sub-project in question in view of
the timetable for on-going and future works under SANEGRAN; and
(ii) the definition of parameters to be applied under such Sub-
project for the discharge of pre-treated effluents in the SANEGRAN
system.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 7.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP thereunder shall
terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so
notify the State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP thereof.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by chis Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the State:
Governador do Estado de São Paulo
Palacio dos Bandeirantes
São Paulo
Brasil
Telex:
(011) 23125
For BADESP:
Avenida Paulista,
1776-60 Andar
São Paulo
'Brasil
Cable address:                     Telex:
DESENVOLVIMENTO                    (011) 22763
São Paulo, Brasil
For CETESB:
Avenida Prof. Frederico Hermann Jr. 345
CEP 05459
So Paulo
Brasil
Telex:
(011) 22246
For SABESP:
Rua Costa Carvalho, 300
CEP 05429
São Paulo
Brasil
Telex:
(011) 21089


﻿- 14 -
Section 8.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
pursuant to this Agreement, on behalf of the State, may be taken
or executed by the Governor of the State or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing. Any modification or
amplification of the provisions of this Agreement may be agreed to
on behalf of the State by written instrument executed on behalf of
the State by such Governor or any person thereunto authorized
in writing by him; provided that, in the opinion of such represen-
tative, such modification or amplification is reasonable under the
circumstances and will not substantially increase the obligations
of the State under this Agreement. The Bank may accept the execu-
tion by such Governor or other person of any such instrument as
conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such representative
any modification or amplification of the provisions of this
Agreement effected by such 1instrument is reasonable in the circum-
stances and will not substantially increase the obligations of the
State hereunder.
(b) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of BADESP may be taken or executed by its President
or such other person or persons as such President shall designate
in writing, and BADESP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
(c) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of CETESB may be taken or executed by its President
or such other person or persons as such President shall designate
in writing, and CETESB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
(d) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of SABESP may be taken or executed by its President
or such person or persons as such President shall designate in
writing, and SABESP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 8.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreemqnt to be signed in their respective names in the City of
, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and
year f rst above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF SAO PAULO
Authorized Repres ntative
BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO ESTADO
DE SAO PAULO S.A. - BADESP
By /S/ (  Z4T-4                                 4
Authorized Representative
CETESB - COMPANHIA DE TECNOLOGIA DE
SANEAMENTO AMBIENTAL
Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO
ESTADO DE SA0 PAULO - SAESP
By
B  Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /   L   day of  AL, 19*_.
FOR SECRETARY


