OFFICIAL.
DOCUMEYTS    LOAN NUMBER 1822 BR
Loan Agreement
(Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO
Dated                             , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1822 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   / BA       , 1980, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO
ECONOMICO (hereinafter called BNDE).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist, by
making the Loan as hereinafter provided, in the financing of the
Project described in Section 2.01 of a project agreement (such
agreement hereinafter called the Project Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Bank and the State of S2o Paulo (a politi-
cal subdivision of the Borrower hereinafter called the State) and
Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sgo Paulo S.A. - BADESP, a
development bank created and operating under the laws of the
Borrower and the State and on which the State owns a majority
interest (hereinafter called BADESP), and CETESB-Companhia de
Tecnologla de Saneamento Ambiental (hereinafter called CETESB)
and Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sgo Paulo-SABESP
(hereinafter called SABESP), both companies created and operating
under the laws of the Borrower and the State and on which the
State owns a majority interest;
(B) the Project will be carried out by BADESP, CETESB and
SABESP with the assistance of the Borrower and of the State and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the State the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided and the
State will pay such proceeds into PROCOP (as hereinafter defined)
for purposes of the Project as provided in the Project Agreement;
(C) the State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP have agreed to
undertake severally certain obligations towards the Bank as are
set forth in the Project Agreement; and
(D) BNDE, a development bank wholly owned by, and created
and operating under the laws of, the Borrower, has been appointed
by the Borrower as its financial agent (agente financeiro) for
purposes of the Project and, as such, BNDE has agreed to undertake
such obligations towards the Bank as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon


﻿-2-
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between BNDE on behalf and as financial agent of
the Borrower and the State and BADESP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) "FESB" means the State's Fundo Estadual de Saneamento
Basico, a fund established by the State's Lei -No. 10107 dated
May 8, 1968, as amended by Decreto-Lei No. 172, dated December 22,
1969, and by Lei No. 87, dated December 14, 1972, and as regulated
by the State's Decrees mentioned in paragraph (o) of this Section,
by the State's Decrees No. 14806, dated March 4, 1980, which
establishes a program for purposes of financing the control
of industrial sources of environmental pollution, and No. 14807,
dated March 4, 1980, which establishes a sub-account, within
FESB, to be used solely as the exclusive channel of funds specifi-
cally segregated for purposes of the aforementioned program, and
by the Deliberago No.        dated               , 1980, of the
State's Junta de Coordenaqo Financeira whereby BADESP is ap-
pointed as administrator of such sub-account; and "PROCOP" means
the aforementioned sub-account within FESB that will be managed by
BADESP.


﻿-3-
(c) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by BADESP, as administrator of and out of funds credited to
PROCOP, and to be financed totally or partially out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, to an Investment Enterprise (as the term is
defined in paragraph (e) below) for a Sub-project (as the term is
defined in paragraph (g) below); and "free-limit sub-loan" means a
sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
(d) "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made
by BADESP, as administrator of and out of funds credited to
PROCOP, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to
CETESB for a Sub-project consisting of Technical Assistance (as
the term is defined in paragraph (q) below) or purchase of equip-
ment related thereto.
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an entity, which has been
established, and begun its operations in the State, on or before
the date of this Agreement and to which BADESP, as administrator
of and out of funds credited to PROCOP, proposes to make or has
made a sub-loan.
(f) "Small or Medium Investment Enterprise" means an Invest-
ment Enterprise with annual gross sales amounting to not more than
the equivalent of 333,000 ORTNs (as the term is defined in para-
graph (m) below) cr $4,000,000, whichever is higher, and which
does not belong to an industrial group of entities with consoli-
dated equity amounting to more than the higher of 1,000,000 ORTNs
equivalent or $12,000,000 equivalent. For purposes of this defi-
nition, the annual gross sales to be taken into account will be
those corresponding to the fiscal year of the Investment Enter-
prise in question immediately preceding its fiscal year during
which BADESP, as administrator of PROCOP, proposes to make or
has made a sub-loan to such Investment Enterprise.
(g) "Sub-project" means a specific water or air pollution
control project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan and which, except for the
cases referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment, does not result in or from the expansion of a plant, or a
specific Technical Assistance (as the term is defined in paragraph
(q) below) project to be carried out by CETESB ut"lizing the
proceeds of a grant and which may include the purchase of equip-
ment related thereto.
(h) "Cruzeiro" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-
(I)  "Foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the cur-
rency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.
(j)  "State Pollution Control Legislation" means Law No. 898
of December 18, 1975, Law No. 997 of May 31, 1976 as amended by
Law No. 1874 of December 8, 1978, Decree No. 8468 of September 8,
1976 as amended for purposes of paragraph (f) (iii) and (iv) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and of paragraph (f) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement, Law No. 1172 of November 17, 1976, Decree
No. 9714 of April 19, 1977, Decree No. 10229 of August 29, 1977
and Decree No. 10755 of November 22, 1977 as amended for purposes
of Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement, all of the State.
(k)  "Federal Pollution Control Legislation" means the
Borrower's Decree Law No. 1413 dated August 14, 1975, as regu-
lated by the Borrower's Decree No. 76389 dated October 3, 1975,
and as further regulated by the Borrower's Decree No. 81107
dated December 22, 1977.
(1)  "GSPA" means Regi2o Metropolitana da Grande S2o Paulo,
the greater Sgo Paulo metropolitan area as defined in the
Borrower's Lei Complementar No. 14 dated June 8, 1973.
(m) "ORTN" means Obrigag6es Reajustaveis do Tesouro Na-
cional, the Borrower's Adjustable Federal Treasury Bonds issued
pursuant to the Borrower's Loan No. 4357, dated July 16, 1964,
as amended from time to time.
(n) "CETESB's Legislation" means the State's Law No. 118 of
June 29, 1973 and Decree No. 5993 of April 16, 1975, and the term
includes all norms of the State Pollution Control Legislation and
of the Estatutos of CETESB, as amended up to December 17, 1977,
which empower CETESB to carry out its operations in accordance
with CETESB's Legislation.
(o) "Steering Committee" means the Orientation Council of
FESB composed of:   the State's Secretaries of Works and Environ-
ment (Chairman), Metropolitan Affairs, Economy and Planning,
Industry and Commerce, and Finance, and representatives of Banco
do Estado de Sgo Paulo, BADESP, CETESB, SABESP and the Depart-
ment of Water and Power (DAEE), as established by the State's
Decree No. 907, dated December 29, 1972, as amended by Decrees No.
3351, dated February 13, 1974, No. 3436, dated March 20, 1974 and
No. 14807, dated March 4, 1980.


﻿-5-
(p) "By-laws" means the By-laws of PROCOP approved by the
Steering Committee, as envisaged by Section 6.01 (d) of this
Agreement.
(q) "Technical Assistance" means the provision of services
for technical assistance in pollution control matters, and the term
includes research, monitoring and training activities, consulting
services, fellowships, and the carrying out of studies.
(r) "SANEGRAN" means Projeto de Esgotos Sanitarios da
Regifo Metropolitana de Sgo Paulo - Plano Diretor (Sewage Col-
lection and Treatment Master Plan for the GSPA) approved by the
State on December 28, 1976 and the term includes any change to
such Master Plan.
(s) "Water Pollution Control Strategy" means the strategy
set forth in the letter from the State to the Bank of even
date herewith, as such strategy may be changed from time to time
by agreement between the Bank and the State.
(t) ,"Air Pollution Control Strategy" means a 10-year stra-
tegy for particulate matter control satisfactory to the Bank and
the State which has been accepted for purposes of paragraph (f)
(iv) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, as such strategy may be
changed from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the
State.
(u) "SEMA" means the Borrower's Secretaria Especial do Meio
Ambiente, the Borrower's Special Secretariat for the Environment,
or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
eight million dollars ($58,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account by BNDE, on behalf of the Borrower, in
respect of amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for
amounts to be paid) by BADESP, as administrator of PROCOP, on
account of withdrawals from PROCOP made by:


﻿~0
(i) an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan, to
meet the lower of: (A) 33% of the reasonable
cost of goods, civil works, services and permanent
working capital required for the Sub-project
consisting of control of air pollution in respect
of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is
requested; or (B) 100% of the sub-loan in respect
of such Sub-project; or
(ii) an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan, to meet
the lower of: (A) 28% of the reasonable cost of
goods, civil works, services and permanent working
capital required for the Sub-project consisting of
control of water pollution in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; or
(B, 100% of the sub-loan in respect of such Sub-
project; or
(iii) CETESB under a grant, to meet 100% of foreign
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and serv-ces required for the Sub-project
consisting of Technical Assistance o: purchase of
equipment related thereto in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested;
provided, however, that: (1) no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a sub-loan or a grant unless (aa) the sub-loan or the
grant shall have been approved by the Bank or (bb) the sub-loan
shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account; and (2) the per-
centages set forth in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this para-
graph may be changed by the Bank, in respect of a specific Sub-
project, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) or paragraph (g) of this Section, as the case may
be.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
if a Sub-project shall include a substantial change in the tech-
nological or productive processes of any plant of the Investment
Enterprise, and the Bank shall determine (on the basis of informa-
tion to be furnished by CETESB) that the same (or substantially
similar) pollution control targets for such plant could be
achieved at a lower investment cost by means of an alternative
consisting in a direct treatment or pre-treatment solution of the
pollution control problems faced by such plant (hereinafter called


﻿-7-
"the lower cost alternative"), the Bank shall then reduce, in
respect of such Sub-project, the percentages set forth in sub-
paragraphs (i) and (ii) of paragraph (a) of this Section in the
same proportion as the hypothetical investment cost of such lower
cost alternative bears to the estimated total investment cost of
the Sub-project in question.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
if a Sub-project shall include the relocation of a plant of the
Investment Enterprise in question and such relocation has been
required by CETESB in accordance with the State Pollution Control
Legislation, and if the Bank shall determine that, as a result of
such relocation, such Sub-project results in an increased produc-
tion capacity of such plant or of the Investment Enterprise which
operates such plant, the Bank shall then reduce, in respect of
such Sub-project, the percentages set forth in subparagraphs (i)
and (ii) of paragraph (a) of this Section in the same proportion
as the hypothetical least cost for establishing a plant of similar
size and characteristics as the plant to be relocated bears
to the estimated total investment cost of the Sub-project in
question (excluding, in both cases, the cost of land). For
the purpo'se of the foregoing, the hypothetical least cost for
establishing a plant of similar size and characteristics as the
plant  to be relocated shall be limited to the cost (hypothetical
or real) of: (i) dismantling, moving and installing existing
equipment to the new location; (ii) construction or purchase of
building and equipment of similar size and characteristics as
those to be vacated and scrapped, respectively, reduced by the
fair market value (established by an independent appraiser) of the
buildings to be vacated and by the reasonable scrap value of
equipment made obsolete as a result of the relocation; and (iii)
pollution control equipment required to enable a plant of the same
size as the plant to be vacated to meet the relevant pollution
control requirement.
(d) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for a Sub-
project for control of air or water pollution (other than a
Sub-project to be carried out outside of GSPA and which is not
part of a State program satisfactory to the Bank for water or air
pollution control in the area where such Sub-project is or will be
carried out) the amount of which to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall not exceed the sum of $400,000 equiv-
alent, either by itself or when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed or proposed to be financed for such Sub-project
out of the proceeds of the Loan. The foregoing amount shall be
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.


﻿- 8 -
(e) Unless the Bank and the State shall otherwise agree, and
have so notified the Borrower and BNDE in writing, the aggregatc
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made in respect
of Sub-projects consisting of control of water and air pollution
shall not exceed the equivalent of $55,000,000.
(f) Except as the Bank and the State shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of:
(i) expenditures before the date of this Agreement;
or
(ii) (A) expenditures by an Investment Enterprise in
respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval or expenditures by CETESB in respect of a.
grant, if such expenditures shall have been made
more than 180 days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received: (1) in respect of such
oub-loan, the application and information required
by Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement and,
if applicable, Section 2.02 (d) of such Agreement;
or (2) in respect of such grant, the application
and information required by Section 2.02 (c) of the
Project Agreement; and (B) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect oi a free-limit
sub-loan, if such expendituras shall have been made
more than 180 days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such free-
limit sub-loan the request and information required
by Section 2.02 (b) and, if applicable, (d) of the
Project Agreement; or
(iii) expenditures for Sub-projects for water pollution
control unless: (A) the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 2.09 (b) of the Project
Agreement have been entered into; and (B) the
State's Decree No. 8468 has been amended and such
amendment will make possible the achievement of
the purposes of the Project in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank; or
(iv) expenditures for Sub-projects for air pollution
control unless the State has set forth particulate
matter emission standards which will make possible,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the initi-
ation of a corrective particulate matter pollution


﻿-9-
control program in the GSPA in accordance with a
strategy to be agreed between the Bank and the
State (the Air Pollution Control Strategy).
(g) The disbursement percentages set forth in sub-paragraphs
(i) and (ii) of paragraph (a) of this Section have been calculated
in compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower and the State on goods or
services or in the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or
in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower and the State, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item as required to be con-
sistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
Section 2.03. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement:
(a) ,with respect to the first of the reviews referred to in
Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement, on June 30, 1981 or the
date on which the aggregate of sub-loans authorized or approved by
the Bank reaches an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan of $22,500,000 equivalent, whichever is earlier, or, with
respect to each of the following reviews to take place in a cord-
ance with such Section 2.06 (b), sixty days from the initiation of
such review, the Bank shall have the right not to approve any
sub-loan or, in the case of free-limit sub-loans, not to authorize
any withdrawal from the Loan Account, for purposes of financing
Sub-projects carried out, or to be carried out, by Small or Medium
Investment Enterprises, unless the State and the Bank have agreed
on the method of adjustment of the outstanding principal of
sub-loans to be made to Small or Medium Investment Enterprises,
the period within which such method shall be in effect and the
date of the next review for purposes of Section 2.06 (b) of the
Project Agreement, and shall have so notified the Borrower and
BNDE; and
(b) on September 30, 1981 or the date on which the aggre-
gate of sub-loans authorized or approved by the Bank reaches
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan of
$27,000,000 equivalent, whichever is earlier (such earlier date
hereinafter called Review Date), the Bank shall have the right not
to approve any sub-loan or grant or, in the case of fr.e-limit


﻿- 10 -
sub-loans, not to authorize any withdrawal from the Loan Account,
unless the Bank has determined, on the basis of the information
received by the Bank pursuant to Section 4.03 of this Agreement
and Sections 3,04 and 5.06 (b) of the Project Agreement, that the
actions taken by the Borrower in the State of Sgo laulo under
the Federal Pollution Control Legislation during the period
between the date of this Agreement and the Review Date do not
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Air
Pollution Control Strategy and the Water Pollution Control
Strategy.
Section 2.04. Except as the Borrower, the Bank, the State
and BNDE shall otherwise agree:
(a) each application for approval of a sub-loan (other
than a free-limit sub-loan) or a grant, and each request for
authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
of a free-limit sub-loan, shall be presented to the Bank by
BADESP, as administrator of PROCOP, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraphs (a), (c) and (b), respectively, of Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement, and, when applicable, of paragraph
(d) of such Section;
(b) each such application or request shall be deemed pre-
sented or made by BNDE on behalf of the Borrower; and
(c) applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be pre-
sented to the Bank on or before March 31, 1983.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower, the State, and BNDE of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿-11 -
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
c; the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause the State and BADESP to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary or appropriate to enable the State and BADESP
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance or with the performance by CETESB and SABESP of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan,
withdrawn from time to time by BNDE from the Loan Account pursuant
to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, to the State under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between BNDE, on behalf and as
financial agent of the Borrower, and the State and BADESP (the
latter as administrator of PROCOP), under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) BNDE shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and comply with its obligations thereunder in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, BNDE and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, BNDE shall not assign, nor amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned


﻿- 12 -
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) BNDE shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial conditions of
BNDE in respect of the Project.
(b) BNDE shall, in respect of the Project: (i) have its
accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as


﻿- 13 -
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such
accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning such accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. If the Borrower shall have, pursuant to the
Federal Pollution Control Legislation and notwithstanding a
petition of the State to the contrary, determined, rejected or
cancelled the suspension of operations of a plant in the State of
Sgo Paulo, the Borrower shall, through SEMA, promptly inform the
Bank of its decision on the case and shall furnish the Bank all
information on such case as the Bank shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the State, BADESP, CETESB or SABESP shall have failed to
perform any of its respective obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(b) any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BNDE, BADESP,
CETESB or SABESP; provided, however, that this paragraph shall not
apply if any institution so dissolved or disestablished shall have
been succeeded by an institution, acceptable to the Bank, which
shall have assumed all the obligations and acquired all the rights
provided for in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement, as
the case may be, in respect of the institution so dissolved or
disestablished;
(c) BADESP, CETESB or SABESP shall have changed without the
consent of the Bank the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement, or shall have failed to
perform any of its respective obligations thereunder;
(d) a change in any Lei or Decree of the State or Deli-
berago referred to or mentioned in paragraph (b) or paragraph


﻿- 14 -
(o) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement, or in the By-laws, or in
the State Pollution Control Legislation, or in CETESB's Legisla-
tion or in the Federal Pollution Control Legislation, shall have
been made, which shall materially and adversely affect the carry-
ing out of the Project;
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Lhe State, BNDE, BADESP, CETESB or SABESP
will be able to perform its obligations under this Agreement or
under the Project Agreement, as the case may be;
(f) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the State to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any loan made to the State by Banco
Nacional da Habitaggo for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the State to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the State
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the State under
the Project Agreement; and
(g) BNDE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (c)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been


﻿- 15 -
given by the Bank to the Borrower and BNDE and to the State,
BADESP, CETESB or SABESP, as the case may be;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (d) or
paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur; and
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion on the part of BNDE under the Loan Agreement and such default
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and BNDE.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) ,that this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil;
(b) that BADESP and CETESB have entered into the contractual
arrangement referred to in Section 2.09 (a) of the Project Agree-
ment;
(c) that the State has credited PROCOP with not less than
$5,000,000 equivalent;
(d) that the Steering Committee has approved By-laws which
will make possible, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the
operation or PROCOP;
(e) that the State and Banco Nacional da Habitag5o have
entered into a loan contract satisfactory to the Bank under which
the State will borrow, for purposes of the Project, an amount
equivalent to not less than $25,800,000, and that all conditions
of effectiveness thereunder, other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(f) that the State's Law No. 997, as amended by the State's
Law No. 1874, has been regulated, and that such regulation will
make possible the achievement of the purpose of the Project in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and


﻿- 16 -
(g) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of BNDE, the State and BADESP and that all conditions of
effectiveness thereunder, other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP, and is legally
binding upon the State, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil;
(c) that the loan contract referred to in paragraph (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been duly authorized and
ratified on behalf of the State and Banco Nacional da Habitaggo
and is legally     binding upon the State and Banco Nacional da
Habitago in accordance with its terms;
(d) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized and ratified on behalf of BNDE as financial agent of the
Borrower, the State and BADESP and is legally binding upon the
Borrower, BNDE, the State and BADESP in accordance with its
terms; and
(e) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, the State, their political
subdivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or otherwise to
be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of
the Project and to enable the Borrower, the State, BNDE, BADESP,
CETESB and SABESP to perform all of their obligations pursuant to
this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date                     , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Secton 11.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower and of BNDE;
Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edif cio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 - Brasilia, DF
Brasil
,Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                             611506
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BNDE:
Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
Avenida Rio Branco, 53
20090 - Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brasil


﻿- 18 -
Cable address:                         Telex:
BADEC                                 2122466
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Section 7.03. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of BNDE may be taken or executed
by its President or such other person or persons as such President
shall designate in writing, and BNDE shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
(b) Any action taken by BNDE in accordance with paragraph
(a) above pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement
shall be deemed, for purposes of this Agreement, taken on behalf
of the Borrower.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of
c ~, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day
and ye   first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By/5f ,JIC L k /A-      Z7
Authorized Represen   ive
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO
By                                          o
Authorized Representative
By I6Ae
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1983
through   September 1, 1994                 2,415,000
On March 1, 1995                                 2,455,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced
by the following new paragraph:
"11. The term 'Project' means the Project for which
the Loan is granted, as described in Section 2.01 of the
Project Agreement (as the term is defined in the
Loan Agreement) and as the description thereof may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower, the Bank and the State of S2o Paulo."
(2) The word "Sub-projects" is added after the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) 'Section 6.03 is de'eted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under,
or referred in, paragraphs (a) and (b) of such Section and
paragraphs (a) through (c) of Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement shall have been received by the Bank in respect of
any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of
the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the
Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of
the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."
(4) Each reference to the Borrower in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 9.01 shall be read as a reference to the Borrower and
BNDE.


﻿- 22 -
(5) The words "and BNDE and the parties to the Project
Agreement" are added after the word "Guarantor" in paragraph (b),
in the third line of paragraph (c) and in the fifth line of
paragraph (i), all of Section 10.04, and the reference to the
Guarantor in the fourth line of paragraph (c) of such Section
shall be read as a reference to the Borrower.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J   L    day of        , 19J .
FOR SECRETARY


