Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19112
IMPLEMENTATION COMNLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 231 1-MAU)
March 31, 1999
Human Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Ouguiya (UM)
Annual average, US$1 equivalent
1992 = 87.03 UM
1993   120.81 UM
1994 = 123.58 UM
1995 = 129.77 UM
1996 = 137.22 UM
1997 = 142.10 UM
1998= 148.60 UM
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       - African Development Bank
AIDS       - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AMEXTIPE- Agence Mauritanienne d 'Ex&ution des Travaux d 'Interet Public pour
1 'Emploi (Mauritanian Agency for the Execution of Public Works and for
Employment)
CHN        - Centre hospitalier national (National Hospital Center)
CPPR       - Country Project Portfolio Review
CSA        - Centre de sante categorie A (Health center category A)
CSB        - Centre de sante categorie B (Health center category B)
DCA        - Development Credit Agreement
DRH        - Direction des ressources humaines (Directorate of Human Resources)
DPCS       - Direction de la planification, de la cooperation et de la statistique
(Directorate of Planning, Cooperation and Statistics)
DPM        - Direction de la pharmacie et du medicament (Directorate for Drugs)
DRASS    - Direction regionale de l 'action socio-sanitaire (Regional Health
Directorate)
ENSP       - Ecole nationale de la sante publique (National School of Public Health)
EU         - European Union
ce..... ..re                            ..i.e.ts:. JenL...s. ...   :Sbiband CalUigto Ma'davo-
-.1. ---- ,c,,    ..                                   . ... .     ti::  ---4: ............   . ......  ...............SS.!AN  E Jc    , .-,,,-ffs   al lw ,. i.w X w   a u ,  iijjj j! jjg
,. .,,. .,. . . . . . ., ....................EEEEiiSSDSLERTTi i EiR DE:E Eiiiii  SiEEEiRREEiRREiREE .E ...........   . ...     ...   .   . ................................ .......... .   i
Co Dtr Decr:asan, A,, Tluy,AC
Tas  TeamLeader:-                                As iiitr;}: ifft0 fQ0 -;;!gymid- H-  -eland- Lason, A- - :jFTH



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
FAO       - Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FP        - Family Planning
GOM       - Governnent of Mauritania
GTZ       - German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HC        - Health center
HIV       - Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
IBRD      - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       - Implementation Completion Report
IDA       - International Development Association
IEC       - Information, Education and Communication
IMF       - International Monetary Fund
KAP       - Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (survey)
KfW       - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIL       - Learning & Inovation Loan
MCH       - Maternal and Child Health
MED       - Recently named Ministere des Affaires Economiques et du Developpement
(Ministry of Economic Development); former Ministere du plan (Ministry
of Planning)
MSAS      - Ministere de la sante et des affaires sociales (Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs)
MOP       - Former Ministere du plan (Ministry of Planning); recently named
Ministere des Affaires Economiques et du Developpement (Ministry of
Economic Development)
NGO       - Non-Governmental Organization
ONS       - Office national des statistiques (National Bureau of Statistics)
PASS      - Projet d 'appui au secteur de la sante (Health Sector Investment Project)
PCU       - Project Coordination Unit
PHC       - Primary health care
PSP       - Projet Sante et Population (Health and Population Project)
RH        - Regional Hospital
SECF      - Secretariat d 'etat a la condition fiminine
(Executive Secretariat for Women's Promotion)
SDR       - Special Drawing Rights
SIP       - Sector Investment Project
STDs      - Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UM        - Unite monetaire (Ouguiya)
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
UNFPA    - United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF   - United Nations Children's Fund
UNIPAC   - UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center (Centrale d'achat et de
stockage de l'UNICEF)
USAID    - United States Agency for hiternational Development
WDR       - World Development Report
WHO       - World Health Organization
WID       - Women in Development
Wilaya    - Administrative area (equivalent to region)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2311-MAU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                i-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.          Project Background                                            I
B.          Project Objectives                                            2
C.          Project Covenants                                             3
D.          Implementation Record and Achievement of Project Objectives   3
E.          Major Factors Affecting the Project                           6
F.          Project Sustainability                                        7
G.          Bank's Performance                                            8
H.          Borrower's Performance                                        8
I.          Assessment of Outcomes                                        8
J.          Future Operations                                             9
K.          Key Lessons Learned                                          10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments                                       12
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits                                   13
Table 3:    Project Timetable                                            14
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual        14
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation                    15
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation                         20
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project                                  20
Table 8A:   Project Costs                                                22
Table 8B:   Project Financing                                            23
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits                                  24
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants                                   24
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statement                 27
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                 27
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions                                     28
Appendixes:   A.    Borrower's Contribution
B.    Map (IBRD 23274)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 2311-MAU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health and Population
Project in Mauritania, for which Credit 231 I-MAU in the amount of SDR 11.8 million (US$15.7
million equivalent) was approved on November 19, 1991, and made effective on June 2, 1992.
The credit was closed on August 30, 1998, the planned closing date. Final disbursement
took place on January 7, 1999, at which time a balance of SDR 162,000 (US$228,000 equivalent)
was canceled. Co-financing for the project was provided by the Government of Mauritania in the
amount of US$0.62 million, and by Communities in the amount of US$0.05 million.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission to Mauritania in
June 1998 consisting of consultants Jacques Waechter and Vincent Turbat. Astrid Helgeland-
Lawson, Task Team Leader, and Sergiu Luculescu, Principal Public Health Specialist and Cluster
Leader, finalized the ICR. The Report was reviewed by Nicholas Burnett, Sector Manager,
AFTH2, William Cooper, Consultant (AFC15), Hasan Tuluy, Country Director for Mauritania,
and Florent Agueh, Manager, AFTS2. The Borrower provided comments that are included as
appendixes to this ICR.
In addition to the preparatory work that took place during the Bank's project completion
mission, the ICR is also based on information from the project files and on data provided by the
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MSAS). Additional information came from field visits and
discussions held with MSAS officials. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by
facilitating the collection of information needed during the final mission, preparing its own
evaluation of the project's execution and its initial preparation work, and by commenting on the
ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(Credit 231 1-MAU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:                    Cr. 2311-MAU
Credit Amount:                    SDR 11.8 million (US$15.7 million)
Beneficiaries:                    Ministry of Health and Social Affairs,
Ministry of Planning (Economic Development) and
Executive Secretariat for the Promotion of Women
Date effective:                   June 2, 1992
Date closed:                      August 30, 1998
Co-financing:                     Govemment of Mauritania    US$0.62 million
Communities                US$0.05 million
A.    Introduction
1.    Since the beginning of the 1980s, the Government of Mauritania (GOM) embarked on a
sector strategy which aimed to provide primary health care services, including preventive
services, to the largest possible proportion of the population. During this period, GOM also
started to take action in several other key areas by promoting matemal and child health,
developing Family Planning (FP) services, promoting the status of women, and strengthening
population activities. Against this background GOM requested IDA's assistance in financing a
Health and Population project (PSP), the project under review. Prior to the PSP, the Bank had not
been involved in any other project in the health sector in Mauritania.
B.    Project Objectives
2.    The three main objectives of the project were to: (i) improve the quality and accessibility
of basic health and family planning services; (ii) assist GOM to articulate a national population
policy and define an action plan; and (iii) enhance women's ability to participate in and contribute
to the country's social and economic development.
3.    Project objectives were relevant to GOM's new policy and to the situation in the sector.
They were clearly identified and no major changes were made-although a new component
(STD/AIDS) and changes in emphasis did occur-during implementation. The strong emphasis
placed on policy reforms added to the importance of the project. The PSP reached all its
objectives. The Borrower also demonstrated its commitment to achieve the project's objectives
by meeting all covenants and making every effort needed for proper implementation.
4.    It should be stated that the formulation of PSP's development objectives did not include
quantified targets. Later on in the project implementation process, the Bank staff, in collaboration
with the national team, considered the need to retrofit the project. As the information available in
the health sector on health outcomes was only available in the form of aggregated indicators
encompassing the entire population and all districts of the country (the PSP evaluation would



11
have required data collected from the regions and districts in which the project has been active and
comparisons with a control group of districts, or, at least, reliable time series), it was decided not
to attempt to retrofit this project which at that time, was approaching its closing date. Instead, the
lessons learned were used in the design of the next project in the sector, the Health Sector
Investment Project (PASS). Consequent to this work, the PASS has been provided with a matrix
of quantified monitoring and evaluation indicators for inputs, outputs and outcomes.
Demographic and health surveys were included among activities to be conducted and financed
from the credit.
C.    Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project reached its objective to improve the quality and accessibility of basic health
and family planning services. Elements such as civil works, cost recovery and financial
management were very successful, others, such as training and support to technical programs were
reasonably successful, while those pertaining to equipment and maintenance experienced delays.
For instance, the maintenance system needs further strengthening, since during PSP
implementation GOM rightly decided to rely more on private sector services and the contracting
of maintenance services for bio-medical equipment is still in process. Another positive change to
the original project design was the funding of a new program focusing on HIV/AIDS and STDs
prevention and care.
6.    The project also reached its objective with regards to the formulation of a population
policy and action plan, which was carried out by the MED through a participatory process
involving all stakeholders and in partnership with UNFPA. The national population strategy was
adopted in June 1995, six months after the planned date, and the Population Action Plan followed
soon after. A National Population Committee was established and a Policy for Reproductive
Health was also formulated. Nevertheless, the implementation of the Population Action Plan has
been slower than envisaged.
7.    The objective aiming at promoting the status of women was successfuilly achieved. To a
very large extent, the finding made available has enabled the set up of the Executive Secretariat
for the Promotion of Women (SECF), which made possible in March 1995, the development and
adoption of a National Strategy for Promoting the Status of Women. In addition all SECF's
decentralized structures (antennes regionales) were supported and 81 micro-projects were
implemented at village level.
8.    The project became effective four months behind schedule (June 2, 1992), but was closed
as planned (August 30, 1998). Estimated financing included an IDA Credit of US$15.7 million
and GOM and beneficiary contributions estimated at US$0.7 and US$0.3 million respectively.
Actual financing amounts to US$15.79 million for IDA, US$0.62 million for GOM, and US$0.05
million for communities.
9.    Key factors that affected negatively achievement of major objectives: Restricted access to
foreign exchange affected drug purchasing on the international market (this happened in spite of
sufficient funds collected in local currency through the cost recovery scheme and it was gradually
solved during project implementation). While-generally speaking-counterpart funds were
made available, sometimes there were delays in the release of these funds. The design of the
project included three ministries (MSAS, MED and SECF) and called for the collaboration of all
major donors active in the sector. While the project unit successfully coordinated the three



111
national partners, the fact that, in Mauritania, donor programs are coordinated by the MED with a
modicum of involvement of line ministries did not contribute to the development of sufficient
coordination capacity in the MSAS. Moreover, the other donors involved in the health sector
program were not ready to start their operations when PSP became effective. As a result, the IDA
part of the health sector program, i.e. PSP, started to operate first. Lastly, weaknesses in the
Directorate for Drugs (DPM), especially in tendering, often threatened essential drug availability
and the success of the cost recovery system.
10.   Bank performance during project preparation was satisfactory. In spite of the project's
complexity, implementation was supervised satisfactorily: the supervision teams possessed the
necessary skills, made relevant recommendations and collaborated well with both GOM and
donors. The Resident Mission staff played an important role in project supervision. Similarly,
the Borrower's overall performance during project preparation and implementation was
satisfactory.
11.   Project outcomes:
(a)    Health component: By project closing, all health centers in the PSP area were providing
quality, affordable, essential drugs to their patients (UM80 per patient per episode), as compared
to the years before credit effectiveness when drugs were unavailable in health centers and patients
were buying them from private pharnacies at an average price eight times higher than their
purchasing price. The redeployment of the health personnel contributed to the improvement of
human resources distribution and improved quality of services. Today, health centers are headed
by medical doctors and health personnel of all categories have been trained and are receiving
incentives to deliver better services. Communities have also started to play a greater role in health
facilities management, and elected representatives-as well as the health care providers-are
increasingly accountable for the performance of health facilities.  Decentralization was
strengthened and regional/district management experimented and actually set up in all 13 wilayas
of the country.
(b)   Population component:  Population issues were discussed in every social stratum,
including religious leaders and local politicians, and representatives from other sectors. As a
result, awareness of these issues has tremendously increased. A population policy, an action plan
and a reproductive health policy were adopted. Many sensitive issues were discussed extensively
and solved with assistance from national and international NGOs during the preparation of the
population policy. A strong capacity was created in the Direction des ressources humaines (at the
MED), and MSAS family planning program was supported. Family planning activities have been
delivered, in an integrated manner, through the health care network of the country.
(c)    Women component: The importance of the role that women have in the development of
the country has been acknowledged at the highest political level. A circular letter from the Prime
Minister, addressed to the heads of all central institutions, dated June 15, 1997, highlighted the
importance of the adoption of the National Strategy for Promoting the Status of Women. It made
mandatory: (i) the inclusion of a WID component in all new development projects; and (ii) the
involvement of the SECF in the preparation and the supervision of any new project. Also, an
annual report on WID activities became mandatory for each ministry. Through the PSP-funded
81 micro-projects hundreds of women have gained their economic independence and 1260 women
have become literate.



iv
D.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   No specific measures were taken for the continuation of the PSP financed activities after
the project closing date, because: i) the project activities have become, since PSP inception, part
of the regular government programs in the field of health, population, nutrition and women's
promotion; ii) the cost recovery system implemented in health centers all over Mauritania is
currently being expanded to regional hospitals, thus generating additional funding and
contributing to the process of decentralization; and iii) two more credits have been prepared to
support the health sector program (see paragraph 13 below).
13.   Prior to the closing of the credit, a new IDA credit to the sector, i.e., Health Sector
Investment Project (PASS), was approved by the Board and became effective at almost the closing
time of the reviewed project. The PASS is an integrated health sector support project (SIP) having
four main objectives, to: (i) increase health services coverage and quality; (ii) improve health
financing; (iii) mitigate the effects of disease important from a public health perspective; and (iv)
strengthen the social actions conducive to better health. There is also a LIL project on Nutrition,
Food Security and Social Mobilization-approved by the Board in March 1999-to be managed
by the SECF. This last project capitalizes on the successfulwomen's component of the project
under review.
14.   The project has provided the following lessons for the health sector:
*  While a project unit could be highly effective, this implementation arrangement does not
necessarily lead to a substantial strengthening of the capacity in the sector in general. In order
to address the sector in its entirety, a sector-wide investment operation was chosen to follow
PSP;
*  While all donors have adhered to the sector policy, the PSP experience shows that donors
were rarely able to: (a) plan jointly and use the same evaluation methods; (b) use similar
procurement methods; and (c) synchronize their activities. These facts led to development of
the new Plan directeur 1998-2002 using a highly participatory process in which the donors
and NGOs were actively consulted. Also, an in-depth analysis of donor financed programs
was performed. Finally, the sector policy was further detailed, and for the first time in the
history of the country, a Three-Year Rolling Plan was discussed and agreed with the donors;
*  On the positive side, the PSP has demonstrated that GOM  was committed to the
implementation of a sound health sector policy; GOM was willing and able to tackle sensitive
and complex issues, such as family planning, reproductive health, and HIV/AIDS and STDs
prevention. This led to periodic reconsideration of the relevance of PSP objectives to the
evolving situation in the field. As a result, supplementary work focusing on STDs and
HIV/AIDS and epidemic diseases was carried out. In some cases, such as maintenance and
training, changes to the originally adopted strategy have been decided;
*  Cost recovery was also a success. It demonstrated that it can lead to an increase in the use of
public health facilities and patient satisfaction;
*  The component focusing on women demonstrated both women's capability in taking on
complex social problems and that small investments made in women's cooperatives (micro-
projects) could yield important returns.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT (PSP)
(Credit 2311-MAU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Background
1.    At the time when PSP was prepared, Mauritania found itself at the upper end scale for
low-income countries and its health situation was relatively poor. The health status of the
population in Mauritania was characterized by the strong prevalence of infectious diseases
compounded by unfavorable hygienic conditions, malnutrition, and the limited capacity of the
health system to prevent these conditions or to treat them effectively. The crude death rate was
estimated at 19 per thousand and life expectancy at birth was 46 years. Infant mortality rate was
high at 125 per thousand. Respiratory diseases, malaria, measles and diarrhea were important
causes of death and morbidity; accidents and other injuries also accounted for a large number of
consultations given in health facilities. Among adults, maternal mortality was an important cause
of death in women of reproductive age and the high fertility rate (total fertility was 6.8 children
per woman) was recognized as a major factor affecting maternal and child health.
2.    As part of its economic reform program for 1989-1991, which was based on human
resources development as a source of long-term economic growth, the Mauritanian Govenmment
(GOM) adopted measures to improve accessibility and quality of health services in the country.
The reform process was outlined in the Plan Directeur 1991-96 which aimed to: (i) decentralize
the management of health services; (ii) mobilize resources in favor of a regional health system;
(iii) redefine the central level's role emphasizing planning, technical guidance and logistical
support; and (iv) improve access to low-cost essential drugs. This document was discussed with
and endorsed by donors.
3.    With respect to population, strong pro-natalist traditions had shown signs of gradual
erosion during the last decades. In 1986, the GOM adopted a policy aiming to improve maternal
and child health and promote family planning (FP). During negotiations with the Bank and the
IMF on the Fourth Policy Framework Paper in June 1990, the GOM agreed to take steps towards
the preparation of a population policy. In April 1991, a Directorate of Human Resources was
created in the MED to prepare this policy and a population action plan. During this period, the
GOM also started to take action in several key population areas by promoting matemal and child
health, developing FP services, promoting the status of women, and strengthening demographic
research and data collection.
4.    In 1991, a coherent and comprehensive policy forthe health sector was adopted by the
major donors operating in the sector and a large project unit, with the status of division of the
MSAS, was set up to coordinate donors' input to the implementation of the policy. GOM secured



2
funding for the implementation of the health sector policy from IDA (i.e. the project under
review) and from other partners such as UNICEF, UNFPA, KfW/GTZ, AfDB.
5.    The PSP was designed to help: a) strengthen the health service system, b) develop a
national population policy, and c) strengthen the status of women. The project was IDA's first
contribution to the development of the health and population sectors in Mauritania. It also was
IDA's first contribution to the strengthening of women's status, and it helped set up, among other
things, the Executive Secretariat for Women Promotion (SECF), a ministry which has performed
convincingly and which is now being supported by many other donors.
B.    Project Objectives
6.    The main objectives of the project were to assist GOM to:
(i) improve quality of and accessibility to basic health and family planning services by
decentralizing service delivery;
(ii) adopt a national population policy and define a corresponding plan of action; and
(iii) enhance women's ability to contribute to the country's social and economic
development.
Heavy emphasis was placed on policy reforms, in all three of these areas.
7.    To achieve these objectives, the project financed investments to:
(i)    develop regional health services (US$8.44 million) through: (a) development of training
programs for health personnel; (b) development of a maintenance system for vehicles, equipment
and infrastructure; (c) strengthening of financial management at the regional level; and (d)
assistance to expand health services in the regions of Brakna, Hodh el Gharbi, and Nouakchott;
(ii)   strengthen MSAS' capacity to support regional health services and to develop priority
programs (US$2.97 million) through: (a) strengthening of technical capacity of three programs of
special emphasis (family planning, health education and nutrition). To these a fourth program on
HIV/AIDS and STDs was added at the project's mid-term review; and (b) improvement of health
personnel management and of the financial and health information system;
(iii)  define a national population policy and an action plan (US$ 0.76 million) and assist in
their implementation; and
(iv)   promote the status of women (US$ 1.40 million) through: (a) institutional support to the
SECF, including support for the development of a national strategy on Women in Development
(WID) and of an action plan; (b) assistance to SECF decentralized structures; (c) support to micro-
projects in women's cooperatives; and (d) literacy programs in women's cooperatives.
8.    Project objectives were relevant to GOM's health and FP policies. They were clearly
identified at the onset of the project and no major changes were made, although-as mentioned-
a new component (STD/AIDS) and changes in emphasis did occur during project implementation.
The strong emphasis placed on policy reforms added to the importance of the project.
9.    It should be stated that the formulation of PSP's development objectives did not foresee
quantification. Later on in the project implementation process, the Bank staff, in collaboration



3
with the national team, have considered the need to retrofit the project. As the information
available in the health sector on health outcomes was only available in the form of aggregated
indicators encompassing the entire population and all districts of the country (the PSP evaluation
would have required data collected from the regions and districts in which the project has been
active and comparisons with a control group of districts, or, at least, reliable time series), it was
decided not to attempt to retrofit this project which at that time was approaching its closing date.
Instead, the lessons learned were used in the design of the next project in the sector, the Health
Sector Investment Project (PASS). Consequent to this work, the PASS has been provided with a
matrix of quantified monitoring and evaluation indicators for inputs, outputs and outcomes.
Demographic and health surveys were included among activities to be conducted and financed
from the credit.
10.   Nonetheless, World Bank Development data (WDI 1998 CD-rom) indicate that life
expectancy at birth increased from 46 years in 1989 to 53 years in 1996; crude birth rate decreased
from 48 per thousand to 39 per thousand and crude death rate from 19 per thousand to 14 per
thousand. Total fertility rate decreased from 6.8 children per women in 1989 to 5.0 children per
women in 1996, while infant mortality rate decreased from 123 per thousand to 94 per thousand.
C.    Project Covenants
11.   The Borrower demonstrated its commitment to the project's objectives-inter alia-by
meeting all covenants, although, in some instances, with minor delays. It is worth mentioning
that compliance with these covenants required a continuous effort by GOM. At times, tough
measures were taken, such as the ones on the redeployment of health care providers to the
outreach.
12.   Project covenants of significant importance were to:
(i) implement measures regarding the recruitment and redeployment of the MSAS
personnel, such as adopting a personnel redeployment and recruitment plan for 1992-96;
(ii) evaluate the cost recovery experience;
(iii) adopt a national population policy and an action plan for its implementation;
(iv) increase the share of the health sector recurrent budget from the total public recurrent
budget to 5.5% in 1992, (and by additional increments of 0.5% per year) to reach 7.5% in
1996;
(v) for each health region, maintain a separate budget chapter for essential drugs and
consumables; and
(vi) ensure (in real terms) annual budget allocations for regions greater than UM60
million for essential drugs and UM 90 million for other recurrent expenditures.
D.    Implementation Record and Achievement of Project Objectives
13.   The PSP reached its objectives, and has been consi,dered very successful by GOM,the
population and a majority of observers. The strong emphasis placed on policy reforms added to
the importance of the project, while the delivery of quality services made it attractive to the media
and beneficiaries.



4
14.   The following highlights the most important achievements:
Objective 1: Improve the quality and accessibility of basic health andfamily planning services.
* Training. More than five hundred staff of all health personnel categories were trained (see
annex 5 for details). Further to GOM decision to first train the trainers and to develop a national
capacity for post-graduate medical training (National Institute for Medical Specialties), staff from
the National Hospital Center (CHN) and other specialized facilities were sent abroad to be trained
in surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics and emergency pediatrics.  PSP also financed
rehabilitation works at the National Institute for Medical Specialties. These activities made
possible the training of regional clinical health personnel at a smaller cost. Other activities were
conducted to train the regional health managers to work more independently from the center and,
hereby, to foster decentralization.
* With regards to the maintenance of vehicles, equipment and infrastructure, GOM opted
initially to strengthen the 'Service national de Gestion des Equipements Hospitaliers " and to set
up a regional maintenance system to become part of the Regional Health Directorate (DRASS).
The project financed buildings, equipment and training, for maintenance, as planned. However,
during project implementation, GOM realized that the task of maintaining the medical equipment
had become more complex than initially anticipated. Consultation with donors, including the
Bank, took place and the office of the Prime Minister examined this issue. It was rightly felt that
public resources should not be invested in an area in which the private sector performs more
efficiently. A first test followed: GOM awarded a contract to maintain the bio-medical
equipment to a national private company, using public resources and some financial assistance
from the EU. At the same time the cost recovery system started to generate funds which also
enabled health facilities to use the private sector for smaller equipment maintenance. The new
maintenance strategy, currently in the making, relies upon:
i) the use of the public sector's maintenance capacity developed so far to: a) manage the
contracts to be developed with the private sector (quality control, verification of costs of
services, etc.); and b) provide small maintenance and preventive maintenance services;
and
ii) the use of the private sector, to provide most of specialized maintenance services, such
as the maintenance for biomedical equipment.
At the date of the writing of this report, GOM had already started the process of obtaining a
service provider for bio-medical equipment maintenance through intemational competitive
bidding.
* Regarding the strengthening offinancial management andplanning, all objectives have been
reached. Budgeting, financial management procedures and a long-term financing plan for regions
have been developed. Conditionalities relating to decentralized budgets for regions and essential
drugs have also been met. Studies on the effectiveness and impact of the cost recovery system
have been carried out; their results show clearly that there has been a significant increase in the
utilization of primary health care facilities (due mainly to the availability of affordable essential
drugs) while keeping financial accessibility to drugs and services at a rate of about 90%. In 1996,
about UM276 million (US$ 1.9 million), were collected in primary health care facilities through
cost recovery. This amount represented about 50% of the recurrent expenditure for primary health
care during that year.



5
* The civil works program was achieved at a rate above 100% since more construction and
rehabilitation works than initially planned were carried out. Besides the civil works to expand the
network of health care services, PSP funded additionally the offices of the Information, Education
and Communication (IEC) Service of the MSAS and of the Directorate of Human Resources
(DRH) of the Ministry of Economic Development (MED), a drug central store for the Directorate
of Pharmacy and Drugs (DPM) and the rehabilitation of the buildings of the National School of
Public Health (ENSP) and of the National Institute of Medical Specialties.
* In the area of health education, the MSAS IEC service was equipped and provided with
appropriate work space, and substantial technical support was made available by means of a
contract with the IEC specialized branch of the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United
Nations (FAO). The work led to the development of an IEC policy and plan of action. The
project also financed health education services provided by radio and TV.
* The nutrition service of MSAS, in which UNICEF was particularly active, was similarly
supported (personnel training, equipment, support to supervision activities, etc.). A nutrition
survey was conducted in three wilayas, weaning foods prepared on the basis of local produce were
developed, and extensive nutrition education activities were also conducted by means of the PSP
component executed by SECF (in women's cooperatives). The success of this last set of activities
inspired GOM and the Bank to collaborate further and resulted in a Nutrition, Food Security and
Social Mobilization Project (Nutrition LIL), to be executed by the SECF.
* Activities relating to family planning were carried out in partnership with UNFPA and
consisted of support to family planning services provided in 53 health centers, and to the MSAS
central program. Taking into account the emerging HIV/AIDS epidemic, to the three initial
programs of special emphasis, a fourth one was added, during the mid-tern review. This program
focuses on HIV/AIDS and STDs prevention and care. The project provided support by training
the personnel, purchasing reagents for blood tests and by organizing seminars.
* Personnel management has significantly improved and redeployment of personnel to regions
has been undertaken. Regulations for personnel posting were enforced for the very first time in
1994, and have continually been re-enforced ever since. With assistance from the project, a
national census of the health personnel was carried out and a computerized system to manage
health care providers was set up. Moreover, consultant support was provided to assess the needs
in various personnel categories and to develop a human resources development plan. This plan is
now being used to plan training activities and to make decisions on personnel redeployment.
Financial management has also significantly improved and a Management Information System
has been set up.
* The component also included support to increase the availability of affordable essential
drugs to the population and to reform the national drug procurement and distribution system. To
this end, the DPM was supported from the credit and the drug situation, including the availability
of funds for essential drugs, regularly monitored.  Nonetheless, the fact that an AfDB
intervention-targeting specifically the DPM-was delayed, has diminished DPM performance.



6
Objective 2: Formulation of a population policy and an action plan.
*     The project reached its objective with regard to the formulation of a population policy and
action plan. These activities were carried out by MED through a participatory process involving
all stakeholders and in partnership with UNFPA. The national population strategy was adopted in
June 1995, six months after the planned date, and the population action plan followed soon after.
A National Population Committee was established and a Policy for Reproductive Health was also
formulated. Both documents were adopted at the end of a wide consensus-building process
during which the main stakeholders, including religious leaders, were consulted. Nevertheless,
the implementation of the population action plan was slower than anticipated due to its
complexity and, perhaps, too ambitious goals. The Human Resources Department at MED, which
was created with substantial support from the credit, is now a reliable and proficient partner which
continues to operate GOM and UTNFPA funding. As a follow-up to PSP support to population
activities, the Bank agreed to contribute to the forthcoming population census.
Objective 3: Promoting the status of women.
*     The objective aiming at promoting the status of women, despite a slower start, was
successfully achieved. To a very large extent, the funding made available enabled the set up of
the SECF, which led in March 1995 to the development and adoption of a National Strategy for
Promoting the Status of Women. Training for personnel, first from the central level, followed by
personnel from regions and districts, was carried out. This objective was structured along the
following lines: (i) institutional strengthening of the SECF, which was fully achieved; (ii)
assistance to SECF decentralized structures, which was also fully achieved; (iii) micro-projects;
and (iv) functional literacy for women in cooperatives benefiting from micro-projects. By the end
of the project, only 81 of the 96 originally planned micro-projects were functional. Nonetheless,
micro-projects continue to be implemented after the closing date of the project under review with
financial support from other donors (UNDP and UNICEF) and IDA (through the Nutrition LIL),
and they are an unqualified success. Through the 81 micro-projects hundreds of women have
gained their economic independence and 1260 women have become literate.
E.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   The country's macro-economic situation, and especially the restricted access to foreign
exchange, slowed down drug procurement from the international market. While drugs were
generally available throughout the project life, stocks were occasionally low. Such situations
were corrected, mostly by purchasing drugs from UNICEF, and did not endanger the successful
cost recovery system (which is based on recovering-in full-the cost of essential drugs and-in
part-the cost of services provided to patients) or the health delivery system in general (since
health facility utilization greatly depends on drug availability).
16.   MSAS's weak management and technical capacity, the frequent change of ministers and
the lack of experience with Bank projects (this was the first health project) brought about a slow
start of operations (as training of staff and other measures to strengthen MSAS capacity took more
time than initially planned). However, the project implementation unit proved to be extremely
effective and its performance was praised with the opportunity of CPPR exercises. It was
particularly effective during the project's second phase and this enabled the project to run



7
smoothly, disburse the entirety of the credit, close as scheduled and achieve the development
objectives in a satisfactory manner.
17.   Other factors that have affected the project include:
(i) disagreements between the Comission centrale des marches and MSAS which resulted
in delays and, in some cases, in the cancellation of the acquisition of goods or services
(radiological equipment, for instance);
(ii) suspension, for a period of four months in 1996 and for reasons which remain
unknown, of the project coordinator by the Cour des comptes;
(iii) difficult working conditions (due to the geographical situation of the rural area
covered by the project, poor roads and inadequate means of communication); and
(iv) unclear public sector human resources policy, poor economic development in some
rural areas, and insufficient incentives to health providers to work in remote areas which
made difficult the achievement of the otherwise strongly recommended health personnel
redeployment plan.
18.   Among the factors contributing to the success of the project there were:
(a) Borrower's commitment to the project's objectives (demonstrated-inter alia-by the
fact that all legal covenants were met);
(b) the good performance at the Project Coordination Unit and, in particular, its
procurement management and financial management capacity; and
(c) the involvement and integration of regional staff in both the preparation and
implementation of the project.
F.    Project sustainability
19.   No specific measures were taken for the continuation of the project, after its closing date,
because PSP project activities became, since its inception, part of the regular health, population,
and women promotion programs. Nonetheless, IDA support to the sector continued by the
launching of two new projects (PASS and Nutrition LIL).
20.   Due to PSP, cost recovery is now being implemented in health centers throughout
Mauritania and it is in the process of being expanded to regional hospitals. Due to an average
mark up of 200% systematically applied to drug prices, the system generates enough funds to
allow drug stocks replenishment and also finances: (i) recurrent expenditures (including
maintenance); and (ii) staff incentives. Cost recovery is well accepted by the population as it
guarantees the access to good quality services, quality and affordable essential drugs (the 200%
mark up generates prices which are still seven to eight times lower than drug prices in the private
sector).
21.   The shift from a policy promoting a fast population growth to one of birth spacing seems
to be irreversible. Family planning is now rather well accepted by all categories of the population
and modem contraceptive means are included in the basic health package. Similarly, the
importance of women's contribution to development has received full recognition due to the
activities carried out by the SECF. A recent decree from the Prime Minister made it mandatory to



8
all ministries to consult with and to report to the SECF specific activities conducted to promote
women status in the society.
G.    Bank's Performance
22.   Bank performance during project preparation was satisfactory. IDA preparation missions
began in 1987, and project appraisal took place in May 1991. One hundred sixteen (116.3) staff-
weeks were needed from project identification to Board approval. This is above the average
length of time and staff input spent on most health projects in Africa, but was necessary due to the
Borrower's inexperience with Bank projects and a relatively complex project design.
23.   The Bank's performance during project implementation was satisfactory.  Fifteen
supervision missions amounting to 150.5 staff-weeks from Board approval to completion were
carried out. Technical assistance was provided for each project component by appropriate
specialized staff (12 different specialists participated in the supervision missions). The follow-up
of supervision was also adequate. It is also worth mentioning that in some instances, a firm
attitude was used to ensure conditionality observance (especially on budget and staff
redeployment) from the Borrower. These occurrences, however, did not affect the good working
relationship that existed between the Borrower and IDA. The open mindedness of Bank staff with
regards to the adaptation of the project to newly emerging situations, especially with regards to
AIDS, maintenance of vehicles, equipment and infrastructure, human resources policy and staff
training, a careful Midterm Review and resource reallocation have been essential factors
contributing to a satisfactory project implementation.
H.    Borrower's performance
24.   The Borrower's overall performance during project preparation was highly satisfactory.
The Borrower's commitment to the project during preparation and implementation, as well as its
ability to take corrective measures, should be emphasized. Most impressive was GOM's
determination to tackle very sensitive issues such as cost recovery, FP and the status of women.
25.   During the course of the project, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory with
regards to: (a) project management, (b) the achievement of components such as civil works and
cost recovery in the health sector, (c) the elaboration of a population policy and strategy, and (d)
the promotion of the components focusing on women. The Borrower's performance was less than
satisfactory with regards to overall donor coordination in the sector and drug procurement.
Moreover, while good management and financial management capacity was developed at the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), the overall management capacity of the MSAS has yet to be
strengthened.
I.    Assessment of Outcomes
26.   By project closing, all health centers in the project area were able to provide quality,
affordable essential drugs price (UM80 per patient per episode) to their patients as compared to
the years before credit effectiveness. Prior to the project, (the supposedly free of charge) drugs
were unavailable in health centers and patients had to buy them from private pharmacies on an



9
average at prices eight times higher than in public facilities. The human resources situation was
improved: health centers are now headed by medical doctors and the health personnel of all
categories has been trained (see annex 5 for details) and is receiving incentives to deliver better
services. Communities have also become involved in health facility management. Their elected
representatives, as well as the health personnel, are increasingly more accountable for the
performance of their respective health service.  Decentralization was strengthened and
regional/district management was set up.
27.   Main population issues were discussed in every social stratum and, as a result, awareness
on reproductive health issues has tremendously increased throughout Mauritania. A population
policy, an action plan, and a reproductive health policy were adopted. Many sensitive issues were
extensively discussed during the preparation of the population policy and continue to be on
GOM's agenda (such as the issue of female genital mutilation).
28.   The importance of the role that women have in the development of the country was
acknowledged at the highest political level. A circular letter from the Prime Minister, dated June
15, 1997, highlighted the importance of the National Strategy for Promoting the Status of Women.
It made mandatory: (i) the inclusion of a WID component in all new development projects and (ii)
the involvement of the SECF in the preparation and the supervision of any such project.
Moreover, an annual report on activities to promote women became mandatory. Such a report
should be transmitted by each line ministry to the SECF. Through 81 micro-projects (in areas
such as agriculture, livestock and fish processing) hundreds of women have gained their economic
independence and about 1260 women have become literate.
J.    Future Operations
29.    Prior to the closing of the PSP, a new credit to the sector was approved by the Board in
March 1998 and became effective in October 1998. Drawing upon the PSP, this new Health
Sector Investment Project (PASS) has for its main objectives to: (i) increase coverage; (ii)
improve health financing; (iii) mitigate the effects of diseases of public health importance; and
(iv) strengthen social action to create an environment conducive to.health. It focuses on: (a)
accessibility and quality of health services, (b) availability of essential drugs, (c) prevention of
diseases, and (d) higher efficiency in service delivery by improving the performance of the health
sector administration and the coordination of donors and NGOs programs. This operation
provides support to the implementation of GOM's strategy for the health sector as set forth in its
Plan Directeur 1998-2002.
30.   Population activities will be further supported by the PASS project within which
important financial support to the population census and to demographic and health surveys is
foreseen.
31.   A LIL project on nutrition (Nutrition, Food Security and Social Mobilization) to be
managed by the SECF was approved in March 1999. This should result in the further
strengthening of the SECF but, more importantly, in the further development of grass-roots
initiatives.



10
K.    Key Lessons Learned
32.   The health and population project was a novelty for Mauritania. Several lessons, helpful
for future health operations in Sub-Saharan Africa countries, have been learned.
Project Management:
With regard to management, the main lesson learned was that a project management unit,
can be very effective, but that this does not necessarily help develop MSAS capacity.  As a
consequence, at project closing, unless the project management unit staff is kept in the
administration, part of the investment is lost. The MSAS has successfully drawn from this lesson
with the opportunity of the second credit for the health sector (PASS): GOM opted for a project
implemented by the entire health sector administration with emphasis on capacity building, and
strengthened the capacity of key MSAS departments with the best performing PSP personnel.
*     Donor Coordination:
It became clear during the implementation of the Plan Directeur that GOM's capacity to
coordinate donors was insufficient and that only a few donors had a more global and long term
perspective. As a result coordination of various partners was difficult and joint activity planning
under GOM leadership failed. In Mauritania this lesson led to the development of a new sector
policy (Plan directeur 1998-2002) with a fuller commitment of stakeholders and a carefully
designed consensus process. This was followed by the development of improved planning and
management instruments (Three-year Rolling Plan, Annual Operational Plan) and the
strengthening of donor coordination function within the MED and MSAS.
Monitoring and evaluation indicators:
Some of the PSP monitoring and evaluation indicators, as designed at project preparation
stage, were rather general. As a result, while inputs and outputs were clearly measurable, the
outcome indicators chosen did not allow for the assessment of the impact of the credit on the
health status of the population. Consequent to this lesson, the PASS was provided with a matrix
of quantified monitoring and evaluation indicators for inputs, outputs and outcomes and
demographic and health surveys were included among activities to be conducted and financed
from the credit.
*     Cost Recovery:
PSP demonstrated that cost recovery, when accompanied by real advantages for patients
(such. as availability of affordable quality drugs and of well qualified and motivated health
providers), can lead to an increase in the use of public health facilities. However, it might also
result in a decline in preventive care (if curative services are the only ones to yield resources and
to motivate healthcare providers). The lesson learned was that incentives to motivate the health
personnel to deliver preventive services and to provide care to the poorest population groups
should be developed and preventive care and equity aspects ought to be continuously monitored.
*     Role of Women:
The successful collaboration with SECF helped convince everybody that women play a
major role in health status improvement and in economic growth, and that they are capable of
managing rather complex operations successfully. Therefore, health project designers should
consistently seek ways to directly involve women. This lesson was applied in the design of the
Nutrition LIL which aims at improving children's nutrition status using community based
interventions carried out in women's cooperatives.



I1
*     Community Involvement:
Community involvement is one of the major keys for success and this has been
demonstrated throughout this project. The fact that communities were already well organized and
that GOM was committed to decentralization proved to be a real asset for the success of the
project and especially of the cost recovery system.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES



12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives              Substantial       Partial       Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                                 EI LC]                                          m
Sector policies                                m                 ]             L              L
Financial objectives                         [Z               FT ]
Institutional development                    m                                                 LI
Physical objectives                            x                 I             [a 
Poverty reduction                            [                [X                                 ]
Gender issues                                  m                                L             LIa
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                                      [I]
Public sector management                      L                 m                             [Ii
Private sector development                    L                L                  E           L
Other (capacity building)                                                                     FE Z   [E
B. Project sustainability                   Likely                  Unlikely               Uncertain
C. Bank performance                         Highly
satisfactosy             Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                                                         F m 
Preparation assistance                       [                           [ 
Appraisal                                    [                                                LI
Supervision                                                            [  ]
D. Borrower performance                     Highly
satisfactory             Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                                                              [  ]
Implementation                                                           LI 0I
Covenant compliance (counterpart funds)          LE [  
Operation (if applicable)                         I                                           Li]
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly                                                     Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactory
LI             W                   LI                  LIIx-



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LoANs/CREDITs
Credit title        Purpose                                               Year of      Status
approval
Preceding           None
operations
Following operation
Health Sector       The Project is proposed to support the implementation of    FY 1998  The project became
Investment Project   the GOM' s program for the health sector during the period        effective October 27,
1998-2002. The overall objective of the Program is to             1998.
improve the health status of the population in general (and
of underserved groups in particular) through the provision
of more accessible and affordable quality health services.
The Program's specific objectives are to: (a) improve
health services quality and coverage; (b) improve health
sector's financing and performance; (c) mitigate the effect
of major public health problems; and (d) promote social
action and create an environment conducive to health.
The project will provide fimancial support to achieve all
these objectives.
Nutrition, Food     The project's objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of    FY 1999  Approved by the
Security and Social   specific nutrition activities combined into two different        Board in March 1998
Mobilization Project  "prototypes" of programs, one urban and one rural, to            and negotiated in
(LIL)               reduce in a measurable way child malnutrition in                   October 1998.
Mauritania. The components include: growth monitoring
of children (0-5 years), nutritional supplements to pregnant
women and lactating mothers, income generating
activities, microgrants, IEC and social mobilization.
The Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition Feminine will be in
charge and will rely on the National Statistics Institute
(ONS) to assess the project.



14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                           Date planned                      Date actuall
Latest estimate
Identification                                                                      1987-1988
Preparation                                                                    May 1988-Feb. 1989
Appraisal                                                                           May 1991
Negotiations                                                                        Sept. 1991
Board presentation                                 Oct. 1991                      Nov. 19,1991
Signing                                                                           March 2, 1992
Effectiveness                                      Feb. 1992                       June 2, 1992
Midterm review                                                                    June24, 1995
Project completion                                                                Feb.28, 1998
Credit closing                                   Aug. 30,1998                     Aug. 30,1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ Millions)
Fiscal Year            Appraisal estimate             Actual                Actual as %  of estimate
1992                   0.4                           0.49                    122
1993                   3.3                            1.82                  55
1994                   6.0                           4.14                   69
1995                   9.3                           5.39                   58
1996                   12.6                          8.59                   68
1997                   14.9                           13.45                 90
1998                   15.6                           15.91                  102
1999                   15.7                           16.51                  105
Source: Loan database January 26, 1999
Date of last disbursement: January 7, 1999



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project
I mtplementation
Component                     Oh,jectiv'e                      Indicator                       Rcsult           |           Observations
1. Developing the Regional Health Services System
a) Development of       To train                          Number of staff traincd          Number of staff trained:    Financed by IDA
training programs for    13 physicianis from central level                                  19 phiysicians
regional persoinel      management,
13 DRASS administrators,                                          13 DRASS administrators
13 RH administrators,                                             13 RH administrators
13 chief of service for primary                                   13 chief of PHC service
lhealti care (PHC),
13 chief medical officers from                                    13 RH clief medical
regional hospitals (RH),                                          officers
13 general supervisors from RH,                                   13 RH general supervisors
13 managers from Regional                                         13 managers from Regional
Pharmacies,                                                       Pharmnacies
13 managers from RH Pliannacies,                                  13 managers RH Pharmacies
51 chief medical officers at                                      51 chief medical ofricers at
departmental level (Moughataa),                                   departmental level
51 midwives at health center level,                               53 midwives
SI nurse supervisors at healthi                                   53 nurse supervisors at HC
center (HC) level                                                 level
330 healti post nurses and                                        250 health post nurses and    The remainder was financed by
auxiliary midwives                                                auxiliary midwives          other donors.
14 generalist physicians                                          15 generalist physicians
165 senior healthi tecinicians                                    52 senior healti tecniicians   The remainder was financed by
5 public health candidates abroad                                 5 public health candidates    othier donors.
ithrough schiolarships                                            received training abroad
To set-up the National Institute for  The ftnctioning of the Institute    Specialized trahiing for:  Support introduced aftcr mid-tcnn
Medical Specialties.             for Medical Specialties, measured   19 physicians and 8      review of the projcct in 1995.
by tdie imiiiber of health persoicl  tcchiniciains.
that received specialized and   Pedagogical traininig for:
pedagogical training.            3 senior lcalti techinicians,
10 nurses / mid-wives
b) Dcvelopment of a      To impicilicit a nationial       Maintciance guides developed    Mainiiteanlce guides (for   Guide for civil works not
maintenance systemii for   maintcnaice policy             and distributed.                 automechanic and            developed.
vehicles, equipment and                                                                    biomedical equipment)
infrastructure                                                                             developed and distributed.
To sct up Rcgional maintenauice  Number of regionlal maintenance   13 regional antennas        Low activity
inits                            units equipped and the           cquippcd and continluous
(ties cellules rLgionfales)      organizationi of contitnious     education organized for     Training not always adapted to thie



Component                    Objective                       Indicator                     Result                      Observations
education (sgntinaires de      drivers and mechanics.     staff to be receiving the training.
recyclage et de sensihilisalion)
To conduct mechanic and carpentry  Number of equipped workshops    Central workshop equipped
workshops
To conduct maintenance          Number of worksihops equipped    13 regional maintenance   Complementary training is plamned
workshops on bio-medical                                        units equipped and 147 tool-  with financing from Fonds africain
equipment                       Numbers of staff trained        sets acquired.             de developpe,nent (FAD)
Rehabilitation and extension
Number of staff recruited      of buildings at central level.
5 tecinicians trained.
17 lechinicians recruited.
To conduct an administrative    The organization of continuous    Continuous education     The real impact is difficult to
reorganization of SNGEH (Service  education seminars            seminars for:              estimate
national de gestion des                                         chief medical officers,
dquipentents hospitaliers)                                      hospital administrators has
becn organirzed
c) Strengthiening of   To increase the share of the Gov.'s  7.5% of the Govermnents total  Achieved               In 1999 recurrent health budget as
financial management at  recurrent budget allocated to  recurrent budget is allocated to                           share of total government recusrent
the regional level      MSAS, to 5.5% in 1992 and by    MSAS in 1996.                                              budget is 7%. This ratio will be
additional increments of 0.5% pcr                                                          increased to 7.5% in 2000 and to
year to reach 7.5% in 1996                                                                 8.0% in 2001.
To develop budgeting and financial The inscription of separate budget  Separate budgetary chapter
management mechanisms for the    entries for drug and other     for drugs and non-salary
health regions                  recurrent expenditures for the 13   recurrent expenditures for
regions                        the hicalth regions.
To develop a long tern firnaicing    The availability of a stujdy on the   Cost recovery study
plan for the healthi regions    effectiveness of the cost recovery   undertaken and available.
indicating contributions expected   system
from different financing sources
d) Assistanice for health   To assist the health services in the   The establishment of three  Complcted
services in the regions of  regions of Brakia, Hodh el Gharbi  Regional Health Directorates
Brakna and Hodh el     and Nouakchott                   (DRASS) in Nouakchiolt, Aleg
Gharbi, and in                                          (Brnkna) and Aioun (Hodh el
Nouakchott                                              Gharbi)
To construct, rehabilitate and equip                            Completed                  The equipment intended for healti
healthi facilities in Nouakclhott,                                                         facilities is ordered, but not yet
Brakna and Hodh el Gharbi.                                                                 delivered
To gradually introduce a cost   Number of regions cost recovery   Cost recovery introdticed in  The fiuial extension of tie system
recovery system (healti posts,  is introduced                   all 13 regions (wi/ayas).  was completed in 1993.
hcalti centers and regional
ihospitals).



Component                    Objective                       Indicator                      Result                     Observations
2. Strengthening Support Capacity at the Central Level
a) Strengthiening
technical capacity in
three programs of special
emphasis:
(i) family planning    To accelerate training actvities for  Completion of MCH/FP trainiing    A training plan was  Financed by IDA and UNFPA
_health personnel               of healti staff                 developed completed
To conduct studies and operational  The availabilily of studies and  Compicted and available
research (including a KAP stiudy)   research
To evaluate and refine the prescnt   The availability of a futictional  A functionial infonmation
information system on MCI-/FP    information systim on MCH/FP    systemil achieved
To develop anid implemicenit    The productioni of a tcchlniical  Completcd
programs for FP/IEC             reference manual
The development of pedagogical   Completed
support
Number of hcalth centers where    Family planning is offered
family planning services offered   in 53 health centers
To provide support for training and  To reach a contraceptive   CPR is estimated at less than
awareness programs for 50 private  prevalence rate of 6 - 8 percent    6%
doctors and nurses and 80
pharmacists and phannacy
assistants
(ii) healthi education  To develop a global strategy for    Availability of a global strategy    Available         Contract with FAO, financed by
health education                for health cducationi                                     IDA
To strengtiheni the capacity of the
Division in charge of healtli
education to coordinated all aspects
of its program
To implement key elements of the   Number of people trained and  Training of tlhC chief of
program                         assigned to work on hcalthi     scrfice for Health Education
education
The organization of a
regional seminar (AIDS)
and organization of a
semniar on AIDS for youth
_inspectors
(iii) nutrition         To develop appropriate weaning  Weaning foods developed and     A guide de eloped
foods                           miadc available
To conduct operations rescarch on                               Survey on tie nutrition1al
nutritional surveillance, feeding                               situation in the regions
__________________   and nutrition education                                  (wilayas)



Component                    Objective                       Indicator                     Result                      Observations
To develop training modules for    Development of trail1it1g modules  Training achieved for 4
health personnel on nutritioni                                  nutritionists
rehabilitation and education to be
integrated into the standardized
training programs
To explore ways in whici.                                       Partially achieved
nutritional objectives can be
integrated into income-earning
activities of womei's cooperatives
b) Improvement of       To develop a computerized system   A conmputerized system developed  Achieved (1994)
management systems for  for personnel management        and implemilenticd.
personnel and financial
resources and of tie
health infonnation
system
To develop aund iimtroduce      The establishmilenit of satisfactory   Elaboration of survey
mechanisnms to monitor the flow of  budgetary mecihaniisms      questionnaires.
financial resources from treasury,                              Training of 3 MOHSA staff
cost recovery, regional                                         of computerized accounttig
governments and donors.                                         and procurement.                                               oo
Recruitment of an
accountant for the
Directorate for Drugs.
To establish a computerized system   Establishment of a computerized   Elaboration of a documnent
to regularly update health statistics.  hiealth informuation system  to facilitate the evaluation of
_health infonnation
linplemnentation of tecluhical
assistance in the DPCS
Training in management of
health infomiation
completed for chief of
service and for the
economist in the DPCS
3. Population Policy and Action Plan
Defining a Population   To conduct a nationial survey on  Availability of survey        Survey conducted and       Analysis of migrations anid
Policy and Action Plan    migrations                                                    available                  urbanizationi is conducted, but not a
demograplhic analysis
To officia1ly adopt a National  The adoption of the policy      Policy adopted
Population Policy and Action Plan
4. Promotion of thc Status of Women
a) Strenigthlenlinig the  To define of a national strategy and  Creation of a nationial committee   National Comlittee on the  | The National Committee on the l



Component       I           Objective                       Indicator                     Result                     Obscrvations
plamning, monitoring and  action plan for the promotion of    on tie promotion of women.  Promotion of Women was    Promotion of Women has not met
mobilization capacities    woimen.                     Availability of a national strategy   created.            sincel995.
of the SECF, including                                 and action plan for the promotion   National strategy and action
the development of a                                   of women,                       plan for the promotion of
nationlal WID strategy                                 Annual programmuing of WID      women available.
and action plan                                        activities.                     WID activities are
programmed atnually
To establish a WID documentation  The WID documentation center    The documentation center is  The center for the promotion of
center                          established and ftmctioninig   equipped and functioning  women in Nouakciott is equipped
and the SECF had obtained vehicles
and diverse equipment.
To strengthen the capacity of the    The existence of a uniit installed at A unit of 6 people is
SECF to conduct monitoring and    SECF to conduct monitoring and   installed at SECF for this
evaluation of WID activities    evaluationi of WID activities  purpose and have received
proper trainiig.
Number of correspondents       Correspondetits rcsponsible
responsible for following WID  for following WID aspects
aspects placed in ministries  is placed in all ministries.
To strengthieni the capacity of the                            26 persons at regional level
Regional antelnas (Centres (,le                               lhave received training
/'romotion Feninine) to supervise
and monitor the activities in the
cooperatives
b) Extending successful  To conduct management training    Number of women trained.    1260 people trained (of   Tlhe objective was brought down to
ongoing action programs  125 cooperatives involved in tIhe                             whicih 60 trainers)       96 cooperatives and flnally 81
geared towards         realization of productive micro-                                                          cooperatives were achieved by
increasing women's     projects                        Number of micro pro3ects       81 micro projects achiieved   project closing.
functionial literacy and                               achieved.                                                 An analysis was undertaken to
improving women's                                                                                                assess tie impact of the micro
income earning capacity                                                                                          projects in Brakna
by strengthening
women's cooperatives
To alphabetize the members of the  Number of women alphabetized    1200 women alphabetized
125 women cooperatives         _



20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
NO specific project operation indicators were foreseen in the SAR
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study           appraisal/redefined            Status             Impact of study
1.        Study of the cost recovery mechanism   Completed  Indicators developed during the
study which allowed monitoring
in general and assessment of the
possibility to generalize the
system.
2.        Survey on the Health Information  Completed       The Health Information system
System                                            was evaluated in collaboration
with WHO. The result was the
definition of collection
instruments for compatible data
and definition of new informationi
needs.
3a)       KAP study - first phase           Completed       The study made an impact by
modifying MOHSAs behavior to
include STD/AIDS in their
program. This in turn led to
improvement of the contraceptive
3b)       KAP study - second phase          Completed       prevalence rate
4.        Survey on family planning services    Not undertaken    None
currently available in private sector
5.        Health education survey           Completed       Assisted the strengthening of
health education activities and led
in turn to the development of
educational materials for inter-
personnel communication and
mass-media (TV, radio)
6.        Study on the nutritional situation in    Completed  The study was included in the
three wilayas (Hodh el Gharbi,                    course of the project and is an
Brakna, Gorgol)                                   illustration on how the project
adapted to a new awareness of the
health situation in the country.
The study led to strengthening of
the National Nutrition Program.



21
Purpose as defined at
Study           appraisal/redefined            Status              Impact of study
7.        National Migrations Survey        Completed        The survey made available
indicators in order to prepare the
Declaration of the Population
Policy.
8.        Census to identify women pre-     Completed        Refocusing and better resource
cooperatives                                       utilization in activities to integrate
women in development. Data-
bank was created by the SECF
9.        Survey to identify WID projects   Completed        that was used in the development
of the national strategy and action
plan for the promotion of women.
10.       Sentinel survey on HIV            Completed        The study was included during
project implementation and
illustrates how the project was
adapted to new health problems.
The survey contributed to
improved intervention regarding
STDs/AIDS and better monitoring
of the epidemic.



22
Tableau 8A: Project Costs *
(US$ Millions)
a) Per category
Category                 Appraisal estimates       Actual costs         Difference
INVESTMNT
1. Civil Works                               4.50                  4.12                -0.38
2. Materials                                 3.87                  3.98                 0.11
Equipment                              2.07                  1.66                -0.41
Vehicles                               1.10                  1.06                -0.04
Furniture                              0.70                  1.26                0.56
3. Specialist services                       2.50                  2.07                -0.43
Intemational consultants               2.30                  1.66                -0.64
National consultants                   0.20                  0.41                0.21
4. Training                                  1.44                  3.19                 1.75
Foreign training                       0.54                  1.88                1.34
Local training                         0.90                  1.31                0.41
5. Studies                                    0.2                  0.32                 0.12
6. Drugs                                     1.03                  0.43                 -0.6
7. Contraceptives                            0.00                  0.10                 0.10
8. Refunding of Project Preparation          0.80                  0.42                -0.38
Advance
TOTAL INVESTMENT                             14.34                 14.63               .0.29
OPERATING COSTS
8. Operating Costs                           2.36                  1.83                -0.53
Consumable                             0.36                  0.46                0.10
Operational / maintenance              1.05                  0.77                -0.28
Salaries                               0.82                  0.45                -0.37
Other operating costs                  0.13                  0.15                0.02
TOTAL                          16.70                  16.46               0.24
Data do not include expenditures occurred after project closing date
Source: World Bank and Project Coordination Unit



23
b) Per Component
Component                         Appraisal estimates    Actual costs      Difference
I. Developing the Regional Health Services System                 9.72            8.44             -1.28
Training programs                                             0.40            1.75              1.35
Financial management                                          0.62            0.00             -0.62
Maintenance system                                            1.00            0.91             -0.09
Health services: 3 regions                                    7.70            5.78             -1.92
II. Strengthening Support Capacity at the Central                 0.85            2.97             2.12
Level
Management system                                             0.25            1.65              1.42
Family planning                                               0.00            0.22             0.22
Family planing (private sector)                               0.00            0.00             0.00
Health education                                              0.60            0.95             0.35
Nutrition                                                     0.00            0.06              0.06
Institutional support 1/                                      0.00            0.09             0.09
III. Population Policy                                            0.94            0.76             -0.18
IV. Promoting the Status of Women                                 2.22            1.40             -0.82
Institutional strengthening                                   0.81            0.45             -0.36
Support to CPF 2/                                             0.34            0.40             0.06
Pre-cooperatives                                              0.62            0.44             -0.18
Functional literacy                                           0.45            0.11             -0.34
V. Project coordination                                           2.16            2.46             0.30
VI. Refunding of PPF                                              0.80            0.42             -0.38
TOTAL                                    16.70            16.46             0.24
1 / introduced at mid term review stage in order to support the Institut National des Specialits Medicales (INSM)
2/ Centre de Promotion Feminine (CPF)
Table 8B: Project Financing *
(US$ Millions)
Source              Appraisal Estimates       Actual Financing
IDA                             15.70                         15.79
Government                       0.70                         0.62
Community                        0.30                         0.05
Total                          16.70                        16.46
Data do not include expenditures occurred after project closing date.
Source: World Bank and Project Coordination Unit



24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR) and therefor
there is no baseline against which to compare current estimates. Furthermore, no parameters were given at appraisal
to cost effectiveness.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
..,  ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
3.01       5                        C        Borrower shall execute the project through MSAS, DHR and    Counterpart
SECF with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering    funds
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds,  provided
facilities, services and other resources required for the project.  irregularly
3.02        5                       C       Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services to be
governed by the provision of Schedule 3 of Credit Agreement.
3.03(a)     10                      C        The Borrower shall implement measures of recruitmnent,
redeployment and training of MSAS personnel for the satisfaction
of the needs of the health system for the period 1992-1996.
3.03(b)    2           28/02/1995   C        The Borrower shall by February 28, 1995, submit to IDA for
comments the conclusions of the study on the evaluation of the
cost recovery experience, and discuss the said conclusion with
IDA within two months thereafter.
3.03(c)     13         31/12/1994   C        The Borrower shallby December31, 1994, adopt a national     Population
population policy and an action plan for its implementation,  policy
satisfactory to IDA.                                       adopted in
June 1995
3.03(d)     5                       C        The Borrower shall fill the position of director of the PCU at all    Project
times with a person whose qualifications and experience are  coordinator
satisfactory to IDA.                                       suspended
I temporarily
3.03(eXi)   11, 9                   C        The Borrower shall by April 30 of each year, beginning in 1993,
organize a review meeting to be attended by PCU staff and
representatives of implementing units in order to review the draft
annual work program and budget for project activities to be
undertaken during the next fiscal year.
3.03(eXii)  11, 9                   C        The Borrower shall by April 30 of each year, beginning in 1993,
organize a review meeting to be attended by PCU staff and
representatives of implementing units in order to review the draft
recurrent budget for health for the next fiscal year.
3.03(eXiii)  11, 9                  C        Borrower shall by April 30 of each year, beginning in 1993,
organize a review meeting to be attended by PCU staff and
representatives of implementing units in order to review (i) the
draft annual work program and budget for project activities to be
undertaken during the next fiscal year, (ii) the draft recurrent
budget for health for the next fiscal year, and (iii) a draft
investment budget for the health sector for the coming three years.
The Final versions of the annual work program and budget for the
project and the recurrent and investment budgets for health shall
be satisfactory to IDA.
3.04(a)    2                        C        Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
Section 3.01 of Credit Agreement, Borrower shall increase
percentage share of its budget allocated to MSAS, to 5.5% in 1992
and by additional increments of 0.5% per year to reach 7.5% in



25
__________      1996.
3.04(b)     11                       C        Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
Sec. 3.01 of credit agreement, Borrower shall maintain a separate
budgetary chapter for drug and material budgets for health regions
through the end of the project, and ensure that budgetary
allocations for the 13 regions combined total at least UM 60
mnillion for drugs and UM 90 million for other material costs, at
1991 prices, through the end of 1996.
3.04(c)     1                        C        Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
Sect. 3.01 of the credit agreement, Borrower shall by March31 of
each year, beginning in 1992, transfer to the Drugs Account, 50%
of the annual budgetary allocation for drugs and by July 31 and
September 30 of each year, transfer 25% respectively, of the same
annual allocation, and have the Drugs Account audited semi-
annually.
3.04(d)     3                        C        Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
Sect. 3.01 of credit agreement, Borrower shall ensure that, for
every purchase made out of funds from the Drugs Account, the
procurement procedures agreed upon with IDA for the purchase of
essential drugs, shall be used.
3.05(a)     9                        C        Borrower and IDA shall, not later than April 30, 1995, undertake a  Mid-term
mid-term review of the project during which they shall exchange   review
views on matters relating to progress of the project and the  conducted
performance of the Borrower of its obligations under the credit    June 1995
agreement.
3.05(b)     9                        C        Not later than one month prior to such review, the Borrower shall
furnish to IDA a report on the progress and status of the Project
and in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request.
3.05(c)     10                       C        Following the review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly
and diligently, in order to take any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation
or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed
upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the
Project.
4.01(a)     I                        C        Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
4.01(b)(i)   I                       C        Borrower shall have the records and accounts referred to inpara.
(a) of this section, including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with the appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA.
4.01(b)(ii)   I                      C        Borrower shall furnish to ]:DA, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than 6 months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested.
4.01(b)     I                        C        Borrower shall furnish to IDA such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time
to time reasonably request.  .
4.01 (cXi)   I                       C        For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures.
4.01(cXii)   I                                For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall retain, until at least 1 year after



26
IDA has received the audit for fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
I__________                   evidencing such expenditures.
4.01 (cXiii)   I                                  C           For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from  the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, Borrower shall enable IDA's representatives to
examine such records.
4.01(cXiv)    I                                   C           For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from  the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, Borrower shall ensure that such records and accounts
shall be audited on a semi-annual basis by said auditors, who shall
prepare audit reports accordingly and furnish them to IDA, not
later than three months after end of such semi-annual audit period,
along with a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such period, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
.___________________   __________                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Covenant Type:
1   =   Accounts/audits                                                 8.  = Indigenous people
2.  =   Financial performancelrevenue generation from beneficiaries     9.  = Monitoring, review and reporting
3 .  =   Flow and titilization of project funds                        10.      Project implementation
4.  =   Counterpart funding                                            11.  =  Sectorml or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5.  =   Management aspects of the project or executing agenrcy         12.      Srctoral or croms-sectoral policy7!regulatory/institutional action
6.      Environmental covenants                                        13.  =  Other
7.  =   Involuntary resettlement
Present status:
C    =  covenant complied with
CD   =  complied with after delay
CP   =  complied with partially
NC   =  not complied with



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
||Boroercmplied with all operational manual statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned                        Actual
Weeks       US$ ('000)      Weeks         US$ ('000)
Through appraisal                n.a.          n.a.          68.5            128.1
Appraisal                        n.a.          n.a.          29.4            51.7
Negotiation to Board approval    n.a.          n.a.           18.4           44.5
Supervision                      n a.          n.a.          142.6          322.0
Completion                       n.a.          n.a.           7.9            13.0
TOTAL                           n.a.          n.a.          266.8         559.3
n.a.: not available
Source: Costs Accounting System (June 5, 1998).



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Types of
Stage of         Month/   Number of   Days in   Specialized staff               Performance Rating           Problems
Project                                                                                   ________
Cycle             Year      persons       field    skills represented    Implementation   Development
Status         Objective
Identification I  2/87         2           26      EH, PH                      n.a.             n.a.
Identification II    2/88      2           28      EH, PH                      n. a.            n. a.
Preparation I     5/88         2           14      PH, IEC                     n.a.             n.a.
Preparation II    2/89          1           7      PH                          n.a.             n.a.
Pre-Appraisal     01/90        5           21      PH, PF, IEC, MCH,           n.a.             n.a.
Appraisal         04/91        6           23      PH, PF, IEC, MCH,           n.a.             n.a.
A, WID, EH
Supervision 1     10/91        1           7       A                           n.a.             n.a.           None
Supervision 2     4/92         1            7      PH                          n.a.             n.a.           None
Supervision 3     6/92         2           30      PH, PR                       2                2             None
Supervision 4     10/92        1            5      EH                          n.a.             n.a.           None
Supervision 5     1/93         1            5      PH                           2                2             None
Supervision 6     2/93         1           17      PH                           2                2             None
Supervision 7     5/93         5           40      PH, IS, E, IEC, WID.         2                2             None
Supervision 8     2/94         6           24      2 PH, E, NS, 2 Aids          2                2             None
S.
Mid-term          7/95         5           35      2 PH, 2 E, IS                2                1             None
Review
Supervision 9     6/96         5          n.d.     PH, 2 E, IS, MGT             3                2         Disbursement
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             L ag
Supervision 10    11/96        2           20      PH, IS                       2                2             None
Supervision 11    2/97         1           7       PH                          n.a.             n.a.           None
Supervision 12    06/97        2           3       PH, IS                      n.a.             n.a.           None
Supervision 13    10/97        3           24      2PH,IS,E,PO                  2                2             None
Supervision 14    4/98         4           17      PH, IS,    P1                                 2             None
Completion        6/98         2           28      A, EH                       n.a.             n.a.           None
[_TOTAL                                     464                                                                 None
Specialized staff skills:
A: Architect; Aids S: Aids Specialist; E: Economist; EH: Health Economist; IEC: IEC Specialist; IS: Implementation Specialist;
MCH: Mother Child Specialist; MGT: Management Specialist; NS: Nutrition Specialist; OA: Operation Analyst; PF: Family
Planing Specialist; PH: Public Health Specialist; PO: Program Officer; PR: Procurement Specialist; WID: Women in
Development Specialist;
Performance rating:
1: Highly Satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.r.: not rated; n.a. : Evaluation not available



MINISTEREDE LA SANTE ETDESAFFAIRES SOCIALES
Unite de Coordination dlt Projet Sanid Populattion
RAPPOR T D'EVALUATION FINALE DU PROJET SAN'TE POPULA TION
I. Rappel du contexte de mise en place du Projet
Le projet Sante Population a ete decide en commun accord entre le Gouvernement
mauritanien et FIDA a la suite de la revue du secteur de la sante menee en collaboration avec une
mission de 1'IDA en 1989.
La conclusion principale de cette revue est qu'en depit de la priorite reconnue au secteur de
la  sante depuis le quatrieme plan de developpement 1981-1985. la situation sanitaire de la
Mauritanie reste preoccupante. En 1987, 1'esperance de vie a la naissance dans le pays a ete estim6e
a 46 ans. le taux brut de mortalite a 19 pour mille nettement sR dessus de la moyenne pour les pays
a faible revenu qui est de 10 pour mille. Le taux de mortalite infantile est de 129 pour mille compare
A 72 pour mille pour ]es pays a faible revenu.
Pour pallier a cette situation le gouvernement a adopte une strategie axee sur:
1. Decentralisation des services de sante
2. La mobilisation des ressources en faveur des svsteines de sante r6gionaux
-. Le renforcement des capacites de soutien et de planification au niveau central
4. L'elaboration d'un programme de rnedicaments essentiels
Ces quatre actions visent la stabilisation financiere et l'amelioration de la qualite et de
T
l'efficacit. des services. Leurs reussites contribuent a perenniser les actions visees par le plan
directeur elabore par le gouvernement avec les objectifs d'amelioration de couverture sanitaire a
travers
* Les actions de rehabilitation d'equipement
* L'execution de strategies preventives, curatives et promotionmelles visant 'aamelioration
des conditicns socio-sanitaires des population.
Le gouvernernent a soumis sa strategie a ses partenaires du domaine qui se sont engages a
son financement. C'est dans ce cadre qu'ai ne le Procet Sante Population essentiellement finance par
l'IDA pour un montant de 15.7 Million USD avec des contributions de la Cooperation Allemande
pour.3.5 Millions de DT Mark.... de la Cooperation Francaise (p.m) de I'UNICEF et du FNUAP.
L'intervention de l'IDA et de la Cooperation bilaterale Allemande ont et6 ciblees vers
l'amnlioration de la couverture sanitaire dans trois rdgions du pays, le Hodh El Gharbi. le Brakna et
Nouakchott ou les actions de construction de rchabilitation et d'equipement d'infrastructures ont ete
retenues. La formation du personnel. le soutien du svst&me de recouvrement des coats. I'appui a la



maintenance et aux activites de sante maternelle. espacement des naissances, d'education pour la
sante et le renforcement des capacites de gestion au niveau central et regional.
Les mesures d'accompagnement du projet etaient liees:
 Au recrutement et redeploiement du personnel
* A I'approvisionnement en medicaments essentiels
. A la mobilisation de ressources financieres pour le secteur notarmnent a travers
l'Paurmentation du budget consacr6 par le gouvernement dans le cadre du budget
fonctionnement qui devait passe de 3,2%  en 1991 A 7.5% en 1996. La participation
commuinautaire dans le cadre du r ecouvrement des couts.
II. STRUCTUIRE DU PROJET
2.1. Le Projet Sante Population peut etre considere conime le projet de developpement le plus
important depuis l independance du pays dans le secteur de la sante. Apres une phase de preparation
de plus de trois annees au cours de laquelle de nombreuses activites ont ete entreprises. la nrhase
d'execution a cdebut en juin 1992 pour une duree previsionnelle estimee A environ cm4 annees.
L'importance de cet investissement est conforme au Plan de Consolidation et Relancc (P?CKj 4LU
accorde une place particuliere au developpement des activites dans le secteur de Ia sante. de la
population et integration des femmes dans le developpement. Ce projet est essentiellement un projet
d' investissemient.
2.2. Les Principaux obiectifs du Projet Sant&'Population sont les suivants:
* Developper les services de sante regionaux et departementaux dans le cadre d'une
d6centralisation des activites
* Renforcer les capacites de planification et de gestion au niveau central pour apporter un
appui efficace au developpement sanitaire regional
* Ameliorer la disponibiiite et lFaccessibilite des medicaments essentiels pour la majorite de
la population
* Mettre en place des svstemes de contribution financiere des populations aux couts des
serv ices de sante afin que ceux-ci puissent poursuivre leurs activites en l'absence d'aide
exterieure
* Elaborer et mettre en place une politique nationale de population
* Promouvoir le statut de la femme
En sommiie le but du projet est de
Ameiliorer la qualite et l accessibilit& aux services de sante et planification familiale
* Elabore- une politique et progriamme d'action en matire de population
Impulser la participation des femmes dans le d4veloppement social et economique



III. ETAT DE RE,EALISATION DES OBJECTIFS
3.1. Realisations
3.1.1.Secteur Sante
3. 1.1. ]. Renforcement des services r6gionaux
- Formation du personnel
rezional
* 19 DRASS, 51 medecins chefs des centres de sante
53 sages-femmes et 53, infirmiers majors
250 infirmiers chefs de postes de sante
'13 medecins chefs d'hopitaux.
* 26 gestionnaires d'h6pitaux et DRASS,
* 13 chefs services de SSP
* 13 surveillant gdn6raux en specialites differentes, laborantins
= Formation de 27 specialites differentes dont 18 medecins et 9 techliciens
* fomiation des professeurs de l'ENSP
* Mise en place d'un Institut de specialites medicales
La finalite de ces programmes de formation est de preparer les beneficiaires par des
programnmes de sante publique de gestion a assurer leurs nouvelles taches dans l'execution
des options strategiques de la politique de sante adoptee par le gouvernement. Par ailleurs. la
formation clinique contribue a l'amrlioration de la qualite des services offerts.
Genie civil. equipement et   I
maintenance
Pour ameliorer la couvertur, sanitaire des actions de rehabilitation et d'equipements
ont et& ciblees sur trois Wilayas (Nouakchot. Brakna et Hodh El Gharbi) et une sirM-t6ie de
maintenance- a et concue au niveau national..
I - Le programme eenie civil a ete realise dans sa globalit6
- Acquisition de 8 vehicules pour le transport des malades des 3 Wilavas
ciblees.
2 - Mise en place d'un service national de maintenance par la formation de 5
techliciens  superieurs  biomedicaux.  I'acquisition   des  equipements
specifiques pour la maintenance du materieL medical et des vehicules,
Formation administrative du chef de service et 147.
la construction des locaux-du service et acquisition des v6hicules (3) et 147
trousses pour la region.
Ces activites de maintenance rentre dans le cadre d'un programme global finahic aussi par la
Banque Africaine devant conduire a lI'aboration d'une strat62ie nationale de maintenfance. Le



financement de cette institution n'a pas suivi a temps. Le financement IDA a servi de financer les
activites prioritaires. L'execution en cours du financement FAD aboutira a l'atteinte des objectifs.
Le volet G6nie civil a te cl6ture dans son ensemble
Genie civil
- Financement IDA
a) - Niveau central
- Construction des locaux du service education pour I sante
- - Construction des locaux du service de I Maintenance
- - Refection du magasin central de I direction de I pharmacie et du Medicament avec son
equipement de 2 chambres froides pour les vaccins
- - Construction des locaux de I Direction des ressources humaines
- - Refection des locaux de l'Ecole Nationale de Sante Publique au profit de l'Institut national des
specialites medicales
b) -Niveau rei-ional
- Constructionl de I DRASS de Nouakchott
- - Rehabilitation de I polyclinique de Nouakchott
- - Rehabilitation et extension des centres de sante de Sebkha et Tevarett type A et de Ryad,
Sebkha et Tevarett les 3 a Nouakchott
- - Construction du centre de sante typpe B de Tensoueilim
- - Rehabiliration de 1 PMI de Tensoueilim
-  -    (bil;tq,ion du centre de sante tvpe B du Ksar
- Construction ce I  dP -     -
- Construction du CSB d'Alec
-  - Rchabilitation et extension de l'h6pital d'Aleg
- R6habilitaiion du CSA de Bogh6
- Rehabilitation de I PM/1I de Bogh6
- - Rehabilitation du CSB de M'Basne
- Rehabilitation de 1 PMI de M'Bagne
- - rehabilitation des postes de sante de Bagodine, Niabina et Aere M'Bar6
Financement KFW (Wilaya du Hodh El Gharbi)
-  Construction de la DRAS S d'Aioun
-  Construction dun CSR a Aioun
- Rehabilitation PMI d'Aioun
- Rehabilitation des PMI de Tintane. Tamchekett et Kob6ni
- Rehabilitation!extension du CSB de Tamchekett
- Construction de 23 postes de sante dans la wilaya
Financement CFD (Toutes les 'wilavas)
- Construction de 69 postes de sante
- - Construction de 16 salles d'hospitalisation
-  - Rehabilitation d'une PMI
4



- - Construction de 8 DRASS: Zoueiratt, Nouadhibou. Tidjikja, Kiffa, Selibaby, Ka6di. Nenma et
Rosso
N.B:
-  Les etudes pour le financement K.FW et CFP ont ete faits sur les fonds de l'IDA
- Le controle des travaux KFW a ete aussi realise sur les fonds de l-IDA.
Les equipements medicaux des infrastructures finances'sur les fonds de l'IDA ont connu certes des
retards lies au probleme d'adjudication malgre le lancement de l'Appel d'offres en decembre 1995
(01 n 03/95/2E) () et depasse et des lettres de credits ont ete etablies pour le compte des
attributaires fin qu'ils puissent commencer les livraisons.
3. .1.2. Mobilisation des ressources pour le
secteur
Budget etat
Le bud-et du secteur de la sante a augmente siznificativement de 3.2% en 1991 i' est passe A
7,5% du budg,et de fonctiomnement globale en 1996.
Les dotations regionales ont et6 separees et dkentralis6es. les dotations pour medicaments
essentiels ont passe de 60 millions A 1 13 millions en 1997 donc maintenus en termes relis.
3 Revues de depenses ont ete menees.
o Recouvrement des couts
La participation financiere des population2 a contribue grandement a la perennite des
approvisionnrements en medicaments. aux fonctionnement des structures et aiux fitancement
d'activites pr'mnotionnelles.
Le cout moven du traitemnent est en 1997 A 178 UM et l'accessibilite financiere a 90%.
L'accessibilite gdographique aux soins etait en 1996 a 75% dans un rayon de 10 kIm.
* Financement exterieur
* Les f'onds IDA ont ete mobilises en Juillet 1992
* Les fonds KFW et de la BAD en 1994
 Les fonds qui etaient attendus de I'UNICEF et du FNUAP (P.m) (sante reproductive et
nutrition)
5



3.1.1.3. Programme de mrdicament
essentiel
- Mise en place du svstenie de recouvrement des couts dans les 53 centres de
sante. dans 197 postes de sante et 459 unites de sante de base
- Elaboration d'un manuel de procedure pour le systeme et la mise en place
d'un systeme perrin pour l^approvisionnement en medicaments (mise en
concurrence des centrales d'achat)
- avec le renforcement de la direction de la pharmacie et du medicament en le
dotanit d'un magasin de stockage et de 2 chambres froides
- Audit du compte d'affectation speciale des medicaments
Ceci sur financement IDA. Le gros du financement etait prevu sur le fonds africain de
developpememt au cours de 1'execution ef nezmettre de:
* rehabiliter les locaux
 creer un laboratoire de contr6le de qualite
* la formation du personnel et le renforcement de l'inspection
' .1.1.4. .4ppui a7UXpr-ograntmeS speciciax (f PS. PF, SIDA. Nutrition)
- Construction et equipernent des locaux pour le service education pour la
sante
- Elaboration d' un plan directeur grace au recrutement d tune assistance
technique FAO
- Financement d'emissions Radio-television et radio rural
- Formation des responsables chacun dans sa specialite
- Oreanisation des seminaires de lutte contre le SIDA au profit des
inspecteurs de la jeunesse
- Acquisition des reactifs pour ies banques de sang
- Realisation d'line enquete sur la situation nutritionnelle, services des PF
offerts dans 53 centres de sante
- Financement des activites du service national d'information
- Appui institutionnel du programme nationale de lutte contre le SIDA, du
service education pour la sante. du programme de planning familial et du
- service nutrition
- Acquisition dequipements informatique et bureautique et de 5 vehicules
- Preparation d'une alimentation deervaae
- Realisation d'une enquete sur I cituatio1n nutritionnelle dans 3 wilayas
- Alimentation de Servaue elaboree et mis en place
3.1.1.5. Ren?forcemeyt central
- Participation au financement pour Il'eaboration du plan directeur. du plan
triennal et rapport d'action annuel
- Formation du personnel du niveau central en gestion et planification
- Assistance technique informat;que pour l'amelioration de la gestion du
personnel
- Appui institLtionnel aux directions centrales (DPCS, DAAF. DPS. DPM)
- Acquisition d'equipements informatique et bureautique et de vehicules
6



L'objectif de cette composante est de faire du niveau central une unite de planification et
d?appui pour les Direction regionales en se detachant des aspects d'execution au profit des entites
politico-administratives regionales (DRASS).
L'effort important d&appui institutionnel, de formation et d'equipement apporte par le projet
n 'a pas eu I 'impact souhaite. Cette situation n'est pas imputable a l'Unite de Coordination du Projet
Sante Population qui est une direction du Ministere et n a joue institutionnellement qu'un r6le de
coordination conformement au manuel de procedures du projet et du decret fixant ses prerogatives.
L'ensemble des interventions reunies a permis de faire passer I'accessibilite au soins de base
de 30% en 1991 a 78% en 1997 dans un moven de l0km.
3.1.2. Secieur de la Population
- Realisation d'une enquete migratioii.
- Elaboration d'une politioue nationale de population et de son plan d'action
declaration finale adoptee en 1995
- Acquisition d equipements informatique et bureautique et de 6 vehicules
- Constru ction des locaux de la direction des ressources humaines
- Appui dont assistance technique nationale permanente
3.1.3. Promotion Feminine
3.1.3.]. Appui instilutionmi
- Elaboration de la strat6gie nationale de promotion feminine
- Formation des responsables des antennes r6gionales et des cadres du niveau central
- Acquisition des eauipements et vehicules
- Elaboration d'un rapport sur la situation des femmes
- Mise en place d'un centre de formation et de documentation
- Mise en place d'equipements informatique et bureautique pour le centre d'auto-
Formation  NKTT au profit des filles de perdition de l'enseignement
- Acquisition de 4 vehicules
.1.3. 2. -A Zphab6tisation foncl ion7ne7le
- contrat d'assistance technique sign6 avec le Secretariat d'Etat Charge de
I'Alphabetisation pour l implantation du programme d'alphab6tisation
- Implantation de ce programme et formation des femmes en alphabetisation
fonctionnelle
- Production des outils didactiques et autres rmanuels de procedure au profit
des centres de formation
3.1.3.3 -. Nlicro-projets
- Financement de 96 minro-nroiets au profit des cooperatives f6minines
- Formations des tornmateurs
- Formateurs des femmes responsables de cooperatives
- Supervision des cooperatives feminines mises en place



IV - Achevements des objectifs:
Les en-agements du gouvernement ont ete satisfaits et 1'ensemble des objectifs du projet a
ete atteint c'est ainsi que lors de 1'evaluation a mi-parcours en juin 95, les principaux indicateurs ont
ete atteints, il ne restait que ies activitds en cours d'execution (constructions, equipements et le reste
des micro-projets).
Des fonds importants economises ont ete reprogramm6s enjuin 96 pour financer des
activites nouvelles rentrant dans les priorites soutenues par le projet (lutte contre le SIDA,
Nutrition,. Formation qualifiante, preparation du PASS..).
Du point de vue Gestion: les audits effectues annuellement, I'audit de la cour des comptes
en 1994 et 1996 et la revue ECDS entreprise r6cemment n'ont pas souleve de probl&mes de gestion.
4.1.2. Decaissement du cote financier, le decaissement actuel est de l'ordre de 92%. II ne restait en
fait que les fonds destines aux marches en cours (ecquipements medicaux) et les lettres de credits ont
ete etablies.
4.1.3. Passation des marchds
L'ensemble des acquisitions des travaux a dte fait conformernent aux procddures de passations de
march6s de la Baanque Mondiale (AOI pour la plupart)
Les dossiers tvpes d'appels d'ffes ont ete utilises pour l'ensernble des AOI du projet. Malgre les
difficult6s liees aux contractions,22s procedures de passation des marches de I Banque avec les
procedures nationales. le charge de passation des marchds en accord avec la Commission centrale
des marches a touj ours utilise les dossiers types de la Banque Mondiale et respectee les procedures
d'ouvertures et d'evaluation des offres et idem pour 1'emploi des consultants.
Iv. LECONTS TIREES
4.1. Contraintes
L'ex6urtion du projet n'a pas 61e entachee de difficultes liees au projet lui-meme, malgre la
complexite du montage du projet (3 departements ministdriels, plusieurs intervenants). Mise a part
le retard de certains financement et la non mobilisation d'autres (Nutrition). Les mesures prises a
leur temps ont jugules cette situation. . Toutefois le projet etant le moteur de la politique sectorielle.
la pdrennite de ses interventions est liee a la reussite des strategies retenues dans le document cadre
de politique g6ndrale.
Les mesures retenues dans ce document dtaient essentiellement:
* La m ise en place d'un sv'steme d'approvisioonnement en medicament essentiel
* La disponibilite du personnel qualifie et leur affectation dans les structures sanitaires
A fin de pallier aux effets de ces mesures le gouvernement a deploye des efforts importants.
c'est ainsi que.
Dans le domaine de P'apnrovisionnement:
s



La politiqLue de recouvrement des coutts finances dans le cadre du projet (fonds de roulement
en medicaments. et mise en place) repose sur tn svsteme d'approvisionnement et distribution
adequat:
Le gouvernement a obtenu au pres de l'IDA une derogation pour acquerir les medicaments
essentiels a travers IlUNIPAC qui est le regroupeur de l'UNICEF. Cette formule a ete d'une grande
utilite les 3 premnieres annres.
Toutefois. elle n'a pas permis & la Direction de la Pharmacie et du Medicament de
developper des capacites de planification et de gestion. Le Gouvernement et l'IDA ont opte pour
une formule intermediaire d'approvisionnement basee sur la selection de centrale d'achats. Cette
procedure qui a pris du temps a abouti. Elle a le privilege d'aider la Direction de la Pharnacie et du
Medicament a developper des competences en matiere de planification et de  gestion des
commandes dont le svstsme a besoin et a des prix competitifs.
I1 s'agit la d'une formule qui ne peut qu'etre transitoire car la Direction de la Pharmacie et
du Medicament devra satisfaire des besoins de plus en plus important au regard de l'auigmentation
de l'eventail des plateaux techniques des structures sanitaires et a un besoin de plus en plus
important de rglIementation et de contr6le .
La mise en place d'un s'steme d'approvisionnement perein suppose la revision du r6le de la
Direction de la Phnma=ie et du Medicament dans sa structure actuelle. Cette direction s'occupe de
2 missionmcontradictoires approvisionnement. contr6le de la reglementation).
L'experience de la PHARMARIM est encore presente dans nos esprits et loin de nous de
proposer sa reedition . Cependant nous proposons d'etudier les formules suivies ailleurs dans
d'autres pays. nous pensons aux:
* centrales d'achat
* groupements d'interet economique (ou autre fornule similaire et institutionnellement
acceptable)
La derniere formule pourrait par exemple aboutir a une association entre la CHN, les
conseils de developpement socio-sanitaires ( le CDSS gere les affaires de la sante au niveau des
Wilayas et peut ainsi agir au nom des structures primaires et des h6pitaux regionaux) et une unite
qui dependra de la Direction de la Pharmnacie et du Medicament. Cette approche facilitera les
procedures d'approvisionnernent et limitera les contraintes actuellement liees au dossier d'appel
d'offres. Contraintes d'ailleurs qui se sont repercutees sur l'acquisition des equipements medicaux
pour lesquels nous proposons la formule a marche a montant variable qui se presente ainsi qui suit:
VII - Impact dui pTojet
Pam-i les impacts de 1'execution du PSP peuvent etre cites les impacts suivants:
-  Creation ati sein des populations d'un esprit communautaire participatif grice a I
responsabilisation des elus locaux a travers ce svstenme de recouvrement des coits gjr6
directement par eux-memes.
9



-  Disponibilisation des fonds generent du systeme pour 1 motivation du personnel travaillant dans
le systeme et la prise en charge d'une partie des frais de fonctionnement y compris la
maintenance des formations sanitaires mises a leurs dispositions dans le cadre du PSP et grace
aux conventions de Maitrise d'Ouvrage signe avec les collectivites pour l'execution par des
tAcherons locaux des travaux de construction des postes de sante, une capacite locale est
desornais presentee.
Disponibilisation a des couts tres abordables aux populations les pauvres des oins,
-  Creation d un esprit de partenariat
-  Stimulation du secteur en matiere de mobilisation des fonds et requetes de fmancement
-  Creation d une capacite locale (du suivi du secteur) d'execution de programmes
-  Confiances de l'ensemble des bailleurs de fonds et leurs engagements desormais a investir dans
les trois secteurs sante, promotion feminine et ressources humaines c'est ainsi que la Banque
mondiale n'a pas tarde a participer significativement au financement du PASS en cours de mise
en vigueur avec son accord de financer de ce cadre une enquete demographique ainsi que le
projet nutrition en cours de preparation au profit du secteur des femmes.
I0



IBRD 23274
ROADS
MAURITANIA                                                                                   ROUTES
NATIONAL CA4PITAL
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT                                                                                            CAPITALE D'ETAT
REGION CAPITALS
PROJET SANTE POPULATJON~                                                                                      CHEF-LIEU DE R~GO0N
J    DEPARTMENT CAPTALS
CHEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT
REGIONS OF PROJECT CONNCENTTRATION/REGIONS oE CONCENSTRATION Di PROJET
REG ON BOUNDARIES
' . ; . . , ,, , ' / :z_A.', esE~~~~~~~~~~~LMGITOES RBEGIOCNNALRES
STRENGTHENING OF REGIONAL HEATH SERVICES C0MONEES EGNA
rCOMPOSANTE RENPORCEMENT DES SERVCES DE SANTA REGioNAUX                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONTIERES NATIONALES
REGIONS ODF CONCIENTRXISNRiGIONS DE CONCENTRQON                                   /                                 _   INDICATES THE TERRITORY OF THE
REGIONS OP CONCENTRATEOESIR&SIONS GE CONCENTRATION                                  - -. ~~~~~~FORMER SPANISH SAHARA
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT COMFONENT/COMRPOSANTE FElAMES ESTDEVELOPEMENT                                                        (WETMOROCCO  EERN SAHARA)
IDA                                                                                                          INDIQUE LE TERRITOIRE DE CfANCIEN
- - - - -i - - - -| - - --             SAHARA ESPAGNOL
(SAHARA OCCIDENTAL)
IJUN1CEF.:                                                     
EM Bi>Z/GERiMANY                                                                                               G /SD \   0 50  7 00  150 200  250
KILOMETERS
HEALTH CENTERS/CENTRES DE SANTE
A  TYPE A 
*  TYFEA         /                                        -         @ A;~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~n Ben Tili   LEI
*    TYPE B
Bir Mogrein
@    REGIONAL HOSPITALS/H6RTAUX REG1ONA
Atfanttic
U :  5  { @  Zouerct                                 s
,Ocean                                                                                                                               M A L I
NOUADHIBOU/
X TAR                  OudV  
oUaDX4X  ,,Jr .!Rt .<-   > 9:ngu~~~~~~~etti ~-             -     
DAK- X   -AKJOUJT          -  $  @)    (        u*  -                A  -.                  /
f            X               /J /~AKiQ=-IT N                                                                    .      -/
1 <  -       -       t        s          Ql3<i>~~~~~~~TIDJIKJA                     .i  L',,..           I
NOUAKCHOTT               uud gleric                                                      Tichit
X/  t$j4)                                                          This nOF hoc Mornpepored by it
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h Wol Sok' ENEGALAB                          pjeojtoffd eoco |-l
dedy  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~odo  oliinl   r h   N
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mtro \      MALscpr of The World Bank oop
MM. LI/ endorse nentM
Amouo bocoins
SEN EG A L                                                       10.r-l ~~~~~~~~~~~se of TheW.,IdB-SETEMERk 99



