Page  1
                                               Le 4 September 1992
H.E. Mohamedou Ould Michel
Minister of Plan
B.P. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
      Re:  Health and Population Project (Credit No. 2311-MAU)
           Amendment to Section 3.03 (d) and to Supplemental Letter
           No. 2
Excellency,
      We refer to the above-mentioned Credit Agreement between the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Borrower) and the International
Development Association (the Association) dated March 2, 1992 and a
letter No. 0395/M.S.A.S. dated July 14, 1992, signed by H.E. the
Minister of Health and Social Affairs, requesting the Association's
assistance for the accelerated execution of the Project.
      We are pleased to confirm the Association's willingness to
provide this assistance and, therefore, agree to amend the
Development Credit Agreement as follows:
      1. Section 3.04 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended to read:
      "(d) ensure that, for every purchase made out of funds from
      the Drugs Account, the procurement procedures agreed upon with
      the Association on the purchase of essential drugs, shall be
      used, with the exception of purchases made prior to June 30,
      1993, but after the date of the Agreement, which shall be
      procured from UNIPAC using the established procurement
      procedures of UNICEF, which are acceptable to the
      Association;"
      2.  A new Section 3.04 (e) is added to read:
      "(e) the Borrower shall not be bound by the representation
      undertaken in Supplemental Letter No.2 for procurement of
      essential drugs prior to June 30, 1993 if and to the extent t
      that such procurement shall be administered under the
      authority and following the established procurement procedures
      of UNICEF."
      Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendment by
signing and dating the form on the enclosed copy of this letter and
returning it to us, while keeping the original.
      This amendment will become effective as of the date of
confirmation of your agreement hereafter.
                         Sincerely yours,
                         Birger Fredriksen
                          Acting Director
                        Sahelian Department
                           Africa Region
REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Page  2
Authorized Representative
September 9, 1992
