Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23355
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22880)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.2 MILLION (US$32.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
BURUNDI
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR PROJECT
December 27, 2001
Water and Urban 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Burundi Franc
FBu 1 = US$ 0.001226
US$ 1 = FBu 815.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGCD          Belgian Aid Agency/Administration generale de la cooperation et du developpement
ASBL          Non-profit Organization/Associations sans but lucraif
CERDA         Center for Studies and Research-Development on Agro-economics/Centre universitaire
d'etudes et de recherche-developpement en agro-economie
DCA           Development Credit Agreement/Accord de credit de developpement
DGHER         General Directorate of Rural Water and Energy/Direction generale de V'hydraulique et des
.nergies rurales
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
EU            European Union/Union Europeenne
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
KMW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDCA          Ministry of Communal Development and HandicraftlMinistere du developpement
communal et de l'artisanat
MoP           Memorandum of the President
MDR           Ministry of Rural Development/Ministere du developpement rural
NGO           Nongovernmental Organization/Organisation non gouvemementale
NPV           Net Present Value
O&M           Operation and Maintenance/Exploitation
PAEMR         Rural Water Supply Project/Projet d'alimentation en eau en milieu rural
PSAE          Water Supply Sector Project/Projet sectoriel d'alimentation en eau
PSP           Private sector participation/Participation du secteur prive
RCE           Communal Water Board/Regie communale de l'eau
REGIDESO    National Water and Electricity Authority/Regie de production et de distribution d'eau et
d'electricite
RWS           Rural Water Supply/Alimentation en eau en milieu rural
SDR           Special Drawing Right
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report/Rapport d'evaluation
TA            Technical Assistance/Assistance technique
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader:    Richard Verspyck



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI WATER SUPPLY SECTOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                                   10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  12
9. Partner Comments                                                                 13
10. Additional Information                                                          13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               21
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                    22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000217                                        Project Name: WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Team Leader: Richard Verspyck                              TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type. Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 2 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Nanae.: WATER SUPPLY SECTOR                          L/C/TF Number. IDA-22880
Country/Departnient: BURUNDI                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/15/1989                               Effective: 02/03/1992         02/03/1992
Appraisal:  09/25/1990                                MTR:  12/31/1994            02/12/1995
Approval:  07/16/1991                               Closing: 06/30/1998          06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI/DGHER
Other Partners. KfW, AGCD, NGOs
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                            Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Emmanuel Mbi                                Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Letitia A. Obeng                            Marc Blanc
Team Leader at ICR:   Richard Verspyck                          Jean-Francois Dreau
ICR Primary Author:   Christophe Prevost
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory. S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely. HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Instituitional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in Section III of the Staff Appraisal report (SAR, report no. 91 85-BU), the objectives of the
Water Supply Sector Project (PSAE as it is known in Burundi from its French acronym) were (a) to
improve the living conditions of the [rural] population by increasing the quantity and quality of potable
water; (b) to implement the policy of payment for water in urban and rural areas; (c) to enhance
responsibility of local governments for maintaining [rural] water supply facilities; (d) to strengthen the
institutions involved in water supply; and (e) to help the government develop and implement appropriate
institutional arrangements in the water supply sector. It is interesting to note that the Project and Credit
Summary included in the SAR gives a different definition of the objectives and that the Memorandum of
the President (MoP) uses another wording. As the language of Schedule 2 to the Development credit
Agreement (DCA) is quite similar to the one of Section III of the SAR, one may assume that the definition
of Section III sets the objectives as shared by the Borrower and the Bank.
Even though the objectives were not perfectly clear, they were comprehensive. They recognized the need
for clarifying the delineation of institutional responsibilities among the national power and water utility,
Regideso, the General Directorate of Rural Water and Energy (DGHER) and the communes. The
emphasis put on the sustainability of basic rural services and cost recovery was consistent with the
approach defined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of "designing social and economic
infrastructure operations that will lay the groundwork for improving long-term development prospects
while introducing more financially sustainable funding mechanisms for providing social services and
maintaining public assets."
The objectives were not overly ambitious or unrealistic in view of the achievements of the previous Second
Water Supply Project (PAEMR, Cr. 1625-BU)--rated highly satisfactory by OED--which the PSAE aimed
to replicate at a greater scale. The SAR rightly identifies the risks associated with the implementation of
the policy of payment for water in rural areas. The Government's reluctance to enforce this policy had
already led the Bank to suspend disbursements of the previous credit, but the issue was rapidly settled. The
first year of operation of the local water boards (regies communales de l'eau, RCEs) showed some
promising results in collecting user fees. The objectives of the project were nevertheless risky in respect to
the country circumstances. The successful establishment and operation of the RCEs largely depended upon
the continuation of the reconciliation process initiated after the 1988 ethnic violence. The CAS
acknowledged the risk of "renewed political difficulties" and provided an altemative scenario, whereas the
Bank "would remain flexible and allow the govemment time to build a consensus on politically sensitive
reforms, but would limit the lending program to investment projects only." However, the PSAE lacked a
similar exit strategy.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Restructuring the project after the 1993-1995 crisis and ethnic violence led to the cancellation of 75 percent
of the credit amount and a substantial revision of project components (see below). It was estimated at the
time that "if fully implemented, remaining project activities would contribute to initial objectives." The
latter were not modified, but the Borrower and the Bank agreed to modify their priorities. The
establishment of cost recovery had been the primary objective at project inception. The objective of
increasing water quality and quantity took precedence after project restructuring.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three components:
-2 -



* Component A (US$43.85 million or 82 percent of total project costs, excluding PPF refinancing):
Construction of new rural water supply (RWS) systems in nine provinces (out of a total of 15). This
component was cofinanced by Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany (US$6.2 million for
13 systems in the provinces of Muyinga and Ngozi), AGCD, the Belgian Aid Agency (US$ 11.25
million for 12 systems in the provinces of Bubanza, Cibitoke, and Makamba) and IDA (US$24.40
million for 65 systems in the provinces of Gitega, Karuzi, Kayanza and Muramvya). The Project Unit,
set up in DGHER to execute the PAEMR, was to implement this component in two phases. Studies
and supervision were to be carried out by international consultants. Supply contracts (mainly pipes
and ancillary equipment) and works contracts were to be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB).
*   Component B (US$2.11 million or 4 percent of total project costs): Development and protection of
about 3,000 springs in the same nine provinces. This component was to be executed by Non
Governmental Organizations (NGOs).
*   Component C (US$7.74 million or 14 percent of total project costs): Institution Building for (a)
DGHER within the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), through the provision of 48 person-months
of technical assistance (TA), equipment and staff training (11 person-months); (b) the Project Unit
through TA (156 person-months), acquisition of equipment and staff training (26 person-months); (c)
the communes and the RCEs, through the provision of training (178 person-months) of RCE staff and
water supply attendants and sensitization of rural population on issues of water use and cost recovery;
and (d) Regideso, through provision of studies, including a study of urban water tariffs and a water
supply master plan for Bujumbura.
Components A and B were in line with the development objective of improving the quantity and quality of
water in rural areas. Component A relied exclusively on foreign providers to ensure swift execution and
the quality of water systems. The institution building component was expected to help achieve the other
four project objectives and also relied heavily on external TA. Project design was not particularly
innovative or demand-driven, but replicated (to a larger scale) the design and implementation procedures of
the ongoing PAEMR.
It would be unfair to assess a project designed in 1990 against the criteria developed later in the
demand-responsive and community-driven approaches. Still, there was a disconnect between the
decentralization goal supported by the project, the allocation of project resources and the institutional/legal
arrangements for its implementation. For instance, RCEs were created and organized not by law, but by a
simple executive order of the Ministers to communal authorities (who were not elected representatives, but
appointed civil servants). Those arrangements actually weakened the legitimacy and accountability of the
RCEs. The central government agency remained the sole decision-maker and implementer of rural water
investments. Communities were not involved in the choice of service options, nor in the design of facilities.
Community participation consisted of contributing five percent towards the costs of facilities (excluding
pipes, which in fact amounted to an even more symbolic contribution equivalent to less than three percent
of the investment costs) and paying user fees covering operation and maintenance (O&M) costs and part of
renewal costs. Even though the achievement of several development objectives depended on the
performance of the RCEs, 76 percent of the financing under component C were allocated to the Project
Unit and two percent to the RCEs.
The portion of the credit allocated to Regideso may appear modest in view of the institutional strengthening
objective. Actually, a parallel Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2230-BU) comprised a substantial
component to improve Regideso's performances as a whole (including a management assistance program in
- 3 -



partnership with a professional operator). Therefore, it was not necessary to duplicate those efforts in the
PSAE, all the more as the water activities of Regideso represented less than 25 percent of the total turnover
of the utility.
3.4 Revised Components:
A major revision of project components followed the interruption of project activities resulting from the
political crisis and ethnic violence that culminated after the October 1993 coup d'Etat. In several target
areas of the project, particularly the north of the country, communication between local authorities and the
rural population broke down. All field activities stopped for about one year. The local administration was
absent and no longer credible. Maintenance of existing infrastructures and cost recovery arrangements
collapsed. International contractors, suppliers and consultants left the country. IDA suspended credit
disbursements in May 1995. The Government agreed to downsize the project, and proposed to adapt it to
what was achievable under the circumstances.
The suspension was lifted and SDR 18 million were canceled from the original SDR 24.2 million credit
amount on August 18, 1995. The Board was notified of the partial cancellation and of the reallocation of
the funds on August 21, 1995. The rural water systems component was canceled. The institution building
component was significantly reduced. The Government dismantled the Project Unit, and canceled the TA
contracts. The remaining funds were reallocated for: (a) constructing at least 1,000 protected springs
through UNICEF and NGOs; (b) the Bujumbura Water Supply Master Plan; (c) the water tariff study for
Regideso; and (d) preparing a new water project compatible with the prevailing situation in the country.
Component B (protected springs) was largely emphasized as (i) the population could easily participate in
design, construction, and cost recovery; and (ii) NGOs had the required skills and experience, not only to
construct facilities, but also to mobilize and train communities. Local contracting and consulting industries
were either nonexistent or not interested in carrying out such activities. The revision of the components
resulted in an amendment to the DCA on February 5, 1996, which also modified the disbursement
percentages (see below para. 5.4).
A minor revision took place on June 22, 2000, to include the technical audit of Regideso in the description
of component C. This audit was part of the studies required to assist in the privatization of Regideso.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
As noted above, the project objectives were fully consistent with the CAS. Project preparation did a
creditable job in: (i) developing a comprehensive investment program for the rural water supply sector by
building on the achievements of the previous operation; (ii) helping to develop the institutional framework
and finalize cost recovery policies; (iii) assisting the Government to formulate a detailed and dated sector
policy letter; and (iv) securing donors' support to the sectoral strategy, either through direct participation to
project financing or through parallel operations following the same principles. In accordance with the
practice prevailing at the time of appraisal for RWS projects, the economic analysis identified health and
time savings benefits without quantifying them. The SAR included detailed financial forecasts for the
RCEs and Regideso.
For the first time in the Africa Region, the project offered an opportunity to apply the newly issued OD
7.50 "Project on International Waterways." Several piped systems were to abstract water from small
tributaries of the Nile and the Congo rivers (Burundi spreads over the continental divide that separate the
two basins). The Bank decided, in view of the limited impact of the project on water resources (less than
0.02 percent of the average flows was at stake), not to request the Borrower to seek agreements with
eighteen riparians, but simply to inform them through their respective ministries of Foreign Affairs. None
of the riparians voiced objections.
-4 -



The project files evidence that the Government initially disagreed with the cost recovery principles. Several
meetings of the council of ministers debated the issue of the rural population having to pay for water The
Government eventually issued a satisfactory sector policy letter in May 1991, shortly after project
negotiations. Several key policy measures included in that letter were in fact carried over from the previous
project. With the benefit of hindsight, and notwithstanding the commendable efforts of the project team to
bring a consensus with the Government, one may wonder why the Bank did not insist that those measures
be taken up-front. Against this background, the absence of public consultation, social assessment or
baseline studies during project preparation deprived the project team from information about the
socioeconomic implications of the policy measures. The first supervision missions developed a set of
monitoring indicators, which was missing from the SAR
A final question is whether the project was ready for implementation at the time of Board approval. The
major investments to be financed by IDA were still at the preliminary design stage. Actually, it took more
than two years after Board approval to finalize the technical design and to award the first civil works and
pipe supply contracts.
Given the above shortcomings of project preparation and readiness, the quality at entry is rated marginally
satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievements of the project are assessed in view of the initial objectives, of the priority order of those
objectives agreed by the Bank and the Borrower at project restructuring, and also of the lengthy
interruption (almost four years) of project activities. The assessment takes into account: (i) the outcome
indicators (see Annex 1) defined in the first supervision missions; and (ii) the findings of the impact survey
and technical audit that were carried out at the end of the project. The impact survey collected data from
550 households on water use and hygiene, the participatory process and the functioning of water
committees in 19 communes in seven provinces. The technical audit covered two provinces (Muramvya
and Mwaro). The degree to which the initial project objectives have been achieved is summarized below.
The objective of improving the living conditions of the rural population by increasing the quantity and
quality of potable water has been successfully achieved. About 670,000 people have access to safe water
through over 4,600 springs and eight piped systems financed by the project. The impact survey found that:
(i) 85 percent of the respondents obtained their drinking water from protected springs (against 32 percent
before the project); (ii) only 2 percent still used unprotected supplies (against 44 percent before the project)
for their drinking water; (iii) 85 percent were satisfied with water quality; and (iv) 25 percent increased
their water consumption. This outcome is remarkable as the project originally forecasted to spend ten times
as much money to deliver water to 1,150,000 people by the year 2010.
The objective of implementing the policy of payment for water in urban and rural areas has been
substantially achieved in the rural areas covered by the project. The revenue collection rate of the RCEs fell
from about 40 percent at the time of credit approval to 20 percent in 1992 and almost to zero from 1993 to
1997. The community mobilization efforts carried out by NGOs after 1997 allowed 66 RCEs to resume
revenue collection. The impact survey found that 91 percent of households pay annual user fees in the case
of protected springs and piped systems and that they significantly contributed to investments in the case of
protected springs. Still, actual revenue collection cannot cover O&M costs and renewal costs of the piped
systems, and more than 40 percent of those systems need rehabilitation. In urban areas, the decision to
- 5-



terminate the policy of free water for urban standpipes users--already delayed in the previous project--never
materialized. The average urban water tariff increased from 40 FBu/m3 in 1991 to 130 FBu/m3 in
January 2001, but decreased in dollar terms (from 24 cents to 16 cents) and falls short of the SAR target of
34 cents/m3. The average tariff cannot cover the average operating costs (excluding depreciation) of 160
FBu/m3 and the electricity activities of Regideso finance the shortfall.
The objective of enhancing responsibility of local governments for maintaining water supply facilities has
been achieved in the areas covered by the project through: (i) the elimination of overlapping responsibilities
between Regideso, DGHER and the communes; (ii) the establishment of 66 RCEs; and (iii) the selection
and training of RCE staff and communal attendants paid from the proceeds of user fees.
The objective of strengthening the institutions involved in water supply has been achieved at the local level.
The intervention of NGOs helped reactivate 66 of the 101 RCEs that were set up in the first three years of
the project. At the central level, however, the support functions initially envisioned for DGHER
(centralized coimmunity mobilization, back-up maintenance and financial supervision of the RCEs) are not
operational. The performance and capacities of Regideso have not markedly improved.
The PSAE helped develop appropriate institutional arrangements in the water supply sector. They are
somewhat different from the ones envisioned at the beginning of the project. Regarding rural water
services, the Government now recognizes that: (i) the status of the RCEs place them in a situation of
excessive dependency on communal authorities; and (ii) DGHER cannot carry out its back-up and
monitoring responsibilities without a substantial effort towards decentralization and without the assistance
of NGOs and the private sector. Based on the experience of the PSAE and the Energy Sector
Rehabilitation Project, the Government also agreed to reform Regideso by introducing private sector
participation in the delivery of water and electricity services. The Government has adopted the necessary
legal framework and asked for Bank assistance for designing and carrying out the PSP process. The Bank
agreed to include part of the PSP studies in the PSAE and set up an IDF grant. Further progress of the
PSP process will depend on the restoration of peace and security conditions throughout the country.
Overall, the outcome of the restructured project is rated satisfactory in view of (i) the successful
achievement of its priority objective; (ii) the high cost-effectiveness of physical investments; and (iii) the
recognition by all stakeholders that genuine decentralization and demand-driven approaches are key to the
development of rural water services. Also, by helping the Government to reformulate its strategic vision of
the institutional framework and by demonstrating the potential of local actors in the development of the
sector, the project had a substantial impact on sector policies.
4.2 Outputs by comnponents:
The Rural Water Supply Systems Component (actual cost: US$5.93 million) was abandoned in July
1995. The corresponding portion of the IDA credit was canceled and the cofinanciers (AGCD and KfW)
withdrew from Burundi. The PSAE envisaged to construct 90 systems for a total length of 1,134 km At
the time of project restructuring, only eight systems (100 km of pipes) had been completed, all in the
provinces of Ngozi and Muyinga under KfW financing. DGHER awarded the works and pipe supply
contracts for 29 IDA-financed systems in September 1993, but never signed them because of the security
situation, The AGCD portion of the component only financed detailed design studies. About 40,000
people may get water from the systems that were built. Follow-up projects might efficiently use the
impressive quantity of design studies that were prepared. However, this does not amount to a significant
output and the component is rated unsatisfactory.
-6 -



At the time of project restructuring, the implementation procedures (ICB/international consultants) left no
alternative, but to cancel this component. Facing identical country circumstances, a similar project in
Rwanda (Second Water Supply Project, Cr. 1783-RW) sought in 1995 to proceed with the construction of
piped systems. It achieved very little at a high cost. Conversely, the Burundi Social Action Project
(Twitezimbere, Cr. 2494-BU) --which, in a demand-driven approach, used NGOs and local
contractors--helped construct 52 piped systems after 1996. This begs the question whether a more
ambitious revision of the design of this component would have allowed to reach the initial target. The
answer is a qualified no, as Twitezimbere financed water schemes that were on average ten times smaller
than the ones envisioned in the PSAE, and the sustainability of those schemes is uncertain.
The Protected Springs Component (actual cost: US$ 3.41 million) is rated highly satisfactory. The
physical output (4,669 springs constructed) went well beyond initial and revised targets. The planning
process was not entirely demand-driven. Thirty-two percent of the respondents of the impact survey
identified local authorities or NGO teams as the promoters of the springs. Sixty percent mentioned the
community as a whole or a sub-group of the community. Communities agreed on the location of the spring
in 65 percent of the cases and the local authorities or the technical staff of the NGOs proposed a location
when multiple sites were available. The construction phase was more participatory than the planning
phase. The NGOs trained and supervised communal attendants (fontainiers) who developed the springs
with local masons and the population and provided the construction teams with cement, pipes and all other
imported materials. More than 90 percent of the households contributed to develop the springs, by
supplying and transporting building materials and by providing unskilled work to dig trenches and arrange
the catchment area. The average household contributed 10.8 days to those tasks. Once translated into
monetary terms, the contribution of the communities amount to about US$460,000 or 14 percent of the cost
of the component (almost three times the percentage expected in the SAR).
Arrangements for the construction phase were quite effective. The NGOs successfully addressed logistical
challenges created by the scattered location of the sites and the impact of the regional embargo on the
availability of imported materials. It is unlikely that local contractors would have been able to deliver in
those circumstances. The technical audit found that the quality of the works was correct and that the unit
costs (about US$5 per person served) were lower than the ones registered by Twitezimbere (they were
actually 70 percent lower than the ones observed in Rwanda).
The results of the impact survey witness the success of this component. The springs constructed under the
project have become the major source of drinking water for the rural population. While they provide a
lower level of service than the standposts installed on the piped systems, water users appreciate the
improved convenience of use and availability of the springs. They are also reliable throughout the year:
only 13 percent of the respondents of the survey reported interruptions of service of more than three days
since their construction. Those interruptions were a result of the exceptional drought that affected the
project area in the year 2000.
The scope and approach followed by the Institution Building Component (actual cost: US$4.05 million)
were substantially modified at project restructuring. Initially, this component was devoted to providing TA
and equipment for DGHER and the project unit and finance the operating costs of the latter. The three
teams (community mobilization, maintenance and accounting, with a total staff of 45 people), set up in the
project unit to assist the RCEs, were unable to deliver services from 1993 onwards. They were disbanded
when the piped systems component was canceled. Apart from the preparation of training tools, the
establishment of about 101 RCEs at the end of 1993 and the carrying out of the sensitization campaign,
those efforts had not measured up to SAR expectations.
- 7 -



The revision of the component embraced a totally different approach by focusing on the water points and
RCEs rather than on DGHER. The NGOs in charge of implementing the Protected Springs Component
trained: (i) 244 staff (president, treasurer and members of the executive committee) of the RCEs in general
and financial management and planning; (ii) 218fontainiers in springs construction and maintenance; and
(iii) 132 mobilization workers in functioning of water committees, cost recovery and hygiene. The NGOs
also helped to re-establish the RCEs by mobilizing the population to elect water point committees, who in
turn elected members for the executive committees of the RCEs. The output of those activities is rated
satisfactory in view of: (a) the demonstrated capacity of thefontainiers who led the spring construction
teams; (b) the improved revenue collection performance; and (c) the improved capacity of the RCEs to
manage and plan facilities. Each of the 66 communes prepared its own water supply master plan with the
support of the NGOs and DGHER, through a process involving local authorities, local technical staff and
commnunity groups. The hygiene program appear to have been less successful and certainly requires
continuous efforts. The impact survey found that 80 percent of the respondents use closed containers to
carry and conserve water (which is rather attributable to the hilly terrain), but also that half of the springs
were not properly cleaned.
The results of the studies sub-component are mixed. Two major studies were not carried out: (i) the
organization study of DGHER--that would have helped to integrate the project unit into DGHER--was no
longer justified after 1995; and (ii) the urban water tariff study, which was eventually awarded, but never
launched (see Section 5.1). The two studies completed for Regideso (Bujumbura Water Supply Master
Plan and the technical audit) have no direct institution building impact, but they provide a comprehensive
assessment of rehabilitation and investment needs that will be included in PSP bidding documents.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
The SAR did not include NPV or ERR calculations. As protected springs usually provide a basic and
identical service to all users, the best indicator of the cost-effectiveness of the project is the investment cost
per person served. In that respect, the restructured project is highly effective, with an average cost of about
US$5/person served, which reflect the competitive costs achieved by the NGOs (see Annex 3).
The SAR also pointed to health and time savings as potential benefits of the project without quantifying
them. The impact survey provides an interesting assessment of those benefits, as perceived by the users of
protected springs. Eighty-one percent of the respondents observed a reduction of diarrhea and parasitic
diseases. In addition, while springs are usually not expected to generate major time savings (in any case
much less that the piped systems), their actual impact was higher than anticipated. Respondents mention
that protected springs save some travel time (they are on average 10 to 15 percent closer to their homes that
the previous source of supply), and more importantly, that they substantially reduce queuing times (69
percent of the respondents wait less than 15 minutes to be served and 44 percent wait less than five
minutes).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The SAR, in accordance with the practice prevailing at that time for RWS projects, did not include FRR
calculations. However, it provided detailed financial forecasts for the RCEs, which reflected essentially the
costs and revenues to be generated by the piped systems. Since the piped systems component was canceled,
it is not possible to provide a meaningful comparison of actual and forecast financial statements.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial impact on the local institutions (RCEs and water point committees) and also
on the NGOs. First, the RCEs, which were created under the project, benefit from trained human resources
- 8 -



and have established a (still modest) financial resource base. Second, communal master plans provide an
efficient programming tool for future interventions. The master plans allow local decisionmakers to
consider a set of demand-driven RWS subprojects, which are more realistic than those formerly prepared
by international firms. They will be particularly useful when CDD-type projects are developed in the RWS
sector in Burundi. Conversely, the conditions prevailing in Burundi during implementation undermined the
central government agencies, and nullified the project efforts to strengthen DGHER. In view of this
contrasted performance, the institution building impact of the project is rated modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governmnent or implementing agency;
Outside factors dictated project implementation. During the early years of the project, Burundi experienced
turmoil and a high level of insecurity, with the death of two Presidents of the Republic, one during an
attempted coup in October 1993 and the other in Rwanda in April 1994. The October coup attempt was
followed by widespread massacres and the collapse of the Executive Branch at central and local levels.
The situation was characterized by a large number of administrative and professional staff absent from
rural areas, including members of RCEs, a paralysis of the economy due to the destruction of social
infrastructure, including water facilities, and involuntary displacement of people and refugees. Those
factors made it impossible for the actors (project unit and TA staff, consultants; contractors and NGOs) to
reach most of the project areas and carry out their activities. Bank supervision missions were interrupted.
Halfway through the project life, only 12 percent of the initial credit amount had been disbursed. The first
suspension of disbursements (from May 17 to July 26, 1995) took place at a time when project execution
had virtually stopped. The suspension had no direct impact on implementation, but essentially accelerated
the restructuring of the project. The project was again affected by the July 25, 1996 coup. Disbursements
were suspended for the second time on October 10, 1996, pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, because the conditions for project implementation and supervision were impeded by the
situation of insecurity prevailing in the country, and the trade embargo and economic sanctions imposed by
neighboring countries. The second suspension was lifted on May 14, 1997. Thus, again the project
remained almost inactive during the year 1997.
Country circumstances also influenced the external partners of the project. Cofinanciers suspended their
participation in 1996. The firm that had been awarded the contract of the urban tariff study declined to
sign it. As only one proposal had been received, the study was postponed indefinitely.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The exceptional situation described above hinders the assessment of the factors that were really under
government control. On the positive side, the 1993 transformation of the Ministry of Rural Development
(MDR) into a Ministry in charge of Communal Development (MDCA) should have facilitated the
collaboration between the RCEs and communal authorities, but the administrative collapse largely
prevented this from happening. On the negative side, the frequent changes of senior staff and the inability
to provide counterpart funding are mostly attributable to outside factors, while the reluctance of the
Government to apply the cost recovery policy stipulated in the Sector Policy Letter denotes a lack of
genuine commitment (see "Borrower Performance" in Section 7).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During the periods when outside factors were not overwhelming, the management performance of the
successive project coordinators appears as a key factor of implementation progress, particularly after the
restructuring of the project (see "Implementing Agency Performance" in Section 7).
-9-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The final costs and financing of the project deviate substantially from the SAR estimates. The final
project costs (US$13.7 million or 25 percent of the SAR estimate of US$54.7 million) reflect the
cancellation of 75 percent of the credit amount at project restructuring and the revision of the components.
Accordingly, less than US$6 million were spent on rural water supply systems (against US$44 million
forecast in the SAR), while the final cost of the springs is 60 percent higher than expected. Project
financing was significantly affected by the withdrawal of the cofinanciers who contributed US$5 million (or
27 percent of the SAR estimates of US$18.8 million). The February 1996 amendment of the DCA
acknowledged the inability of the Government to provide significant counterpart funding by increasing the
disbursement percentages to 100 percent for those categories cofmanced by the Government. Finally,
rural households, and to a lesser degree, NGOs, were the only project partners to deliver more than
expected. In-kind contributions of rural communities (US$0.5 million) compensated the defaulting
communes and NGOs contributed US$0.11 million in back-up support and management costs.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The major achievements of the restructured project, which resulted from the development and protection of
springs, are likely to be sustained. First, the spring development technology is simple, appropriate,
replicable and affordable; all maintenance materials and skills can be found locally. Second, according to
the impact survey, beneficiaries seem to really appreciate the service delivered, which has improved their
living conditions and health. Finally, despite the fact that activities of the RCEs were severely undermined
during the sociopolitical crisis, the RCEs are still functioning. They were reactivated and trained during
the later years of the project. They have hired the required skilled staff to manage and maintain existing
water facilities and resumed collecting tariff among water users. Nevertheless, they will need adequate
support to improve their performance, which is planned by DGHER.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The springs constructed under the project are already in operation. Arrangements for their maintenance
through thefontainiers are in place, as well as arrangements for collecting user fees. The Borrower's
assessment (Annex 8) elaborates on arrangements to improve the accountability and performance of RCEs.
They comprise the following: (i) establishing, before the end of the year 2002, RCE coordinators in all
provinces with the support of UNICEF, AGCD and various NGOs (three coordinators are already active in
Karuzi, Makamba and Ruhigi); (ii) changing the legal status of the RCEs into associations (ASBL) to
reinforce their autonomy, vis-a-vis, the communal authorities (this change already occurred in Karuzi and
Makamba); and (iii) improving the monitoring capacities of DGHER.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was a logical follow-up to the PAEMR, which had helped formulate and test a new sector
strategy. As mentioned earlier, the project was fully consistent with the CAS. The preparation team, also
in charge of supervising the PAEMR, was familiar with the country and the sector. The team rightly
developed the concept of a nationwide operation, based on an adequate institutional and policy framework
that would mainstream the experience of the ongoing operation and devoted substantial time and resources
to market the project concept among the donors' community. The Bank's performance at this stage was
fully satisfactory.
The Bank team delivered a solid performance at the preparation stage, but would have likely benefited from
- 10 -



a wider skills mix. The strong points of the preparation work comprised the identification of a
comprehensive sector investment program and the finalization of the institutional framework for the RCEs.
The team must also be credited with convincing the Government to include the construction of protected
springs in the IDA-financed components, whereas the Government had insisted earlier to reserve such
facilities for grant financing. A weaker point was the conviction--acquired in the implementation of the
PAEMR--that the deployment of cost recovery policies depended exclusively on Government decisions.
The involvement of social specialists in the team would have brought a better understanding of the issue.
Project appraisal and negotiations offered a last opportunity to verify the Government's commitment to
policy reforms. The institutional reforms included in the Sector Policy Letter were found to be adequate by
the appraisal mission, but another Bank mission had to visit Burundi before negotiations to reach a
consensus on cost recovery measures. Those efforts were not entirely successful, and finally, the signing of
a satisfactory policy letter became a condition for Board presentation. It is surprising that Bank
management did not insist, prior to negotiations, to make the completion of the unfinished business
inherited from the PAEMR a condition for credit effectiveness. Therefore, and in line with the assessment
of the quality at entry, the Bank's lending performance is assessed as marginally satisfactory.
7.2 Stupervision:
Supervision initially focused on the technical aspects of the project and on procurement issues.
Aide-memoires and follow-up letters sent to the Government in 1992-1993 also pointed to the delayed
implementation of the cost recovery measures. Project ratings, however, remained satisfactory against the
overwhelming evidence that the project objectives were jeopardized and that implementation was lagging.
No remedies were invoked, but it is doubtful they would have had any beneficial impact at that time,
beyond causing an indefinite suspension of disbursements. The Government was indeed facing much more
pressing issues.
The supervision perfornance improved markedly when missions resumed in February 1995. After briefly
considering the cancellation of the project, the Bank concluded that a downsized project should be the right
instrument to assist a rural population in dire need of basic services. Management support, and
particularly the dedication of the sector manager expedited the restructuring of the project. The Bank team
should also be commended for redesigning the implementation process and for packaging a wide range of
tasks (springs development, reactivation of RCEs, training and planning assistance) into a comprehensive
contract for the NGOs.
As external factors delayed the actual restart of project activities and reduced the frequency of headquarters
missions, the Country Office played an increasing role in addressing procurement and financial
management issues and assisting the Government to improve the performance of the project coordination
unit. The Bank showed flexibility by approving three successive extensions of the closing date that were
necessary to complete the protected springs component and by agreeing to finance the technical audit of
Regideso under the credit.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The flexibility and innovation demonstrated at project restructuring, which allowed the project to achieve
high impact on the ground, largely overcome the shortcomings of the earlier supervision and the overall
Bank performnance can be assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. The sectoral agencies, particularly the
- 11 -



PAEMR unit, closely cooperated with the Bank team to design the components, the implementation
arrangements and most of the policy reformns supported by the project. However, the final agreement with
the Government on the sensitive cost recovery aspects appears to have resulted more from the desire to
come to a closure than on a genuine conviction.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
Facing the perspective of implementing difficult policy measures in the politically charged environment of
the 1993 elections, the Government decided to delay them indefinitely. Actually, many candidates
campaigned on the theme of "Free water for all." As the country situation worsened, the failure of the
Borrower to comply with many provisions of the DCA became meaningless in comparison with the extent
of the crisis. In 1995, and following the first suspension of disbursements, the Government agreed on the
restructuring concept. Once restructured, the project received the full support of the Government, including
the provincial authorities, which facilitated the field activities of the NGOs without interfering with them.
The swift reimbursement to the Special Account of the ineligible expenditures incurred by the project
coordinator and the immediate termination of the latter also evidenced the Governmuent's commitment to the
successful implementation of the restructured project.
7.6 Inmplementing Agency:
The performance and the role of the implementing agency, DGHER, greatly varied over time.
In the first years of the project, the Project Unit actually carried out most of the implementing
responsibilities. Its performance was satisfactory, albeit slightly inferior to the one observed in the
PAEMR, and characterized by procurement slower than expected and some internal friction. As mentioned
earlier, the technical assistance team was forced into inactivity after October 1993, but its effectiveness had
been reduced before that date by the lack of Government support to the viability of the RCEs. At
restructuring, DGHER proceeded in an orderly fashion to terminate the remaining contracts and Project
Unit staff. The project coordinator recruited afterwards to manage a much smaller coordination unit
delivered a sluggish performance and delayed the signing of the first NGO contracts until the end of 1997.
He was eventually tenninated in February 1998 when a SOE review, carried out by the Country Office,
evidenced the payment out of the Special Account of about USS32,000 of ineligible expenditures. Drawing
the lessons from those unfortunate experiences, the Minister of Communal Development decided to
repatriate the project coordination responsibilities into DGHER. The General Manager of DGHER took
over project management and put the restructured project back on track, while the NGOs assumed most of
the implementing responsibilities. Project implementation improved markedly, thanks to the dedication of
the General Manager--who unfortunately passed away in August 1999. Implementation remained
satisfactory afterwards, with the exception of one procurement issue which was promptly solved. Audit
reports were timely issued, without qualifications. Progress reports were well documented and completed
by detailed information provided by the NGOs and the RCEs. The five NGOs delivered an impressive
quantity of work and a variety of services under challenging circumstances.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The highly satisfactory record of the NGOs, which actually implemented the project from 1998
onwards--and the strong support provided by the Government after the restructuring--are key to the
satisfactory outcome of the project and offset the chaotic coordination performance. Therefore, the overall
performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The most important lesson to be drawn from the difficult history of the PSAE is that even in conflict
situations, it is possible to restructure projects and to achieve high impact by concentrating on the most
- 12-



basic level of services and using adapted and low-cost solutions. Another related lesson, confirmed by the
experience of the Burundi Social Action Project and a contrario by the Rwanda Second Water Supply
Project, is that in crisis situations, a bottom-up approach is more likely to succeed, even if the social
cohesion has failed. Delegating implementation responsibilities to dedicated NGOs also may restore a
degree of trust that governmental bodies are unable to inspire and also ensure the quality of execution,
whereas foreign and local contractors may be reluctant to intervene in a challenging work environment.
A second lesson is that building on the achievements of a "highly satisfactory" project does not by itself
warrant the success of a follow-up operation and does not automatically warrant that the quality at entry
will be satisfactory. This is particularly true if the assessment of the achievements emphasizes technical
performance and there is no proven record of sustainability. The preparation team of the follow-up
operation has to exercise particular caution and demonstrate the replicability of the initial operation.
A final lesson is that the design and implementation of cost recovery policies for rural water services
requires much more than mechanically assessing costs and tariffs and reaching an agreement with the
central government. This lesson has been already integrated in the current practice, which brings water
users in the picture through willingness-to-pay studies and social assessments and recommends to closely
link cost recovery and service levels.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's assessment (in French) of the implementation of the project is attached as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments from the cofinanciers are available.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The ICR mission interviewed three of the five NGOs which implemented the restructured project. All
mentioned that the springs constructed (with the population) are really appreciated and used. They outlined
that, after the difficult times endured by the population, trust was the key factor of community
participation, and that trust could only be built on the basis of a continuous relationship. Trust is also a
key element of the sustainability of the RCEs. All NGOs mentioned that the contract period was too short
to ensure the full development of the capacities of the RCEs, with the notable exception of the fontainiers.
They support the concept of regional coordinators of the RCEs, which DGHER is deploying (one of the
NGOs finances a regional coordinator). They also support the transformation of the RCEs into ASBLs,
but some doubt whether this change of status would ensure autonomy vis-a-vis, the local authorities. All
NGOs consider that the RCEs are able to maintain and also develop protected, springs. However, the
adequate maintenance of piped systems would require at least one technical staff per commune, paid by the
RCE. Some NGOs recommended to separate clearly the representative functions in the RCE committee
from the financial management and technical functions.
Regarding the technical options, one NGO mentioned that low-yield springs should be systematically
associated with a small masonry tank that would reduce queuing times. None of the NGOs mentioned any
problem with the management and timely payment of their contracts. One of them mentioned that the fixed
prices contract were problematic in the context of high inflation prevailing in Burundi.
10. Additional Information
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/lmpact Indicators:
?1~Idctr~Reie  fe.                                                        cullLatet'!. 
Population served by piped systems              750,000           40,000            40,000
(activity canceled)
Population served by springs                    400,000           150,000          630,000
Total population served                        1,140,000          190,000          670,000
Cost recovery:
- percentage of rural population paying            100%              N/A              91%
user fees for water                         (all facilities)             (protected springs)
- level of urban water tariffs: FBu/m3               55              N/A               130
(equivalent US$1m3)                 (0.34)             N/A             (0.16)
- free water at urban standpipes        Policy terminated            N/A      Not done
Improved donors' coordination            Annual donors'  Activity suspended  Activity suspended
meeting
Improved sector institutional setting     Regideso no      Regideso no         Done
longer involved in  longer involved in
RWS              RWS
utput Indicators:
No. of piped systems constructed                     90                8                 8
Total length of networks                           1,134             100               100
(activity canceled)
No. of springs constructed                        3,000             1,000            4,669
No. of r6gies communales established                113              N/A                66
Community contribution to investment:
- percentage of contributing communities           100%             100%              90%
- contribution as percentage of costs               5%                5%              14%
Training (person-months):
- DGHER higher-level staff                           29              N/A                 4
- Accountants                                         8              N/A                 1
- Communal attendants                               138              N/A               116
- RCE staff                                          40              N/A                61
Total                                               215              N/A               182
Technical assistance (person-months)                204               96                96
(activity canceled)
Studies:
- Sector organization study             Study completed   Activity canceled   Not done
- Tariff study (Regideso)               Study completed   Study completed     Not done
- WS Master plan for Bujumbura          Study completed   Study completed       Done
- Technical audit of Regideso (water and  Not included     Not included         Done
power)
- 14-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost by Component   Appraisal    Revised   Actual/Latest  Percentage   Percentage
Estimate    Estimate     Estimate   of Appraisal   of Revised
US$ million  US$ million   US$ million
A. Rural water supply systems       43.85         5.93          5.93          14%         100%
B. Protected springs                 2.11         3.50         3.41         162%           97%
C. Institution building              7.74         4.42         4.05          52%           92%
D. Refinancing of PPF                1.00        0.34          0.34          34%          100%
Total                               54.70        14.19         13.73         25%           97%
Costs of revised components after project restructuring
Project Financing by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Component                    Appraisal      ActuallLatest    Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
US$million      US$million
A. Rural water supply systems:
IDA            24.41             0.92             4%
Co-financiers           17.45             5.00             29%
Government              1.28             0.00             0%
Communes & communities                0.71            0.01              1%
Sub-total           43.85             5.93             14%
B. Springs:
IDA             2.00             2.77            138%
Government              0.00             0.00             N/A
Communes & communities                0.11            0.46            418%
NGOs              0.00             0.18             N/A
Sub-total            2.11             3.41            162%
C. Institution building
IDA             5.28             3.56            67%
Co-financiers            1.35             0.00             0%
Government              1.10             0.49             45%
Sub-total            7.74             4.05             52%
D. Refinancing of PPF                             1.00             0.34             34%
Total Project
IDA            32.70             7.59            23%
Co-financiers           18.80             5.00             27%
Government              2.38             0.49             21%
Communes & communities                0.82             0.47            57%
NGOs              0.00             0.18             N/A
Grand total           54.70            13.73             25%
- 15-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB            Other'         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         14.30          0.80            1.80           9.80          26.70
(12.90)        (0.70)          (1.60)         (0.00)        (15.20)
2. Goods                         8.40           0.80            0.20           5.30          14.70
(8.40)         (0.80)         (0.20)         (0.00)         (9.40)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00            5.60           4.20          9.80
(Consultants & TA)              (0.00)          (0.00)         (5.60)         (0.00)        (5.60)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00            0.40           0.00          0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)         (0.00)         (0.40)
5. Incremental operating         0.00           0.00            2.10           0.00          2.10
costs                           (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.1 0)       (0.00)         (1. 1 0)
6. Refinancing of PPF            0.00           0.00            1.00           0.00           1.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)
Total                         22.70           1.60          11.10           19.30         54.70
_   (21.30)         (1.50)         (9.90)          (0.00)        (32.70)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure: Category                  Procurement Method
Expenditure C:ategoryr   0   ICB            NCB           Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           3.41           1.68           5.09
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.77)         (0.00)        (2.77)
2. Goods                         0.31           0.08           0.02           1.44           1.85
(0.30)         (0.08),        (0.02)         (0.00)        (0.40)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           3.13           1.89           5.02
(Consultants & TA)              (0.00)          (0.00)        (3.13)         (0.00)         (3.13)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00           0.25           0.00           0.25
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.25)         (0.00)        (0.25)
5. Incremental operating         0.00           0.00           1.18           0.00           1.18
costs                           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.70)        (0.00)         (0.70)
6. Refinancing of PPF            0.00           0.00           0.34           0.00           0.34
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.34)         (0.00)        (0.34)
Total                         0.31           0.08           8.33           5.01          13.73
(0.30)         (0.08)         (7.21)         (0.00)        (7.59)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
I lncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted s-aff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 16-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost-Effectiveness    0
By focusing on the development of protected springs, the restructured project financed highly cost-effective
investments. The actual unit cost of a protected spring amounts to an average US$640 (i.e. US$5 per
person served). This compares favorably with the SAR estimates of US$700/spring. One may note that
the bulk of investments forecast in the SAR was devoted to piped systems with a substantially higher unit
cost of US$58 per person served. Piped systems provide a superior level of water service, including the
possibility of private connections. They require less effort than springs, which are located in the bottom
lands while the population usually resides in the upper part of the hills and are the most suitable solution to
serve agglomerated groups of population. Still, the low-cost springs serve four times as many people than
expected at the time of project restructuring.
The unit costs also compares favorably with the unit costs observed in the Burundi Social Action Project
(UJS$720/spring) and in the Rwanda Second Water Supply Project (US$2,100/spring). The latter
employed local contractors, supervised by foreign consultants, while the former employed NGOs.
Benefits
In the absence of baseline studies on benefits identified in the SAR, it may be useful to provide the findings
of the impact survey regarding health and time savings.
Percentage of respondents mentioning a reduction of diseases after development of the spring: 81 percent
Distance to drinking water point (percentage of households)
Before the project    After the project
Less than 100m              10%                  15%
100m- 500m                  53%                  53%
500m - 1,000m               23%                  22%
More than 1,000m            15%                  10%
Waiting time at the spring (percentage of households):
Less than 5 minutes         44%
6 - 15 minutes              25%
16 - 30 minutes             10%
More than 60 minutes        5%
- 17 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/88                       2   Sanitary Enginee, Financial.
Analyst
05/90                       3   Mun. Eng., San. Eng. (Cons),
Fin. Analyst (Cons)
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/90                       4   Mun. Eng., San. Eng., Fin.
Analyst, San. Eng. (Cons)
01/91                        1   Municipal Engineer
Supervision
12/91                        2   Mun. Eng., Fin. Analyst            HS            HS
05/92                        2   Mun. Eng., Fin. Analyst            HS            HS
11/92                        2   Mun. Eng., Fin. Analyst            HS            HS
05/93                        2   Mun. Eng., Fin. Analyst             S            HS
10/93                        3   Mun. Eng., Fin. An., Research      S              S
Assistant.
02/95                        3   Mun. Eng., Fin. Analyst,           U              U
Highway Engineer
07/95                        1   High. Eng.                         U              U
09/95                        2   High. Eng., Fin. Analyst            S             S
02/96                        1   High. Eng.                          S             S
03/97                        1   High. Eng.                          U             U
03/98                        2   Water Specialist, Economist         S             S
(Cons)
06/99                        1   Water Spec.                         S             S
04/00                        2   Econ. (Cons), Op. Officer           S             S
ICR
04/01                        2    Water Spec., Proc. Spec.           S             S
11/01                       2    Water Spec. San. Eng.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               9.60                        18.80
Appraisal/Negotiation                   42.50                       98.40
Supervision                            126.88                      281.19
ICR                                      7.71                       29.10
Total                                  186.69                      427.49
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
lISector Policies                         OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
H Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
0 Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
F Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
NGO involvement
- 19-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
N Lending                                              OHS *S C U O HU
N Supervision                                          OHS *S   C u   O HU
M Overall                                              OHS *S  C U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
F Preparation                                          OHS OS   C U  O HU
2 Government implementation performance                O HS * s  0  U  C HU
E Implementation agency performance                    OHS OS   C u   C HU
Z Overall                                              OHS *S  C U C HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Etude d'impact des sources amenagees. CERDA, juin 2001 (29 pages et annexes)
Audit technique des sources amenagees/Provinces de Muramvya et Mwaro. Consultant Bemd Dobberstein,
juin 2001 (37 pages et annexes)
Rapport d'evaluation des travaux d'amenagement de 500 sources dans la Province de Gitega. Terre Sans
Frontieres, septembre 1998 (9 pages et annexes).
Rapport de cl6ture de l'amenagement de 700 sources d'eau potable dans la Province de Makamba.
Communaute des eglises de Pentecbte au Burundi (CEPBU), septembre 1999 (35 pages et annexes)
Rapport final des travaux d'amenagement de 300 sources d'eau souterraine et remise en place des regies
communales d'eau en Province de Cibitoke. Developpement et Habitat Rural (DHR), decembre 1999 (9
pages)
Rapport de cl6ture de l'amenagement de 700 sources dans la Province de Karusi.
Communaut&-Engagement-Service-Volontariat (CISV), mars 2000, (13 pages et annexes).
Enquete nationale sur la couverture en eau potable et assainissement. DGHER, Juin 1999 (32 pages et
annexes)
Rapport de synthese des journees de reflexion sur la gestion communautaire des infrastructures
hydrauliques en milieu rural en faveur des provinces de Kirundo, Muyinga, Kayanza et Ngozi.
- 21 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET SECTORIEL D'ALIMENTATION EN EAU (PSAE)
Credit IDA 2288-BU
Contribution de I'Emprunteur
A. INTRODUCTION
1.     Le Gouvemement du Burundi et l'Association Intemationale de Developpement (IDA) ont conclu
en date du 7 aout 1991 un Accord de Credit pour le financement d'un Projet Sectoriel d'Alirnentation en
Eau pour un montant initial de 24,2 millions de DTS.
2.     Les objectifs du Projet etaient:
a) d'amrliorer les conditions de vie de la population en accroissant la quantite d'eau potable
disponible et en ameliorant la qualite,
b) de mettre en ceuvre une politique de recouvrement des cofits dans les zones urbaines et rurales,
c) de responsabiliser les autorites locales en matiere de maintenance des installations
d'alimentation en eau,
d) de renforcer les institutions du Burundi intervenant dans le secteur de l'alimentation en eau,
e) d'elaborer et d'appliquer des dispositions institutionnelles appropriees dans le secteur de
l'alimentation en eau.
3.     Le projet comprenait les parties suivantes:
*  Realisation de nouveaux reseaux d'AEP dans neuf provinces avec le concours d'autres
bailleurs de fonds,
* L'amenagement et la protection de 3000 sources dans les neuf provinces,
* Le renforcement des institutions,
* La sensibilisation de la population sur l'utilisation de l'eau potable,
*  L'execution de deux etudes dans le secteur de l'eau pour le compte de la Regideso.
4.     La crise socio-economique qu'a connu le Burundi depuis octobre 1993 a conduit a une insecurite
generalisec dans le pays et les objectifs du Projet ont te reorientes. C'est ainsi qu'en 1995, le Projet a
connu une premiere suspension et par suite, le Gouvemement du Burundi et l'Association ont convenu de
restructurer le projet et de revoir a la baisse le montant du cr6dit.
5.     Apres la restructuration d'aou&t 1995, trois objectifs principaux ont ete retenus, a savoir:
*  L'amenagement de quelques 1000 (ou plus) sources d'eau dans neuf provinces retenus pour le
projet,
* La Redynamisation des Regies Communales de l'eau (RCE),
* L'appui a la Reforme institutionnelle de la Regideso.
- 22 -



B. EXECUTION DU PROJET
6.     L'Accord de Credit a ete signe en aouit 1991 et le projet a demarre ses activites en Janvier 1992. La
date de cl6ture qui 6tait initialement prevue pour le 31 decembre 1997 a ete prorog6e au 30 juin 2001. Le
projet a connu une premiere suspension en 1995, tout le personnel du Projet PSAE a ete licencie. En aouit
1995, il y a eu une restructuration du Projet, ce qui a conduit a une mise sur pied d'une cellule du Projet
avec un personnel reduit. Une autre suspension a eu lieu en 1996 suite a 1'embargo impose au Burundi.
Toutes ces deux suspensions ont eu des repercussions negatives sur l'execution du projet. Les objectifs du
Projet ont e  revus, et une bonne partie des fonds du credit alloues au Projet ont ete annules passant de
24,2 millions de DTS a 6,2 millions de DTS. Le volet Adductions d'eau prevues dans quatre provinces:
Kayanza, Karuzi, Gitega et Muramvya a ete supprime tout en laissant beaucoup de dossiers d'etudes
d'execution et de projets de dossiers d'appels d'offres sans etre realises. pres la restructuration du projet,
les volets amenagement des sources et redynamisation des Regies Communales de 1'eau ont ete realises
avec le concours des ONGs ceuvrant dans le secteur de l'alimentation en eau. De meme, deux etudes ont pu
etre menees pour le compte de la Regideso : 1'etude du Schema Directeur de l'Approvisionnement en Eau de
la ville de Bujumbura jusqu'en l'an 2010 et l'Audit Technique des installations de la Regideso en vue de
realiser la reforme de cette institution.
C. REALISATIONS DU PROJET
lRalisations avant la restructuration
8.     Les realisations avant la restructuration ont e  les suivantes
* Projet de construction de vingt cinq reseaux d'AEP dans les provinces de Kayanza et Karuzi:
ce projet a ete arrete suite A la crise d'octobre 1993, le marche pour les fournitures et
1'execution des travaux ainsi que celui relatif A la mission de surveillance et de contr6le des
travaux n'ont pas ete notifies aux attributaires.
*  Realisation de treize reseaux en provinces de Ngozi et de Muyinga (Financement : KfW) : ce
programme a e  arret egalement comme le precedent. Les realisations se linitent A la mise en
auvre de huit reseaux d'AEP ; 60 % des couts previsionnels du programme ont e  decaisses.
Notons que toutes les foumitures de tuyauteries et accessoires etaient dejA livrees au moment
ou: les travaux ont ete arretes.
*  Programme de couverture maxiinale des besoins en eau en provinces de Gitega et de
Muramvya: I'etude de faisabilite a demarre en mars 1991 sur une partie de financement du
Credit IDA 1625-BU. L'etude d'execution a commence fin septembre 1993, elle a donne lieu A
une projection de 40 reseaux d'AEP pour un lineaire de 540 km. Cette etude a 6te achevee en
1995. Ces deux etudes n'ont pas pu etre mises en ceuvre suite A la crise d'octobre 1993.
*  Programme de couverture maximale des besoins en eau des provinces de Bubanza, Cibitoke et
Makamba (Financement : AGCD) : des etudes d'identification et d'execution ont ete menees
dans des provinces de Bubanza, Cibitoke et Makamba. Ces etudes n'ont pas pu etre mises en
ceuvre, A l'instar du programme precedent.
*  Amenagement des sources: initialement, il avait ete prevu que le PSAE amenage environ 3000
sources avec le concours des ONG et de 1'UNICEF. Aussi, en novembre 1992, un Protocole
d'Accord avait ete conclu entre le Ministere du Developpement Rural et 1'ONG AFVP pour
realiser 900 sources dans la province de Kayanza Le programme s'est arrete au mois de mai
1995 suite A la crise, apres avoir realise 184 sources amenagees. Au mois de juillet 1993, un
autre protocole a ete conclu avec l'ONG LVIA (Italie) pour realiser 450 sources dans la
province de Cibitoke, seules 176 sources ont ete realisees jusqu'A la fm du mois de mai 1995.
- 23 -



Les deux provinces totalisent ainsi 360 sources amenagees et receptionnees.
* Interventions d'urgence : suite aux evenements d'octobre 1993, des interventions d'urgence ont
et realisees sur recommandation de la Mission Residente de la Banque Mondiale et du Chef de
Projet. Ces interventions ont concemr essentiellement des reseaux en panne qui devaient
alimenter des camps de refugies et ou de deplaces pour un cout global d'environ 14 millions de
Francs Burundais.
*  Encadrement des Regies Communales de l'Eau: la mise en place de l'organisation du secteur
de 1'alimentation en eau potable en milieu rural selon la <( Note d'Instructions aux Gouvemeurs
des Provinces et Administrateurs communaux)) du mois de Novembre 1990 a constitue une
activite importante pour le bureau du PSAE. Malheureusement les resultats atteints en 1992 se
sont degrades A partir de 1993.
* Assistance technique : en conformite avec l'Accord de Credit, deux assistants techniques ont
e  mis A la disposition du Projet; un Expert en Developpement Communautaire et un
Conseiller Technique et en meme temps Coordonnateur du Projet.
*  La mission du premier assistant a pris fin en decembre 1994 et celle du Coordonnateur du
Projet le 31 juillet 1995, suite A la premiere suspension des decaissements du Credit qui avait
ete decidee le 17 mai 1995. Le couit global pour les deux assistants etait evalue a environ 328
millions de francs Burundais.
*  Acquisition des equipements: des equipements (vehicules, micro - ordinateurs,...) ont 6te
acquis avec les fonds du Credit, soit pour le compte du Projet lui - meme, soit pour le compte
de la DGHER. Le montant de ces acquisitions pour les deux entites s'eleve A environ: 108
millions de francs Burundais.
*  Actions de Fonnation: des cadres du Projet, de la DGHER et de la Regideso ont pu participer
a des seminaires de fonnation qui se tenaient A l'etranger. Le cofit de ces actions de fonmation
s'eleve A environ: 14 millions de francs Burundais.
RWalisations apres la restructuration
9.     Apres la restructuration intervenue en Aout 1995, le Projet a concentre ses activites sur la
construction des sources amenagees dans Neuf provinces : Gitega, Muyinga, Kayanza, Makamba,
Cibitoke, Ngozi, Muramvya, Karuzi et Mwaro. Ces travaux etaient egalement accompagnes par differents
volets : la relance ou la mise en place des Regies Communales de 1'eau (RCE), la confection des plans
hydrauliques communaux, la formation des cadres des RCE, des animateurs communaux et des fontainiers
communaux. L'ensemble de ces realisations est repris dans l'annexe.
10.    Pour l'amenagement des sources, plus de 4300 sources ont e  amenagees, la population desservie
par ces nouvelles sources amenagees (avant et apres la restructuration du projet) s'eleve A environ 126.000
menages ; soit une amelioration du taux de desserte en eau potable de 11 % sur l'ensemble de la population
du Burundi. Soixante six (66) plans hydrauliques communaux ont e  confectionnes, plus de 210 fontainiers
et 132 animateurs communaux ont ete formes.
11.    De meme, 66 regies communales de l'eau ont ete redynamisees ou mises en place, Le
Gouvemement du Burundi devrait poursuivre cette action en appuyant financierement la DGHER car ces
RCE sont encore jeunes et ont besoin d'un encadrement pendant un certain temps. Le delai consacre A
l'animation - sensibilisation devrait etre plus long pour accompagner les RCE.
12.    D'autres activites ont ete realisees A savoir:
La formation des cadres du projet et de la DGHER A l'etranger dans des secteurs axes
principalement sur la viabilite des programmes d'eau et d'assainissement en milieu rural,
I'approche participative dans l'execution des projets, la gestion des projets, la passation des
marches finances par l'IDA, la decentralisation dans l'execution et la gestion des projets
- 24 -



d'AEP et d'Assainissement.
*  Deux etudes ont ete menees pour le compte de la Regideso, a savoir: (a) I'actualisation du
schema Directeur de l'alimentation en eau de la ville de Bujumbura jusqu'a l'horizon 2010 et
(b) I'audit technique de l'outil de production de la Regideso dans le cadre de la privatisation de
la Regideso
*  Pour la DGHER, deux etudes ont ete realisees: (a) I'etude d'impact des sources amrnagees a
e  realisee a partir des enquetes aupres des menages utilisateurs des sources amenagees et des
comites de point d'eau mis en place et (b) l'audit technique des sources amenagees dans les
provinces de Muramvya et Mwaro a e execute en vue de faire le point sur la qualite, le cofit
et la cadence de realisation des travaux d'amenagement des sources d'une part et de faire une
proposition sur des ameliorations &ventuelles dans 1'execution des ouvrages et la participation
des beneficiaires.
13.    Le projet a ete mis en vigueur dans les delais ; il a demarre en janvier 1992. Avec l'annee 1993, les
problemes ont commence a se manifester, etant donne que cette periode coincidait avec des activites
politiques intenses sur le terrain ; les populations et les autorites administratives avaient d'autres
preoccupations. Avec la crise d'octobre 1993 ; la partie Realisation de nouvelles AEP etait pratiquement
impossible a executer ; I'insecurite ne le permettant pas ; cette composante a ete annulee lors de la
restructuration. En effet:
* Les RCE etaient aussi presque partout dissoutes avec la crise,
Les differents bailleurs de fonds ont dfi suspendre leur cooperation.
Apr&s la restructuration en 1996, la cellule du Projet a demarre tres difficilement pour des
circonstances multiples..
Bilan des sources amenagees
14.    La construction des sources amenagees appelle les remarques suivantes:
*  L'apport des materiaux locaux par les populations n'a pas toujours ete facile ; d'ofi certaines
sources identifiees ont ete parfois abandonnees.
  La participation des autorites locales n'a pas toujours et bonne, certains responsables ne se
sont pas impliques dans le programme d'amenagement des sources ; car ils preferaient de
grandes infrastructures telles que les adductions d'eau.
* La rarete des devises sur le marche local a occasionne la penurie des materiaux locaux, du
carburant sans oublier des retards de paiement par le biais de la Banque Centrale.
*  L'insecurite a fait que les travaux pouvaient etre realises dans une province donnee et pas dans
une autre.
*  Malgre les difficultes susmentionnees, le Projet a pu depasser de loin les objectifs fixes passant
de 1000 sources a plus de 4000 sources amenagees.
*  Les ouvrages construits sont en bon etat et sont utilises par les populations beneficiaires, les
Comites des points d'eau sont mis en place ; le probleme majeur etant l'emplacement des
sources qui est generalement situe dans les vallees entramant des distances importantes a
parcourir par rapport au service foumi par les bomes-fontaines.
Redynamisation des RCE
15.    Suite a la crise d'octobre 1993, bon nombre de Regies Communales de l'eau (RCE) ont ete
dissoutes, le bureau de la RCE (structure) n'etant plus en place, les batiments d'exploitation ont e, soit
occupes par l'administration communale, soit detruits par le vandalisme genere par la crise d'octobre 1993.
Aussi, lors du demarrage des travaux dans les differentes provinces, c'etait pratiquement une reprise au
- 25 -



debut.
16.    Actuellement, dans 1'ensemble des neuf provinces oui le Projet a fait des realisations, les RCE ont
et mises en place, leur fonctionnement est satisfaisant. Le constat est que dans les provinces ou l'on
dispose d'un encadreur provincial, la situation est meilleure, le taux de collecte des redevances est assez
eleve (cf. cas des provinces de Makamba et de Karuzi) et on enregistre de nouveaux investissements
finances par les RCE. Pour les autres provinces, malgre la relance des RCE, on note le besoin d'un
encadrement pour une plus grande periode (deux ans, par exemple).
17.    Par ailleurs, la dotation des RCE d'une personnalite juridique est plus qu'une necessite, car on a
observe le poids de la tutelle de l'autorite administrative communale ainsi que la non-poursuite des
detourneurs des fonds en provenance des redevances-Eau. D'une maniere generale, on note l'imperieuse
necessite de la mise en place des RCE dans toutes les communes du pays, en vue de perenniser les actions
realisees en matiere d'alimentation en eau potable. C'est pour cela que le Gouvernement du Burundi va
poursuivre cette action de mise en place et / ou de relance des RCE ainsi que leur encadrement sur tout le
territoire national.
Cellule du projet
18.    Les requisitions des moyens logistiques du Projet (vehicules) par differents intervenants exterieurs
ont eu une influence sur le rythme d'execution du Projet ; cette situation a perturbe le suivi sur terrain de la
supervision des travaux et des RCE.
19.    Concemant la structure de la cellule du Projet, pour l'avenir, la cellule du projet devrait etre
autonome et dotee d'un personnel complet sans devoir recourir aux autres departements techniques.
Rsforme de la Regideso
20.    La Reforme de la Regideso a e  entamee avec le Cr&dit IDA 2230-BU. Cette action n'a pas ete
achevee, elle s'est poursuivie avec les fonds du Credit IDA 2288-BU et le don IDF TF 0273250.
L'aboutissement de cette activite risque d'etre freine par le contexte socio-economique qui ne favorise pas
encore suffisamment l'interet de beaucoup d'investisseurs etrangers a s'installer dans le pays.
D. RELATIONS AVEC L'IDA
21.    Les relations entre l'Emprunteur et l'IDA ont ete d'une maniere generale jugees satisfaisantes. La
Mission Residente de la Banque a joue un role appreciable pour l'execution du Projet. Signalons toutefois
que:
a) Avec la crise d'octobre 1993 ; le projet a connu plusieurs changements au niveau du Chef de
Projet ayant en charge le suivi du Projet.
b) Le nombre de missions de supervision a diminue suite a la crise et a 1'embargo qu'a connu le
pays.
c) Le delai pour l'obtention de la non-objection devrait etre plus court.
d) Pour le service des decaissements ; suite aux depenses ineligibles qui ont e enregistr&es en
1997; le remboursement de ces depenses n'a pas ete percu directement par ce service; ce qui a
occasionne parfois des blocages dans le fonctionnement du Projet. En dehors de ce cas, les
delais pour l'approbation des depenses et de reapprovisionnement des comptes sont
acceptables.
- 26 -



E. DISPOSITIONS POUR LA PHASE OPERATIONNELLE
22.    Dans le cadre du PSAE, 66 RCE ont et relancees et / ou mises en place; elles disposent d'une
structure (President, Vice-President, Tresorier et Tr6sorier - Adjoint). Le service Assistance aux RCE de la
DGHER est invite a suivre l'encadrement des RCE lors de l'etablissement des budgets annuels, assurer le
contr6le de la comptabilite; le contr6le technique de la qualite des infrastructures hydrauliques en vue
d'assurer la maintenance et la rehabilitation en cas de necessite.
23.    En vue de perenniser ces actions, le Gouvemement est en train de doter les differentes provinces
d'un encadreur provincial des RCE avec le concours de certains bailleurs de fonds et ONGs ceuvrant dans
le secteur de l'eau (UNICEF, Belgique, C.I.S.V, etc ...). Les missions confiees a l'encadreur des RCE sont
entre autres: appuyer techniquement le bureau de la RCE, aider les RCE dans la sensibilisation pour
l'utilisation de l'eau potable, F'hygiene en general, le recouvrement des redevances Eau, la confection des
budgets (frais de fonctionnement, investissements, etc...) ainsi que la maintenance des infrastructures
hydrauliques realisees. La couverture nationale devrait etre assuree d'ici la fm de l'annee 2002.
24.    Sur le plan juridique, les RCE seront erigees en ASBL avec un statut juridique et un reglement
d'ordre interieur ; ceci permettra aux RCE de poursuivre en justice entre autres les detourneurs de fonds et
de chercher des financements aupres des bailleurs de fonds potentiels. Le calendrier previsionnel est de
couvrir 80 % du pays A la fin de l'annee 2002 et d'atteindre 100 % A la fin de l'annee 2003 ; car en dehors
du p&rimetre couvert par le PSAE, il existe bon nombre de communes sans RCE.
F. COMMENTAIRE GENERAL
25.    D'une maniere generale, la Banque Mondiale, la cellule du Projet et le Gouvemement du Burundi
ont travaille dans un climat de collaboration totale malgre la conjoncture qui a prevalu dans le pays de
l'Emprunteur.
26.    Le Gouvemement du Burundi souhaiterait poursuivre le programme d'alimentation en eau potable
avec la Banque Mondiale, ce qui contribuerait A la perennite des realisations du projet qui s'acheve et aussi
de mettre en valeur les etudes d'execution disponibles qui ont ete financees notarmment par les fonds du
Credit IDA 2288-BU.
- 27 -



ANNEXE
REALISATIONS PHYSIQUES DU PROJET APRES LA RESTRUCTURATION
ONG                               Province             Objectifs        Realisations au 30
juin 2001
TSF                               Gitega
Sources amdnag&es                                                                       500                   509
Plans hydrauliques Communaux                                                             10                    11
Fontainiers form6s                                                                       30                    32
Animateurs Communaux                                                                     20                    22
Regies Communales                                                                       I10                    11
TSF                              Muyinga
Sources amrnnagees                                                                       50                   517
Plans hydrauliques Communaux                                                                                    7
Fontainiers formrs                                                                        21                   20
Animateurs Communaux                                                                      1                    14
Regies Communales                                                                          _                    7
CEPBU                              Kayanza
Sources amenagees                                                                        50                   512
Plans hydrauliques Communaux                                                                                    9
Fontainiers formrs                                                                        2                    24
Animateurs Communaux                                                                      I                    IS
Regies Communales                                                                                               9
CEPBU                             Makamba
Sources amenag6es                                                                        70                   700
Plans hydrauliques Communaux                                                                                    6
Fontainiers formes                                                                        1                    41
Animateurs Communaux                                                                      12                   1 
Regies Communales                                                                          6                    6
CISV                               Karuzi
Sources amenagees                                                                        70                   701
Plans hydrauliques Communaux
Fontainiers fornm6s
Animateurs Communaux1
Regies Communales                                                                          7                    7
CARE                                Ngozi
Sources amenagees                                                                        50                   50
Plans hydrauliques Communaux
Fontainiers formes                                                                        2                    2
Animateurs Communaux                                                                      1 |                  I
Regies Communales
DHR                               Cibitoke
Sources amenagees                                                                        30                   300,
Plans hydrauliques Communaux x                                                                                  6
Fontainiers formms
Animateurs Communaux
Regies Communales                                                                                                6
DHR                            Muramvya &
Sources amenagees                                        Mwaro                           60                   60
Plans hydrauliques Communaux                                                              11
Fontainiers formes                                                                        33                   33
Animateurs Communaux                                                                      2                    22
Regies Communales                                                                         II                   11
TOTAL
Sources amenag6es                                                                     4 300                 4 339
Plans hydrauliques Communaux                                                             65                    66
Fontainiers formrs                                                                      192                   213
Animnateurs Communaux                                                                   130                   132
Regies Communales                                                                        65                    66
- 28 -



