Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2288 BU
(Water Supply Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 7, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2288 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated May 21, 1991 from the 
Borrower describing a series of actions designed to achieve certain policy objectives 
in the Borrower's water supply sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of Belgium acting 
through its Agence Generale de Cooperation pour le Developpement (Belgium) a grant to 
assist in financing Part 1 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Belgium;
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Federal Republic of Germany, 
acting through its executing agency Kreditanstalt fcr Wiederaufbau, a grant to assist 
in financing Part 1 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federal Republic of Germany;
(E)
on July 7, 1989, the Borrower and the Regie de Production et de 
Distribution d'Eau, et d'Electricite (REGIDESO) entered into a performance contract 
(the Performance Contract) for
the period 1989-1994 setting forth respective obligations for the Borrower and 
REGIDESO in the management of the electricity and water sub-sectors; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MDR" means Ministcre du Developpement Rural, the Borrower's ministry in 
charge of rural development;
(b)
"MEM" means Ministcre de l'Energie et des Mines, the Borrower's ministry 
in charge of energy and mining;
(c)
"DGHER" means Direction Generale de l'Hydraulique et des Energies 
Rurales, the directorate of water and rural energy in MDR;
(d)
"REGIDESO" means Regie de Production et de Distribution d'Eau et 
d'Electricite, an enterprise wholly owned by the Borrower and created by the 
Borrower's Decree - Law No. 1/196 of October 2, 1968 and entrusted by the Borrower's 
Decree No. 100/12 of March 11, 1986 to, among other things, supply water in the urban 
centers of the Borrower's territory;
(e)
"PAEMR Project Unit" means the unit established by the Borrower in DGHER 
pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the development credit agreement dated 
October 11, 1985 between the
Borrower and the Association for the Rural Water Supply Project and to be maintained 
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement for the purposes of 
carrying out the Project;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement; and
(h)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the advance granted by the 
Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 8, 1991 
and March 29, 1991 between the
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-four million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
24,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a banking institution acceptable to the 
Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2002 and ending July 15, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2011 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
Page  4
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project through MDR and MEM with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
for the purposes of carrying out the Project, maintain the PAEMR Project 
Unit in DGHER for the duration of the execution of the Project with staff, 
organization and functions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
for the purposes of coordinating and supervising the execution of the 
Project, establish and cause to be convened at least once every three months during 
Project execution a committee, (the Steering Committee) comprised of representatives 
of MDR, MEM, DGHER and REGIDESO and chaired by a representative of MDR.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time and 
in any case not later than November 30 in each year during Project implementation 
exchange views on the Borrower's public investment and current expenditure programs 
for its water supply sector, and DGHER's proposed budgets for the following fiscal 
year.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and in any case not later than October 31 in each year, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the  Association: (i) a draft three-year public investment and 
current expenditure program for its water supply sector for the period commencing on 
the following January 1; and (ii) DGHER's draft budget
for the following fiscal year.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain in Francs Burundi (FBu) in the name of the PAEMR 
Page  5
Project Unit an account (the Project Account) in a bank acceptable to the Association 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount in FBu equivalent to 
four hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($450,000);
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account not later than March 31, June 
30, September 30, and December 31 in each year during Project implementation, the 
amount necessary to replenish the Project Account to the initial amount referred to in 
the preceding sub-paragraph; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to 
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures 
made or to be made in respect of the reasonably cost of goods and services for the 
Project and not financed or to be financed by the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
a communal water authority has been established in each commune before 
commencing any works under the Project in such commune; and
(b)
each commune shall contribute, in labor or in cash, at least 5% of the 
total cost of any works performed in such commune, excluding the cost of pipe supply.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower and the Association shall, not later than December 
31, 1994 jointly undertake a mid-term review of the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1993, formalize the financial 
and institutional arrangements for rural water supply in a manner acceptable to the 
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and, without prejudice to 
the foregoing, shall  maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of DGHER, 
including separate accounts for its water operations and separate accounts for its 
electricity operations.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, but in any event by October 31 in each year, exchange views 
with regard to the
Borrower's water pricing policies for urban tariffs and for rural charges and its 
plans in respect of the overall development of the water sector.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause all charges for rural water supply to be 
set at levels sufficient to cover operation, maintenance and renewal costs.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause all revenues from its water supply sector 
to be deposited into separate accounts and shall ensure that payments from such 
accounts shall be made solely for expenses related to water supply services.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the water accounts of communal 
water authorities shall be verified annually by controllers acceptable to the Borrower 
and the Association, and shall make the verification reports available to the 
Association for its review.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, that is that the implementation of the 
Program shall have been suspended or terminated or shall have materially deviated from 
such Program as defined in paragraph (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established the committee referred to in Section 3.03 
(b) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited therein 
the initial amount referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed a project adviser, a specialist in community 
relations and a maintenance engineer, to assist the PAEMR Project Unit; and
(d)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the audit reports for 
DGHER's accounts for the fiscal years commencing January 1, 1989 and January 1, 1990.
Page  7
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the minister 
in charge of MDR of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministcre de Developpement Rural
B.P. 2740
Bujumbura, Burundi
Telex:
257224678
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Julien Kavakure
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Katherine Marshall
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment:                                 100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
     (a) pipes for             3,100,000        and of local
         civil works                            expenditures for
         in Karuzi and                          items procured
         Kayanza                                ex-factory and
                                                80% of other
     (b) pipes for civil       1,800,000        local expen-
         works in Gitega                        tures
         and Muramvya
     (c) equipment,              300,000
         excluding
         pipes, under
         Part 1 of
         the Project
(2)  Civil works:                               90%
     (a) under Part 1          4,500,000
         of the Project
         in Karuzi and
         Kayanza
     (b) under Part 1          3,800,000
         of the Project
         for Gitega
         and Muramvya
         and under Part 2
         of the Project
(3)  Consultants'              3,500,000        100%
     services and
     studies
(4) Training                     300,000        100%
(5) Operating                    600,000        70% of expenses
    costs                         incurred up to
                                                December 31,
                                                1993; 50% of
                                                expenses
                                                incurred in
                                                1995; 30% of
                                                expenses
                                                incurred in
                                                1997; 10% of
                                                expenses
                                                incurred in 1998
                                                and thereafter
(6)  Refunding of                700,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               5,600,000
Page  9
                              __________
         TOTAL                24,200,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the operating costs of the PAEMR Project 
Unit in respect of rent and office maintenance, vehicle maintenance and fuel, local 
field travel, equipment
maintenance and supplies and local personnel salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (a) until and 
unless the Borrower has transferred ownership and control of all water systems located 
in rural areas to the appropriate communes, except in the cases agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the living conditions of the 
population by improving the quantity and quality of potable water; (b) to implement a 
policy of cost recovery for
water services in rural areas and in urban areas; (c) to increase local responsibility 
for maintaining water supply facilities; (d) to strengthen the institutions of the 
Borrower responsible  for water supply; and (e) to develop and implement appropriate 
institutional arrangements in the water supply sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
1.
Construction of new rural water supply systems in the provinces of Ngozi, 
Muyinga, Karuzi, Kayanza, Cibitoke, Bubanza, Makamba, Gitega and Muramvya.
2.
Development and protection of about 3,000 springs in the said nine provinces.
 
3.
Institution Building:
 
(a)
Strengthening including carrying out a reorganization study of DGHER, 
acquisition of equipment and staff training.
(b)
Strengthening of PAEMR Project Unit, acquisition of equipment and staff 
training.
(c)
Training of communal water board staff and of water supply attendants.
 
4.
Carrying out a sensitization campaign aimed at the rural population on issues of 
water use and cost recovery.
5.
Carrying out of studies for updating of urban water tariffs and development of a 
master plan for water supply in Bujumbura.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Burundi may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works, light vehicles and office equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000 in 
respect of light vehicles and office equipment and to $700,000 in respect of works may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.
Office equipment, furniture and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, may be 
procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
Civil works under Part 2 of the Project up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,600,000 shall be performed by UNICEF and by specialized and qualified 
Non-Government Organizations selected
according to criteria acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part 2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, and to each contract for equipment estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
Page  11
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in  accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
Page  12
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  13
