FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 70a-ET
APPRAISAL OF
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
April 24, 1973
Eastern Africa Projects Department
!kgriculture Projects Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CULM,NCY EQUIVATENTS
US*1                =     Ethiopian dollars (Eth$) 2.07
Eth$1                     us$o.48
Eth$1 million        =     TJS$482,539
'WEIGHTS AND MEASBRES
(Metric System)
I millimeter (mm)                           0.039 inches
1 meter (mi)                                3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                         10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                          35.35 cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3 per sec)       35.35 cubic feet per second
. million cubic meters (tm3)                810.7 acre feet
1 liter per second (I per sec)              0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilometer (km)                            0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)                    0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                              2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                             2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                        2,205 pounds
ABBBEVIATIO.TS
AVit    -  Awash Valley Authority
EET.?A  - Ethiopian Electric  Light and Power Authority
SRwJSC  - Victoria State Rivers and Water Supply Commission
AIDB   - Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank of Ethiopia
lMtPITRIAT G'!VJI?ENT 0OT' ETHIOPIA
FISCA.L YEAR
July 8 to July 7



ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................. .   i-iii
1.  INTRODUCTION ........................................  1
II.  BACKGROUND ......        ..............  .............   ,.    3
Land Use .....................................   4
Agricultural Production    ..........................   4
Priorities and Pattern of Development   ............  4
Agricultural Inputs and Services ............ .....  5
III.  THE PROJECT AREA . ..................         ...... ......  5
General ...................................          5
Climate   ............................... .. .... .   5
Soils, Topography and Drainage  ..................   6
Population ............                                  6
ogriculture ................................   7
Transportation ................................  7
IV. THE PROJECT..7
Description.                      .        . ....   7
Proposed  Works   ..............  ... ...... .        8
Water Supply, Demand and Quality                      9
Water Rights ......    . . . ... ........ . .  10
Engineering Design         ...11
Cost Estimates..                        . . i.......  11
Financing ................................... . ..   12
Procurement ....................................  12
Disbursement ....... .... 0.0.0......... ...... .......  13
Accounts and Audit .......... .....................  13
Environment and Health ...........................  14
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGENENT .......1...................  15
Implementation of Project Works    ..................  15
Consultants' Services ...      .....................  17
Operation and Maintenance ....   ....................  18
Recovery of Costs .. .............  ..... * ..... . . .   19
Supporting Agricultural Services       ..........    21
Credit ..............        .................  22
Land Leases     .     ....... * .. ......   22
This report is based on the findings of two appraisal missions (in 1969
and 1971 respectively) and a follow-up mission. The 1971 appraisal mission
consisted of Messrs. H. Adler, M.D. ffrench-Mullen, A.A. Meimaris and T. Husain
of the Bank and Mr. D.E. Campbell of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The
follow-up mission, in December 1972, consisted of Messrs,. M.J. Walden, Y. Pret
and E.M. Sicely of the Bank and Mr. J.L. Robertson (consuiltant).



Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARMERS'
INCOME  ..............................................  23
Production ...................................... &  23
Market Prospects and Prices ............... .......  23
Farmers'  Income  ........ ................ .....  .*.. .  24
Government Revenues ............... ................  25
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................. ....      25
Economic  Benefits  ................................  25
Employment        .....................................   26
Income Distribution .... ......           ....... .   26
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS *       ........................ ...... .......  26
ANNEXES
1.  Soils
2.  Project Works
3.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.  Investigations and Studies
5.  Cost Estimates
6.  AVA Project Cash Flow
7.  List of Equipment
8.  Expenditure and Disbursement Schedules.
9.  Organization and Management
10.  Consultants' Services
11.  Operation and Maintenance Costs
12.  Financial Analysis
13.  Market Prospects and Prices
14.  Economic Analysis
CHARTS
Number 7412 Construction Schedule
Number 7413 Existing AVA Organization
Number 7414 Proposed AVA Organization
Number 7411 Proposed AVA Functional Organization
MAPS
Number 2828 Ri Upper and Middle Awash Valley
Number 10313   The Project



ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Third Plan (1968-74) aims at increasing production of domestic
and export crops through the development of peasant farming as well as large
scale mechanized commercial farms, and at building up a cadre of trained and
experienced personnel to facilitate further agricultural development. Although
over the country as a whole there is only about 0.4 ha of cultivated land per
person, extensive tracts of potentially arable lands stand virtually empty in
the Awash Valley, used mostly as grazing grounds for about six months a year
by nomadic herds. Some development has been carried out in the upper and
middle valley (26,000 ha) and in the lower valley (10,000 ha) by commercial
enterprises, but some 170,000 ha remain unexploited, a major constraint
being the lack of adequate irrigation water. Government has therefore
requested IDA assistance in financing an irrigation project in the middle
Awash River Valley to bring a part of this area into production.
ii.       Bank/IDA lending in the agricultural sector totals US$21.6 million
equivalent and includes two loans and six credits. The two loans, totaling
US$4 million, were made in 1950 and 1961 to the Development Bank of Ethiopia
for agricultural and industrial credit and have been repaid. Two credits were
made in 1969 and 1970 for the Wolamo Agricultural Development Project (US$3.5
million) and for the Humera Agricultural Development Project (US$3.1 million)
respectively; progress on both credits is satisfactory. One credit was granted
in 1971 for the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project (US$4.4 million),
two in 1972 for the Coffee Processing Project (US$6.3 million) and for the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (US$11 million) of which US$5.3
million is for credit to agriculture, and one was signed in April 1973 for
the Second Livestock Development Project (US$5 million).
iii.      The proposed project would develop 10,000 ha net in the Middle Awash
Valley and would include:
(a)  a diversion weir on the Awash River;
(b)  irrigation, drainage and flood protection works to serve
10,000 ha of which 7,500 ha are presently undeveloped;
(c)  on-farm development works and roads;
(d)  service buildings and housing; and
(e)  procurement of operation and maintenance equipiment and
farm machinery.



- ii -
Construction would be phased over five years. Under the project, a consult-
ing firm would be employed to carry out additional investigations and pre-
pare final designs, supervise construction, and provide technical assistance
in operation and maintenance. It would also undertake a feasibility study
for a second-stage project.
iv.       Of the 10,000 ha of developed land, about 7,600 ha would be leased
as about 34 commercial farms, and 2,000 ha would be used for a pilot land set-
tlement scheme to be occupied eventually by 800 Afar families, nomadic pas-
toralists who presently graze their herds in the area.  The remaining 400
ha would be occupied by the Melka Warer Agricultural Research Station.
v.        Estimated total project cost is US$22.8 million, with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$13.7 million, or 60% of the total. The pro-
posed IDA credit of US$17 million would finance 75% of total project costs,
including all the foreign exchange cost and US$3.3 million of local costs.
Remaining local costs of about US$6.0 million equivalent would be provided by
Government through budget appropriations.
vi.       Contracts totalling about US$17.6 million for civil works, on-
farm development works and purchase of equipment would be awarded following
international competitive bidding. Foreign exchange costs have been estimated
in the expectation that foreign contractors would be the successful bid4ers.
Contracts for bush clearing and for the construction of buildings and a 10-kIm
link road, costing about US$1.6 million which would be needed before award of
the main civil works contract, would be put to local tender. Rough levelling
(about US$150,000) would either be put to local tender or done by force account.
The remaining costs, US$3.4 million, would be for consultants and engineering
and supervision.
vii.      The Awash Valley Authority (AVA), a government authority set up in
1962 to administer and develop the natural resources of the Awash River Basin,
would be responsible for implementing the project. Shortage of qualified
local staff experienced in project construction would necessitate the employ-
ment of a consulting firm to construct and manage the project and to train
countfrpart staff to take over the project.
viii.     At full development, the project would increase annual seed cotton
production by about 22,800 tons. Assuming that only cotton would be produced,
the economic return would be 16%. At full development, the annual net foreign
exchange savings are estimated at US$5.7 million. The project is estimated to
create regular employment for 2,000 workers and seasonal employment (3 months
per year) for about 7,000 workers.
ix.       The revenues from the proposed charges would be sufficient to recover
all project costs at 7%. If the opportunity cost of capital were assumed to
be 10%, at a 10% discount rate the present value of revenues would cover 79%
of the present value of costs, with an implied subsidy of Eth$7.1 million
(US$3.5 million). The beneficiaries of this subsidy would be mainly the
Afar settlers.



- iii -
x.        The project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$17 million.
The borrower would be the Imperial Ethiopian Government, who would channel
the proceeds of the credit to AVA.






ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Imperial Ethiopian Government has requested an IDA credit of
US$17 million t:o assist in the development of irrigated agriculture in the
Amibara Plain in the middle Awash River Valley, some 175 km east of Addis
Ababa. The project is given high priority in Ethiopia's Thnird Development
Plan (1968-74). It would make a significant contribution towards meeting
the Government's objectives to increase production of crops for domestic
consumption, including import substitution, and to build up a cadre of
trained, experienced personnel for further development of irrigation.
1.02      This would be the first irrigation project to be carried out by the
Government and the ninth Bank Group lending for agricultural development in
Ethiopia. Previous lending included two fully repaid Bank loans for agricul-
tural and industrial credit, totalling US$4.0 million, made in 1951 and 1961
to the Development Bank of Ethiopia and six credits, which are as follows:
(a)  Credit 169-ET (November 1969, US$3.5 million).  The Wolamo
Agricultural Development Project is intended to improve both
yields and quality of maize, wheat and livestock produced by
7,750 families in the Wolamo sub-province. In the highland
area of the sub-province, about 6,000 farm families are re-
ceiving the benefits arising from improved roads, markets,
agricultural credit, and extension services. Progress on
this project is good, particularly in regard to the devel-
opment of cooperatives.
(b)  Credit 188-ET (May 1970, US$3.1 million).  The Humera
Agricultural Development Project aims at assisting farmers
in the Humera region and promoting further development by
constructing 120 km of all-weather road and bridging the
Tekkezi river, by providing a water supply for the township
of Humera and by establishing a demonstration farm, and
by providing a feasibility study for the next stage of
development in the region. Progress on this project is
satisfactory and the feasibility study to prepare a FY 1974
project is proceeding well.
(c)  Credit 269-ET (August 1971, US$4.4 million).  The Addis Ababa
Dairy Development Project aims at increasing dairy production
in the Addis Ababa area by providing loans to farmers for the
development of 240 small and 110 medium sized dairy farms and
for the development of 6 ranches for breeding dairy cattle,
together with expansion of facilities for milk collecting,



-2-
processing, and marketing, and the provision of the necessary
technical services. This project could not be made effective
until May 1972 due to delays in recruiting personnel for key
posts but since then progress has been satisfactory.
(d) Credit 290-ET (March 1972, US$6.3 million). The Coffee
Processing Project is expected to convert about 11,000
metric tons of coffee exports per year from an umnashed to
a washed state thereby increasing Ethiopia's foreign ex-
change earnings by about US$2.6 million annually. The
project's beneficiaries include 33,000 farm families whose
incomes are expected to increase by 10 to 15%.
(e) Credit 304-ET (May 1972, US$11 million). The Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank Project is intended to cover
the import portion of AIDB commitments for medium and long
term financing for a period of about one and a half years
ending December 1973. The credit provides US$5.5 million
for industrial sub-projects and US$5.3 million for agricul-
tural sub-projects.
(f)  Credit 365-ET (April 1973, US$5 million).  The Second Live-
stock Development Project is intended to provide integrated
market and stockroute systems in three important livestock
producing areas, slaughter facilities throughout the country,
trucking services to connect cattle producing areas with
consumer areas, and funds for the preparation of future live-
stock projects. The credit is not yet effective.
1.03      A United Nations Development Program (UNDP) study of the Awash River
Basin, carried out from 1961-1964, recommended the Melka Sadi and Amibara areas
for early irrigation development.  Such development was an important considera-
tion in the appraisal of the Awash-Tendaho highway - a major element of the
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 523-ET and Credit 111-ET; 1968) - and Government
therefore undertook to have an irrigation project for these areas ready for
appraisal by the end of 1969. Preparation work was entrusted to the Awash
Valley Authority (AVA), a Government public authority which was created in
1962 to administer and develop the natural resources of the Awash River Basin.
In 1968 AVA retained consultants (Italconsult, Italy) to carry out the feasi-
bility study which was completed in 1969.
1.04      The Melka Sadi area of about 4,600 ha net, which lies immediately
upstream of the Amibara Plain, has been leased by AVA to the Melka Sadi Agri-
cultural Estate Company S.C. (I{AESCO) a private company with participation by
the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank. IDA has agreed (January 1973)
to finance the 1,000-ha first stage of irrigated development of this area as
a sub-project under Credit 304-ET. MAESCO have commenced planting bananas on
the concession and intend to begin exporting fruit by end 1973.



- 3 -
1.05      A project to develop -,.he Melka Sadi and Amibara areas jointly was
first appraised by an IDA mission in October 1969. Howev,er, several important
issues were raised concerning cropping patterns, soils an,d drainage, and
further studies were required. The studies were carried out by AVA and its
consultants and confirmed the area's suitability for irrigation development.
Upon their completion, a new IDA mission, consisting of Messrs. TH. A. Adler,
M. D. ffrench-Mullen, A. A. Meimaris, and T. Husain, assisted by Mr. D. E.
Campbell of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, re-appraised the joint project
in October 1971. However in 1972 the Government requested IDA to consider
restricting the development under the proposed project to the Amibara area
alone. As a result a follow-up mission, consisting of Messrs. M.J. Walden,
Y. Pret and E.M. Sicely and J.L. Robertson (consultant) visited Ethiopia in
December 1972 for further discussions. This report is based on documents
submitted by AVA, the feasibility studies, and the findings of the appraisal
and follow-up missions.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Ethiopia, covering an area of about 1.2 milliorn km 2, is the tenth
largest country in Africa. Most of it consists of the hills and high
plateau of the Ethiopian massif, which rises to a maximum of 4,620 m. To
the west, the massif falls away to the foothills and clay plains along
the frontier with the Sudan while, to the east, it drops abruptly into the
desert along the Red Sea and the Somalia border. Although Ethiopia lies
within the tropics (4° to 17° N), the differences in altitude provide a
wide range of ecological conditions.
2.02      Ethiopia has a population of some 25 million, which is growing at
approximately 2.5% per annum. Agriculture contributes about 60% of GDP and
provides a livelihood for 90% of the population. The total urban population
is about 2.2 million, with the capital, Addis Ababa (850,000), and Asmara
(230,000) accounting for almost half. About 85% of the people live in the
highlands at altitudes of 1,400 to 3,000 m; at higher alititudes, the climate
is not suitable for subsistence crops and below 1,400 m, malaria is endemic.
In the arid lowlands, below 900 m, where crops can be grown only with irri-
gation, the heat and lack of irrigation have discouraged all but nomadic
populations, whereas in the highlands, population density can exceed 210
per km2. There is only about 0.4 ha of cultivated land lper person in the
country as a whole but in the Awash Valley extensive tracts of potentially
arable land stand virtually empty. These areas are overgrazed by nomadic
herds that traverse them for six months of the year and, consequently, are
ravaged by wind and water erosion. With the development of irrigation, the
Awash Valley could become a major source of commercial crops, cereals, fruits,
and vegetables. The development of irrigated agriculture in the Awash Valley
is supported by the Bank's 1971 agricultural sector mission to Ethiopia.



-4-
Land Use
2.03      Currently, about 11%.' of the land area of Ethiopia is under cultiva-
tion, 52% is used for grazing, 11% is under swamps and forests, and the bal-
ance (26%) is considered unsuitable for crop and/or livestock production.
Although agricultural land provides about 2.5 ha for each of the estimated
4 million farm families, about 90% of them cultivate less than 2 ha and are
not vet part of the monetary economy. Half the total area under crops is
in the intensively cultivated Central Highlands, farmed mostly by subsistence
farmers. Recently, however, commercial farming has emerged in the less densely
settled areas of the highlands, in the Rift Valley and in the uninhabited
plains of the northwest. Together with a few large estates owned mainly by
foreign concessionaires, this commercial farming activity is producing most
of the marketable crop surpluses, except for coffee. The land tenure sys-
tem is complicated and uncertain and about half of the subsistence farmers
are tenants without security of tenure, many of them share-cropping.
Agricultural Production
2.04      During 1961-70, the value of agricultural production increased at
an average of 2% per annum which is less than population growth, while GDP
grew at 4.5%.  Arabica coffee is Ethiopia's most important crop, providing
about 58% (1970) of the country's total export earnings; other important
products are oilseeds and cakes (10%), hides and slins (10%), and cereals
and pulses (8%). The most important food crops are "teff" (an annual grass
whose seed is used to prepare unleavened bread), which accounts for about
18% of the total cropped area; barley (13%); and wheat and sorghum (each
about 10%). Until recently, Ethiopia was self-sufficient in staple foods
but since 1967 imports of food and live animals have averaged about Eth$ 21
million annually or about 5% of total imports. Domestic production of cot-
ton is inadequate to meet local demand and imports have increased from 2,700
tons in 1967 to 5,700 tons in 1970; the domestic demand for cotton is grow-
ing rapidly and there is substantial potential for import substitution.
Priorities and Pattern of Development
2.05      The Third Development Plan is giving priority to agricultural devel-
opment, aiming at a 2.9% annual growth in agriculture. In particular, it is
attempting to reduce Ethiopia's overwqhelming dependence on coffee for exports
and to diversify into other crops, some of which would replace existing im-
ports. Aside from aiming at increased production on small holdings, the plan
also calls for the development of large-scale commercial farming.
2.06      In small-scale farming, Government has so far concentrated its
efforts on a few intensive projects in high potential areas, such as the
Chilalo Project (1967) financed by the Swedish International Development
Authority and the Wolamo Project financed by IDA (169-ET; 1969). The results
of these projects and the impact of a fertilizer program sponsored by FAO have
been so encouraging that, in 1970, Government commenced a more widespread effort,
the "Minimum Paclcage Program", with a lower input cost per family and level



- 5 -
of infrastructure. This program is expected to reach ultimately some
600,000 small farmers by the mid-1980's. An IDA project, prepared with the
assistance of the Bank's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa, which covers
the second phase of this program, has been appraised and is currently being
processed.
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.07      The consumption of fertilizers in Ethiopia has been increasing
rapidly in recent years, increasing from 4,000 tons in 1968 to about 24,000
tons in 1971. Backed by research and multiplication programs, similar pro-
gress has been made in the use of improved seed, mainly wheat, barley and
maize, even though sales of such seeds - expected to be about 6,000 tons in
1971/72 - probably amount to only 5% of the total seeds used. Credit and
marketing services have lagged. The lack of trained personnel to organize
the distribution and use of inputs and the marketing of crops is still a
major constraint to further development, although a beginning has been made
under the second education project of 1971 (243-ET) to expand the training
of agricultural teclnicians.
2.08      Commercial farmers, less constrained by inadequate extension and
other services than traditional farmers, have been quick to realize the ad-
vantages of farm mechanization. With less than 3,000 tractors in the coun-
try, however, mechanization is still at an early stage.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area is located in the middle valley of the Awash
River, in the central part of eastern Ethiopia, about 175 km east of Addis
Ababa and about 50 km downstream from Awash Station (see Map 2828 R1). With
the exception of some 2,500 ha irrigated by pumping from the river, most of
the land is savannah or covered by scrub.  The Amibara Plain - about 10,000
ha net, located on the eastern bank of the river - has been selected for
development at this time (see lMap 10313). A second-stage development may
include the Bolhamo Plain on the western bank and the Angelele Plain down-
stream of Amibara, totalling about 10,000 ha.
Climate
3.02      The middle Awash Valley has a semi-arid climate, with an average
rainfall of 580 mm occurring in two seasons. The "short rains", unreliable
both in time and quantity, come in March/April, while the more reliable "long
rains" ffall from July to September and account for about: 50% of the annual
total. Mean monthly temperatures range from just under 220C in December/
January to 30°C in June.



-6-
Soils, Topography and Drainage
3.03      Soils are recent alluviums of considerable depth, with satisfactory
rates of infiltration and a water table at about 10 m. About one-half of the
soils consist of sandy loams to clay loams, with good permeability - Class I
soils - which are suitable for a wide range of annual and perennial crops.
The other half, consisting of loamy clays with restricted permeability - Class
II soils - are better suited for cotton and forage crops. Soil salinity and
alkalinity cause no problem under present conditions but could become critical
under irrigation without adequate provision for drainage. Topography of the
plains is generally flat, with slopes varying from 0.5 to 2%, and well adapted
to gravity irrigation. Additional soil information is presented in Annex 1.
Population
3.04      The population of the project area consists mainly of about 5,000
nomadic Afars (some 1,000 families) who occupy the area and its environs
for about six months of eaclh year and graze some 12,000 head of camels,
cattle, sheep and goats. A further 500 families with some 6,000 livestock
inhabit intermittently the adjoining Nielka Sadi area, now under development.
The remainder of the population consists of the labor force employed in
existing farming enterprises occupying about one-quarter of the area.
Land Utilization
3.05      Governraent policy calls for rapid land development and increased
production of export and import substitution crops. In line with this policy,
AVA has allocated land to the following uses up to the present time:
(a) Farming concessions - 1,300 ha.
(b)  Melka Warer Agricultural Research Station - 200 ha.
(c) AVA pilot land settlement area - 200 ha.
(d) AVA farm - 800 ha.
In all cases temporary pumping and irrigation systems have been installed.
3.06      The fanring concessions, occupied for the past three years under
letters of intent that are subject to conversion to lease agreements when
permanent irrigation facilities shall have been provided by AVA, are operated
by groups of Ethiopian agricultural graduates. They comprise two farms of
500 ha each (the partnerships consisting of three and four members, respectively)
and one farm of 300 ha, where the partnership consists of three members.
Settlement
3.07      Settlement of the Afar population presents great difficulties be-
cause of their total ignorance of farming and their reluctance to change
their nomadic way of life. However AVA has successfully undertaken a pilot
settlement scheme for 67 families on 2-1/2 ha holdings, with cultivation and



-7-
other supporting services provided by AVA. Settlement has been limited to
the Afar people because people from the Ethiopian highlands show little indi-
cation to settle in the harsh, arid Awash Valley amongst an alien nomadic
people. Traditionally the highlanders may work for concessionaires for
several months, unaccompanied by their families, before returning to their
homes with their accumulated wages.
3.08      Grazing land for the nomads displaced by development in the pro-
ject area is available in adjacent areas, mainly the Alledeghi Plain to the
east, where AVA is drilling new wells as year-round watering points. Until
these wells are functioning, AVA is keeping corridors open between farms,
so that the Afar herds have access to the Awash River.
Agriculture
3.09      The main crop being cultivated at present is cotton, the first
crons having been planted in the 1966/67 season. Despite the unreliability
of water supplies from the provisional irrigation works and crop damage
during the river's annual floods, seed cotton yields have reached an average
of 2.0 tons per ha. On limited areas cropped with maize, yields of over 3
tons per ha are being obtained. These yields are substantially below the
area's potential.
Transportation
3.10      The project area has good road and rail connections with the rest
of the country. An all-weather road runs to Addis Ababa. The Bank-financed
Awash-Tendaho highway, which lies about 5 km east of the area, is under
construction. The Addis Ababa - Djibouti railway also serves the area from
Awash Station, about 50 km away. Additionally, there are two earthen air-
strips, suitable for light aircraft, within the project area. However trans-
portation within the area is difficult, since there are flew service roads.
IV. TIE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The project would provide gravity irrigation by diversion from the
Awash River for about 10,000 ha of land, mostly undeveloped. It would in-
clude settlement of some 800 nomad families (^4,000 people) on 2,000 ha and
the purchase of operation and maintenance equipment, including vehicles,
and farm machinery for the settlement area. It would also include the
provision of watering points to open up new grazing lands for the remaining
inhabitants displaced from the project area by the irrigation development.
A consulting firm would be engaged by AVA, the implementing agency for the
project, to carry out additional investigations and studies, prepare final
designs, supervise construction and provide technical assistance for project



-8-
management, operation and maintenance and agricultural extension. It would
also conduct a feasibility study for a second-stage project.
Works to be implemented under the project (described in detail in
Annex 2) would include:
(a) a diversion weir on the Awash River;
(b) irrigation and drainage networks to serve 10,000 ha net;
(c) flood protection dykes;
(d) roads;
(e) on-farm development for 10,000 ha; and
(f) service buildings and housing.
All project works would be completed in five years with construction begin-
ning by mid-1973. A detailed construction schedule is given in Chart 7412.
Proposed Works
4.02      Diversion Weir.  The Melka Warer diversion weir on the Awash River
would consist of a low concrete structure, about 14 m high, fitted with crest
gates and incorporating a road bridge.
4.03      Irrigation System.  A main canal, 21 km long, would receive its
supply directly from the weir. Delivery to the irrigated area would be by
gravity through earth canals, including control and water measuring struc-
tures, turnouts and culverts. The capacity of the main canal has been so
designed as to serve ultimately the anticipated second-stage development of
the Bolhamo and Angelele Plains. Canal lining would be limited to very short
stretches over permeable soils. The distribution network would deliver water
to each block of about 64 ha.
4.04      Drainage Network.  Two main drains, 46 km in total length, and
an open drainage network would remove excess rain and irrigation water from
the area.  Field drains would be spaced at about 200 m to 400 m. Drainage
waters would be conveyed by gravity to the Cadda Billen swamp, beyond the
northern boundary of the Angelele area. This method of disposal would be
satisfactory as long as the Angelele area remains undeveloped. The consul-
tants would study the possibility of eventually returning the drainage ef-
fluent to the river as part of their Bolhamo-Angelele feasibility study.
4.05      On the basis of present knowledge of ground water levels and
soil permeability, it is likely that, after about five years from imple-
mentation of irrigation, tile drainage for water table control may have to
be installed. The design of main drains would take this into account. The



-9-
timing and area to be served by tile drains would be determined by drainage
investigations and water table monitoring initiated under the project (Annexes
2 and 4). The cost involved would be about US$3.3 million (at 1972 prices)
and it has been included in the economic analysis. The construction would
be spread over five years. If required, the cost could be included as part
of the second-stage project. However, assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that, should other sources of financing not become available, Gov-
ernment would bear the cost of future tile drainage requirements.
4.06      Flood Protection Dykes.  The project area is subject to annual flood-
ing. A 37-km western dyke, to be constructed along the river, would protect
the project area from flooding by the Awash River and its tributaries. An
eastern dyke of about 22 km, to be constructed along the escarpment, would
protect the project from run-off from the Alledeghi Plain.
4.07      Roads.  Approximately 100 km of principal roads, Including the link
road to the Awash-Tendaho highway, and 110 km of service roads along the main
canals and drains, would be constructed under the project. To ensure all-
weather transportation, these two types of roads would be gravel (scoria)
surfaced to widths of 5 and 4 m respectively. In addition, about 100 km of
unsurfaced tracks would be constructed as part of the tertiary irrigation
network.
4.08      On-farm Development.  On-farm works would include field canals and
drains, small structures, bush-clearing, stone-removal anld land-leveling.
Such works would be carried out mainly during the last three years of con-
struction. Some on-farm works have already been done, on about 2,500 ha, by
AVA, the research station, and the concessionaires. Most of these works,
however, would have to be adapted to the new irrigation layout.
4.09      Buildings and Housing.  The project would finance construction
of project headquarters, a workshop, stores and 23 staff houses and related
facilities for the project authority, the research station and the consultants.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.10      Water Supply.  The project area would obtain its water supply from
the Awash River system which has been partially regulated by the Koka Dam
and hydroelectric plant, which commenced operation in 1961, and by the Awash
II and Awash III dams and hydroelectric plants, constructed with the assis-
tance of Bank Loan 375-ET (1964). These dams, which are controlled by the
Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA), have increased the
dry season flows and reduced the intensity of floods. As a result several
irrigation projects, totalling about 26,000 ha, have been undertaken upstream
of the project area by private enterprise and quasi-governmental organizations
(see Map 2828 Ri).



- 10 -
4.11      On the basis of stream flowg records (1962-1968), it was found
that the Awash regulated flow would be adequate to meet the irrigation re-
quirements of the upstream schemes, the project area and the proposed second-
stage development, with only minor deficits in severe drought years, provided
that:
(a)  water diversion by all upstream users is properly
controlled by AVA, and not permitted to exceed its
present levels; and
(b)  EELPA agrees to continue to operate the Koka hydroelectric
plant so as to release, during periods of anticipated low
flow, discharges sufficient to meet irrigation requirements.
Over the past ten years, EELPA has cooperated fully with AVA in drought
periods to provide sufficient irrigation water for downstream users. This
cooperation is expected to continue, especially since the construction of
the Finchaa hydroelectric plant will give EELPA greater operating flexi-
bility. This plant, on the Finchaa River, 170 km northwest of Addis Ababa,
is expected to become fully operational in September 1973. AVA has commenced
negotiations to obtain EELPA's formal agreement on releases sufficient to
ensure that irrigation requirements are met the year round in future.  To
be able to quantify these requirements AVA has commenced to collect data on
the diversion needs of all irrigation users. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that AVA would complete the collection of these data
and within one year of the signing of the credit agreement would enter into
firm arrangements with EELPA, under which EELPA would release water from the
dam in accordance with diversion requirements, subject to the availability of
alternative generating capacity and to any physical limitation imposed by the
design of the Kokca Dam. Assurances were also obtained that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, Government would not permit river flows
at the Melka Warer weir to be depleted below the project's requirements by
new diversions.
4.12      Water Demand.  Irrigation water requirements have been calculated
and the results correlated with the experience gained from existing irrigation
systems in the area. Taking into account an overall efficiency of 56%, the
total diversion requirements per annum would be about 97 Mm3, or, on average,
9,700 m3 per ha of net arable land, for a cropping intensity of 130%.
4.13      Water Quality.  A comprehensive testing of water samples has
indicated that the quality of the anticipated water supply would be satis-
factory for sustained irrigation under conditions of adequate leaching and
drainage. Details of water supply, demand and water quality are presented
in Annex 3.
Water Rights
4.14      In its charter, AVA is given responsibility for administering all
water allocation and water rights in the Awash Valley and for controlling the



- 11 -
flow of water in the Awash River. However, the charter (para. 5.01) is so
written that water rights embodied in land leases issued prior to 1962 are
not subject to AVA's authority. Nevertheless, this is not a significant
constraint on AVA's overall water control since the exemption from AVA's
supervision applies only to one lessee - the HVA Wonji/Shoa estate which,
with 5,500 ha of sugar cane, diverts about 12% of the available flows. AVA
is demonstrating satisfactory progress towards quantifying and controll-
ing all other irrigation use.
Engineering Design
4.15      Preliminary designs based on field surveys have been completed
by Italconsult (Italy) for the weir, main canal, drains and river dyke.
Overall layout of the irrigation and drainage networks was plotted at
1:5,000 with 0.25 m contours, and on-farm works were designed for typical
topographical areas of the project. The engineering desiLgn was adequate
for appraisal, but additional geotechnical investigations, hydraulic model
tests and mapping would have to be carried out prior to final design (Annex 4).
During the final design stage AVA, assisted by the consultants, would review
the design criteria of the weir, the dykes and the surface drainage system,
ensuring also that full use was made of economically available construction
material and labor. Detailed recommendations are presented in Annex 2.
Cost Estimates
4.16      Overall project costs (excluding customs duties; and other taxes
levied on imports, totalling about US$0.1 million), are estimated at US$22.8
million. Estimates for civil works and on-farm works are based on construction
quantities presented in the feasibility study, as modified during appraisal.
Unit prices presented in the feasibility study were updated on the basis of
more recent information available in Ethiopia to bring them in line with 1972
costs, while equipment purchases have also been valued at 1972 CIF prices.
The expected effects of the February 1973 currency realignments upon the prices
of imported goods and services have also been taken into account.
4.17      The estimated foreign exchange component of the project, including
contingencies, is US$13.7 million or 60% of total project costs. This amount
was arrived at on the assumption that all equipment would be imported and
that civil works contracts would be awarded to foreign contractors (para
4.20). Project costs include a physical contingency averaging 15% on all
items, and price contingencies of 3% per annum on local costs and 6% per
annum on foreign costs. The price contingencies are based on experience
in recent years with cost increases for labor, materials, and services in
Ethiopia and for goods imported, mostly from the U.S. and Europe. Details
are given in Annex 5 and are summarized below:



- 12 -
(Eth$ million)            (US$ million)        Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
Civil Works           8.83   10.87   19.7      4.26    5.25    9.5         55
On-farm Development  3.18    3.32    6.3        1.54    1.51    3.0        50
Buildings             1.20    0.09    t.3 --.58    0.04    0.6             07
Equipment &
Vehicles            0.32    1.69    2.0      0.15    0.82    1.0         84
Consultants           1.57    5.48    6.7      0.76    2.49    3.3         77
Sub-Total       15.10   20.92   36.0      7.29   10.11   17.4         58
Contingencies
Physical            2.27    3.14    5.4      1.09    1.44    2.6         58
Price               1.54    4.31    5.9      0.76    2.07    2.8         74
TOTAL           18.91   28.37   47.3      9.14   13.70   22.8         60
Financing
4.18      The proposed IDA credit of US$17 million would finance about 75%
of the project cost. It would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost -
US$13.7 million - and US$3.3 million of local costs on construction contracts.
The balance of local costs - about US$6.0 million including duties and taxes -
would be met by Government through annual budget allocations to AVA. The
proceeds of the IDA credit would be channelled to AVA by Government, to be
recovered through AVA's annual budget surpluses at 7% annual interest, repay-
able over 50 years with eight years of grace on capital and interest, interest
being accumulated. About US$1.2 million of the Government's contribution to
project cost would be by grant to AVA and the remainder would be made avail-
able to AVA at nil interest repayable through AVA's annual budget surpluses
over 50 years with 12 years of grace. Government would also contribute a
further total amount of about US$1.9 million in grants to support AVA's
operating costs during the first 12 years of the project (see para. 5.03 and
Project Cash Flow, Annex 6). It would be a condition of effectiveness that
Government and AVA had signed a project financing agreement, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, covering these arrangements.
4.19      Retroactive financing of about US$0.3 million equivalent is proposed,
to meet any commitments entered into after March 1, 1973 for consultants'
services and investigations.
Procurement
4.20      All equipment and vehicles (estimated CIF cost about US$1.1 includ-
ing contingencies - Annex 7) and civil works contracts for the construction
of the irrigation systems, flood protection dykes, internal roads and on-farm



- 13 -
development (US$16.5 million including contingencies) would be tendered on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the guidelines
for procurement under IDA credits. Because of the isolation of the area and
the high costs of mobilization and camp installation and to achieve betLer
coordination during construction, all these civil works and on-farm works would
be grouped into a single contract. As there is no domestic civil engineering
contracting industry that could bid on any portion of these works, such a
grouping would not be discriminatory. Contracts for bush clearing and for
the construction of the link road to the Awash-Tendaho highway and of buildings
and houses (Annex 5), the total value of which would be about US$1.6 million
including contingencies, would be tendered locally, since these works would
have to be completed prior to award of the main contract and the amount in-
volved would not attract international competition. Procedures for local
bidding are satisfactory and there is sufficient competition for works of
this kind and size. It is likely that these locally-tendered contracts
would be awarded to international contractora already engaged in other work
in Ethiopia. Rough levelling (about US$150,000) which would also have to be
completed before award of the main contract, would be done either by contract
tendered locally or by AVA by force account. AVA, with the assistance of the
consultants, would be responsible for the preparation of all contract documents,
evaluation of bids and award of contracts. As far as international competitive
bidding is concerned, there are no preferential import duties in Ethiopia or
other discrimination that may affect international contractors or suppliers.
Disbursement
4.21      The proposed IDA credit of US$17 million would be disbursed in
six years against the CIF cost of imported equipment (US1.1 million), the
foreign cost of consulting services (US$2.5 million), and about 77% of the
cost of contracts for civil works and buildings. Any unused balance of the
credit would be cancelled. All disbursements for civil works would be made
against statements of work performed, certified by the consultants. Details
of annual expenditures on the project and a quarterly disbursement schedule
are presented in Annex 8.
Accounts and Audit
4.22      AVA is subject to annual audit by the Auditor-General, who is
responsible to Parliament. While these auditing arrangements are satis-
factory to IDA, they provide only a limited degree of management advisory
service. AVA has decided to appoint independent auditors in addition.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) separate accounts for the project would be established and
maintained in a manner satisfactory to IDA;
(b) these accounts would be audited annually by auditors accept-
able to IDA; and



- 14 -
(c) within six months of the close of the financial year, certified
copies of the audited financial staterments for thle project, and
the auditors' reports, both on the project accounts and on AVA's
general accounts, would be forwarded to IDA.
It is probable that AVA would appoint the same auditors to audit both its
general accounts and the project accounts.
Environment and Health
4.23      The environmental changes which would be induced by the project
would.have both positive and negative aspects. On the one hand, in an area
where malaria and schistosomiasis are endemic, the introduction of flood con-
trol, drainage and land levelling would substantially reduce swampy areas and
so decrease the present naturally-occurring breeding areas for the disease
vectors, mosquitoes and snails. On the other hand, although the design of
the irrigation and drainage systems would take account of the necessity to
create as far as possible a water environment unfavorable to the snail vec-
tors of schistosomiasis, these systems would be likely to become nev health
hazards because they would inevitably harbor these vectors unless preventive
control measures were undertaken. Furthermore, the migration of project labor
from the Ethiopian Highlands (where Schistosoma mansoni, the intestinaL form
of schistosomiasis, is endemic), would increase the rate of introduction of
this disease (already reported to be occurring) into the Awash Valley where
in the past only Schistosoma haematobium, the urinary form of the dise e ,
was known.
4.24      AVA is fully aware of the importance of adopting satisfactory
standards of environmental health from the inception of develop.,lunt and has
adopted a form of lease agreement with concessionaires (exemplified by its,
August 1971 lease of the Melka Sadi area to MAESCO) including pr'jvis2onb
establishing the responsibility of the lessee for the maintenance of these
standerds on his concession. According to this lease agreement, the lessee
would;  (a) provide, at his expense, housing accommodation and adequate medi-
cal, sanitary, training and recreational facilities for all persons perm-
-mently empl0yed by the lessee in conformance with any laws and regulations
:n force in Ethiopia; (b) comply with all laws and regulations pertaining
ac soti conservation, scil improvement, erosion, pest control and the in-
vest.ation, use, control, protection, management or administration of water
; f E zes ; (c) take, at his own expense, all reasonable steps necessary to
t,r.ent siltation and growth of aquatic weeds in artificial water courses
areas covered by impounded water, and the existence and spread of
'  carriers of diseases made possible by any works he constructs or activi-
ttes h& carries on; and (d) comply with any standards promulgated by AVA or
,ther government authority for the treatment of effluent to prevent pollution
,' the Awash River. These lease conditions are adequate to take care of health,
.';ani.tation and water pollution problems on concessions, as well as to cover
the ?ossible need for molluscicide application, once the requirements are
identifled and regulations promulgated.



- 15 -
4.25      Despite the attention given to health in the lease conditions,
early positive action to control the disease vectors has not so far been
envisaged, largely because the importance of preventing the introduction of
breeding colonies of snails into the new irrigation and drainage systems has
not been fully realized. The techniques and costs involved have not been
studied in sufficient detail to permit the inclusion of a control program
in the project. However, it is intended that the project consultants should
include a study of public health considerations in their feasibility study
for the second-stage Bolhamo and Angelele development. Since this study
would be completed about two years before first delivery of irrigation water
under the project, ample time would be available for recommendations arising
from the study to be implemented during the project construction period.
Assurances were obtained during credit negotiations that:
(a) the studies to be undertaken by the consultants would include
a study of schistosomiasis in relation to the project;
(b) except as AVA and IDA shall otherwise agree, AVA would
undertake reasonable control measures in accordance with
the recommendations of the consultants; and
(c) clauses on health and anti-pollution no less stringent
than the relevant clauses contained in the MAESCO lease
would be included in all future project leases.
4.26      Since the Melka Warer village is expected to develop with the
project, relevant government agencies would need to establish for it sani-
tation facilities, a domestic water supply and other services such as police
and education. Assurances were obtained during credit negotiations that
these utilities and services would be established for the Melka Warer village
and any other villages that may be developed in the project area.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation of Project Works
5.01      Project implementation would be the responsibility of AVA, a
public authority, which was set up in 1962 to administer and develop the
natural resources of the Awash River basin. AVA is also responsible under
its charter (Annex 9) for coordinating the activities of other government
agencies and of private enterprises concerned with the development of the
basin. It is governed by a Board of eight Commissioners, comprising repre-
sentatives of five ministries together with two appointed members and a
General Manager. The General Manager directs the work of a deputy and a
staff of about 22 professionals, including agriculturalists, economists
and engineers, and some 12 sub-professionals. AVA has carried out a general
survey of the Awash River basin; identified hydroelectric, irrigation and



- 16 -
livestock projects; and established a pilot settlement for Afars at Amibara
(para 3.05), as well as an extension service in the lower valley. It has
also leased some 36,000 ha to local and foreign investors. Details of AVA
organization and activities are presented in Annex 9.
5.02      Three major problems have plagued AVA since its creation - lack
of staff, inadequate funds and ineffective coordination with other government
agencies. The organization lacks experienced senior professional and tech-
nical staff and consequently has had to rely heavily on expatriate experts
and consultants. AVA is also dependent on government budgetary allocations
as its receipts from land leases are presently small. So far budgetary al-
locations for investment purposes have been limited mainly because of the
lack of sound development proposals for projects in the valley. Finally,
in spite of the composition of the Board, coordination with other agencies
is ineffective because representatives of key agencies often do not attend
meetings and are generally not of the level required to ensure effective
liaison. When AVA can actively undertake economic development in the Awash
Valley and produce results, the other agencies are expected to take a more
active interest in Board decisions and to participate therein.
5.03      In financial matters AVA operates essentially as a government de-
partment. In accordance with the terms of its charter, any portion of its
annual budget not covered by its own revenues is financed from the Govern-
ment budget and any surplus annual revenues not required for its own opera-
tions are turned over to the Central Treasury. In the light of these consid-
erations, Government has decided to make its contribution to AVA's project
costs as grants or interest-free loans (para. 4.18 and Annex 6). During
negotiations AVA agreed to send its financial projections covering itg
entire operations, including in particular its major investment plans, annual-
ly to the Association for review and comment.
5.04      A UNDP/FAO project, initiated in 1966 and expected to last through
1975, is assisting AVA to develop its technical capability and provide in-
service training of staff. Since 1970 FAO, by contract with the Victoria
State Rivers and Water Surply Commission (SRWSC) of Australia, has provided
foreign experts to strengthen AVA headquarters services and to assist in
carrying out studies. Even with this help, however, AVA does not have
sufficient experienced personnel to staff a project field office, which
would be necessary for efficient implementation of the project. Consequently,
consultants would be employed to assist AVA to construct and manage the proj-
ect di±ring the construction period and train Ethiopian staff, as well as
condulet a feasibility study for a second-stage project.



- 17 -
5.05      To meet the increased demands made upon it as its responsibilities
expand, the Authority's own organization requires to be strengthened. A
study by SRWSC has recommended changes (see Annex 9) which are currently
under consideration by AVA. Assurances were obtained during credit negotia-
tions that within two years of signing the credit agreement AVA would take
such measures as may be necessary, after consultation with IDA, to adopt a
revised organization.
Consultants' Services
5.06      It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that AVA had em-
ployed an experienced consulting firm acceptable to IDA, on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to IDA, to perform the following functions:
(a) carry out additional investigations and topographical
surveys, prepare detailed designs and tender documents for
civil work contracts and equipment purchases, and analyze
bids;
(b) staff a project field office with qualified experts under
a project manager to manage the project, supervise the
execution of all civil work contracts and on-farm develop-
ment, provide operation and maintenance and on--farm de-
velopment expertise, train counterpart Ethiopian personnel,
and certify applications for credit payments; and
(c) prepare a feasibility study for a second-stage project.
An outline of the consultants' terms of reference and manpower requiremenits
is given in Annex 10.
Staff and Training
5.07      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that AVA would appoint:
(a) a project executive director satisfactory to IDA;
(b)  a qualified and experienced person, satisfactory to IDA, as
counterpart to the project manager provided by the consultants,
within six months of the signing of the credit agreement; and
(c) counterparts to the members of the consultants' staff filling
the positions of senior agriculturalist, three senior engineers
and agricultural extension and training officer. The quali-
fications required and the responsibilities would be defined
in job descriptions to be sent to IDA for review not later than
three months after the signing of the credit agreement. AVA
would make the appointments upon receiving IDA's comments.



- 18 -
Operation and Maintenance
5.08      Since delivery of irrigation water to most of the project area
would commence in mid-1977, an operation and maintenance service would be
set up at the beginning of that year with the necessary equipment purchased
under the project. The consultants would be responsible for the operation
and maintenance service for the last year of the project and the training
of counterpart staff, provided by AVA, to take over upon completion of the
project. The operation and maintenance service would be responsible for
all works, dowm to and including the turnouts for the 64-ha irrigation units.
Concessionaires, settlement authorities and the research station would be
responsible for operation and maintenance below the turnouts.
5.09      Upon completion of the project, the estimated annual operation and
maintenance cost, including amortization of equipment, would be Eth$57,000
or about Etn$57 (US$25) per irrigated ha. Should the installation of tile
drains prove to be necessary, the annual cost from the eleventh year onward
would be increased by about Eth$7,000 per year. All costs are based on 1972
prices. Detailed operation and maintenance costs are shown in Annex 11.
Land Utilization
5.10      2,000 ha would be utilized for settlement of 800 Afar families on
2-1/2 ha holdings, 400 ha would be devoted to agricultural investigations by
the Agricultural Research Institute and the remaining 7,600 ha would be
leased as farming concessions.
Settlement
5.11      The conversion of illiterate, nomadic pastoralists into cash crop
farmers is a long and difficult process. Holdings are prepared for cropping
mechanically and the trainee settler is taught by the settleraent management
to sow, weed, irrigate and harvest. New settlers are not recruited until the
group undergoing training has acquired some farming skills. The training
period is therefore protracted. Settlement is also subject to other severe
constraints, arising not only from the reluctance of Afar nomads to adopt a
settled way of life, but also from AVA's limited capacity to train them and
provide supporting services. For these reasons, Government is not ready at
present to allocate to settlement more than the proposed 20% of the project
area. Ilowever, since the constraints will be lessened as experience is
gained, Government expects to devote a higher proportion of any future
project area to settlement and AVA has agreed to instruct the consultants
to conduct their investigations of the Bolhamo-Angelele area area primarily
on the basis of development through settlement and/or small-holdings.
5.12      Afars who do not become settlers or employees on farms would move
to new grazing lands that wiould be opened up mainly on the adjacent Alledeghi
Plain by the provision of watering points. AVA, assisted by its SRWSC con-
sultants, has carried out surveys of the grazing potential of the plain and



- 19 _
its groundwater resources, and has established a pilot farm to develop
pasture management techniques and to check actual livestock production against
estimated performance. Ample underground supplies of satisfactory water for
stock and human use having been proved by the groundwater survey, AVA has
begun the construction of seven deep wells at intervals of 15 km across the
plain. These would be pumped by a mobile unit to provide a rotation of
watering points to permit the grasslands to be utilized. Assurances were
obtained during credit negotiations that AVA would:
(a) continue to construct, in areas of the Awash ValLey determined
after consultation with IDA, a number of deep weLls adequate
to support the livestock that would be displaced from the
project area;
(b)  provide these wells with adequate pumping equipment supported
by standby equipment; and
(c) make its best efforts to institute sound livestock management
practices in these areas.
Concessions
5.13      Government intends that the size of concessions will be limited to
a maximum of 300 ha, and will average not more than 200 ha. However the three
existing concessions will remain unaltered in size, in view of Government's
prior undertakings to the concessionaires and the investments they have
already made in good faith. AVA will continue to grant concessions only to
groups of 3 or more individuals, or to share companies, for which the legal
minimum number of shareholders is 5. There would therefore be a total of
about 3'.gcnessions, involving about 100 - 150 participants.  AVA intends
to advertise for applicants for the new concessions shortly. In order to
ensure that future concessionaires would possess the same capacity to bring
about rapid and successful agricultural development as is being demonstrated
by the members of the three pioneer groups, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that AVA would adopt criteria satisfactory to IDA to evaluate
applicants' technical, administrative and financial suitability.
Recovery of Costs
5.14      Project investment costs subject to recovery amount to US$18.5
million, which cover all investment costs except (a) those for farm machinery
and operation and maintenance equipment, the depreciation of which is included
in annual production and operation and maintenance costs, respectively; (b)
the cost of feasibility studies for the Bolhamo/Angelele pLains; (c) 30% of
the cost of all roads, as (i) these would also serve non-project users and
(ii) part of the cost would be recovered through gasoline tax and other
charges; (d) price contingencies; and (e) the cost of tile drainage which,
if found to be necessary, would be recovered through a special assessment.



- 20 -
5.15      Concessionaires in the Awash Valley now pay an annual charge of
Eth$ 5 per ha for water rights and use of undeveloped land and Eth$ 15 per
ha for land under agricultural use. Under the project, concessionaires and
settlers would be required to pay, as soon as land is irrigable, an annual
operation and maintenance charge of not less than Eth$ 57 per ha. An as-
surance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. With a view to
recovering as much of the project costs as possible while providing ade-
quate incentives to concessionaires, an annual water/land charge of not less
than Eth$ 300 per ha is proposed from the beginning of the fourth year following,
the introduction of irrigation. This charge would be raised from the ninth
year onward to not less than Eth$ 500 per ha, provided AVA is satisfied that
the incentives to the concessionaires are still maintained. However, the annual,
wateip/land charge proposed for Afar settlers is Eth$ 100 per ha from the fourth
year onwards following the introduction of irrigation, which is appropriate to
the wxpected income level of Eth$ 1,500 per 2.5 ha farm. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the above proposed water/land charges would
be levied on concessionaires and settlers. In the event that tile drainage
has two be installed, a special assessment to recover the cost would be levied
on aL.]l beneficiaries.
5.16      These proposed water/land charges for concessionaires are high in
comparison with other Bank Group financed projects, but considering the re-
turns to concessions on equity (Annex 12) the charges are considered reason-
able. In any case, such charges would cover the whole recoverable cost of the
project. However, the concessionaires' returns would be very sensitive to
declines in gross revenue. For example, with the water charge at Eth$500
per ha, if gross revenue is decreased by 10%, net annual income after taxes
decreases from Eth$36,000 to Eth$18,000. If the charge were higher, say
Eth$600 per ha, and gross revenue declined by 10%, net income would decline
to about zero. Since the chance of a 10% decline in gross revenue is not
sliglht, a water charge higher than Eth$500 per ha appears unreasonable.
5.17      The revenue from the above charges would recover all project costs
at 7% (Annex 12, Table 5). If the opportunity cost of capital were assumed
to be 10%, at a 10% discount rate the present value of revenues would cover
79% Qf the present value of costs, with an implied subsidy of Eth$7.i million
(US$3.5 million). The beneficiaries of this subsidy would be mainly the Afar
settlers, who would pay Eth$100 per ha, compared with Eth$500 per ha to be
paid by concessionaires.
5.18      With the given assumptions, a 200-ha concession would produce a
net income of Eth$36,000 per annum at full development (year 10 following
the tntroduction of irrigation). This amount, split amongst the members
of the partnership, would provide each with an income of between about
Eth$7,000 (in the case of 5 partners) and Eth$12,000 (3 partners), plus a
proportionate share of the (reputed) salary of Eth$12,000 provided for in
management costs. The total income would range, therefore, from about
EthS9,500 (for each of 5 partners) to about Eth$16,000 (for each of 3 part-
ners). If he were in salaried employment, a prospective concessionaire might
earn as much as Eth$12,000 per annum.



- 21 -
5.19      AVA has the necessary legal powers to impose and collect water/land
charges. To enable these charges to be revised at periodic intervals during
the life of a concessionaire's lease, taking into account changing cropping
patterns, price levels and taxes, which would affect income and profitability,
an assurance was obtained during negotiations that AVA would review the charges
in the twelfth year following the introduction of irrigation and at intervals
of three years thereafter.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.20      Optimum production and crop diversification would require an in-
tensified research program at the Melka Warer Agricultural Research Station
on cotton, maize and groundnuts as well as on other possible crops, such as
tobacco, fruit, vegetables, oilseeds and forage crops and on livestock; the
application of these results by contessionaires and settlers; the strengthen-
ing and expansion of AVA's extension service; and the provision of adequate
credit.
5.21      The Agricultural Research Station at Melka Warer, which would serve
all the project's research needs, is operated by the Agricultural Research
Institute (an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture) with the assistance of
foreign experts provided under an on-going UNDP/FA0 project. Research work
at the Station is already being expanded to meet the project needs. A tobacco
program has commenced; there are plans to strengthen the staff by adding
an agronomist to work on maize, other coarse grains, and oilseeds, and a
seed production specialist. A small cattle herd is being built up, and
work on alfalfa is proceeding. The station also plans to have its Ethiopian
counterpart staff, following training, provide intensified extension services
to the project concessionaires. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Ministry of Agriculture would continue to employ qualified Ethiopian
specialists as counterparts to all foreign experts working full - or part-time
at the station and that adequate local finance would be provided over the next
ten years to fund the proposed expansion of the station's research program
and extension services. Under the project, miscellaneous agricultural and
laboratory equipment and vehicles are provided for this program, amounting
to US$50,000.
5.22      Extension and training services for the Afar settlers and displaced
nomads would be provided by AVA, assisted during the construction period by
the project consultants. The agricultural extension and training officer to
be appointed by AVA (para. 5.07) would undertake this task, initially as a
counterpart to a member of the consultants' staff. Following a period of
training he would assume full responsibility.
5.23      There are no processing facilities in the vicinity of the project.
In the initial stages, the cotton ginning and textile mills in Addis Ababa  6
would be adequate to handle the project needs. As production develops,



- 22 -
however, it is likely that concessionaires or other private enterprise would
construct a cotton ginnery in the project area. The Government Grain
Corporation and private enterprise would be capable of handling the maize
and groundnut production of the project as well as other coarse grains and
oilseeds should these crops be produced in the area.
Credit
5.24      Credit would be available to concessionaires from the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank of Ethiopia (AIDB) and from commercial banks.
The annual requirement of operating credit at full development would be about
Eth$ 0.5 million. In addition, about Eth$ 3 million of medium-term farm
credit would be required initially for the purchase of farm machinery, im-
plements, etc..
5.25      Concessionaires applying to commercial banks for medium- and long-
ternm credit must be able to mortgage their leasehold. This requirement is
met in the IAAESCO lease (para. 5.26) and would be included in all future
leases to be granted on the project. To grant short-term credit, commercial
banks would need to rediscount crop loans with the National Bank of Ethiopia
but, before this could be done, legislation would be necessary to permit
banks to treat crop liens as negotiable instruments. This and other matters
will be studied in the course of a credit survey financed under the AIDA
Project (para. 1.02). It is intended that the survey will recommend methods
of improving the provision of finance to farmers. Accordingly no specific
assurances have been sought regarding measures to meet the short- and medium-terit
credit needs of project farmers. Instead, during negotiations assurances were
obtained that Government would take all necessary steps to ensure the avail-
ability of agricultural credit to project beneficiaries, without specifying
the accompanying institutional arrangements.
Land Leases
5.26      In August 1971, AVA leased the Melka Sadi area to MAESCO for 30
years, with the possibility of renewal for a further 15 years by mutual
agreement. The lease specifies the rate of land development, gives the
lessee the right to use 5.5 m3 per sec of water for irrigation and - with
AVA's consent - to mortgage the land, and requires that the land be farmed
in aceordance with rules of good husbandry. Satisfactory termination clauses
are embodied in the lease and provision is made to safeguard the tree cover
within 100 in of the bank of the Awash River. With the exception of the length
of the lease period (which AVA has agreed to consider reducing in future lease
agreei4ents) the terms and conditions of this lease are satisfactory. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that terms and conditions similar to,
but not limited by, those of the MAESCO lease would be included in all future
leases. Assurances were also obtained that leases with the present three
concessionaires now operating under letters of intent (para. 3.06) would be
signed not later than the time of the first water delivery to the land.



- 23 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.01      Cotton is at present the main crop in the valley.  Given the ex-
pected prices and yields, it is highly likely that cottonL will remain the
principal crop in the area for the foreseeable future. T'he project has
therefore been analyzed as a cotton project. With the project, seed cotton
yields are expected to increase from the present level of: 2.0 to about 3 tons
per ha at full development (after 12 years). Expected incremental production
is about 22,800 tons of seed cotton.
6.02      Other crops such as maize, groundnuts, fruit, vegetables and bananas
may also be grown in the area and it is hoped that MAESCCI's example may even-
tually facilitate diversification into the latter three. These crop alterna-
tives have been only tentatively explored for the project, but the Melka Warer
Agricultural Research Station's work program on crop diversification is already
being expanded to take care of this need (para 5.21). In case diversification
into higher value crops occurs, net returns per ha could increase to as much as
three times those from cotton cultivation.
6.03      Improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides are readily available
and used extensively by the large commercial farms in the Awash Valley and
credit for their purchase would be ensured by Government (para 5.25). Land
preparation activities are largely mechanized under present conditions while
harvesting and weeding are done by manual labor. This pattern of agricultural
production is expected to continue. Labor requirements for cotton are es-
timated to be 140 man-days per ha per year. Labor would be mostly imported
from the highlands and no shortage is anticipated because of the high rate of
unemployment that prevails there. Some seasonal labor, however, would also
be provided by the Afars (para 7.04).
Market Prospects and Prices
6.04      Current per capita consumption of cotton and artificial fibers in
Ethiopia is 1.3 kg, of which about 60% is cotton. In 1970, about 12,500
tons of cotton lint were produced in Ethiopia and about 8,700 tons were
imported, as was an additional 2,600 tons of synthetic fibers. Assuming an
income elasticity of 0.62 and a per capita income growth rate of 2.5%, the
total demand for cotton is estimated at 36,000 tons by 1985, exceeding local
production forecasts by about 14,000 tons. The expected project production
of about 10,000 tons of cotton lint is, therefore, likely to find a ready
domestic market. A detailed analysis is presented in Annex 13.
6.05      During the last five years, the average price f'or medium staple
cotton lint, CIF Djibouti, was about US$0.27 per lb, the corresponding price
CIF Liverpool was about the same. The Bank's forecast fcr the next decade
sets a price of US$0.26 per lb CIF Liverpool and this is the price used in
the financial and economic analysis.



- 24 -
Farmers' Income
6.06      The beneficiaries of the project would be:  (a) the owners of the
34 concessions; (b) 800 Afar families on the AVA settlement; and (c) wage
labor on the settlement, the concessions and the Research Station. The
income of concessionaires and settlers has been analyzed using two models:
(a) a 200-ha commercial cotton farm; and (b) a 2.5-ha settler farm. Farm
budgets and related analyses are given in Annex 12. Main aspects are
summarized below:
At Full Development (Year 12)
200-ha Concession               2.5-ha Farm
(Eth$ '000)                    (Eth$)
/3
A           B-=
Total Production (ton)               600          600                  6.25
Gross Revenue                     300X1        270                   3125X4
Production Cost                   137 -         137                  1701-
Net Revenue                    163          133                   1424
Less Operation &
Maintenance Charge               11           11                    143
Water Charge                       100          100                   250
Net Revenue after Charges       52           22                   1031
Less Income Tax                    1d2            4 2
Net Income after Tax            36           18                   1080
Plus Family Labor Income           -             -                    438
Net Income per Farm             36           18                   1469
= =_
/1   Includes annual management cost of Eth$ 12,000 and annual depreciation
charge of Eth$ 10,000.
/2   At 20% of net income up to Eth$ 30,000 and 30% between Eth$ 30,000 and
Eth$ 150,000.
/3   Gross revenue decline by 10%.
A    Includes income from use of family labor on the farm = Eth$ 438 assuming
140 man-days of labor valued at Eth$ 1.25 per man-day. Also includes
AVA annual management charge of Eth$ 206 per ha.



- 25 -
On the 200-ha concession the annual net income after taxes is EthS 36,000:
the financial return on total investment is 54%. The financial rcrur, onr
equity (25% participation) is 95% at full development but it is verv sensitive
to a decline in gross revenue, as indicated above and in Annex 12, Table .3.
6.07      For the 2.5 ha farm, the annual farm income is estimated at
Eth$ 1470 or an annual per capita income of Eth$ 294 (assuming a family ot
five). This income compares favorably with the annual per capita income of
Eth$ 76 and with the expected annual income of wage earners in the project
of Fth$ 310 (250 days per year at $1.25 per day).  On the existing settler
farms, the current annual farm income level is about Eth$ 550.
Government Revenues
6.08       Income tax is levied at a rate of 20% on annuaL net incomes below
Eth$ 30,000 and at 30% between Eth$ 30,000 and Eth$ 150,000. Based on the
pro-forma analysis (Annex 12) it is estimated that, at full development,
each 200-ha concession would pay an anniual income tax of about Eth$ 16,000.
For the total area under concessions, the estimated annual revenue from income
tax would be about Eth$ 0.6 million. The loss of income from customs duty
on fiber imports would be about Eth$ 0.3 million in 1985,, assuming that 10,000
tons of cotton lint would be imported, which would no doubt be partly offset
by increased taxes paid by the processing industry which, however, cannot be
quantified.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Benefits
7.01      The major purposes of the project are to open up the Middle Awash
Valley - one of Ethiopia's most promising agricultural areas - and to provide
better employment for the rural population, foreign exchange savings by
import substitution for cotton and possibly diversification of agricultural
exports. The potential for agricultural exports clearly exists but, due to
inadequate data, a complete analysis of cost and returns was not possible.
The project was therefore analyzed as a cotton project on the assumption that
if the project is viable with cotton, it would have even higher returns with
higher value crops.
7.02      As a cotton project, production is expected to be 10,000 tons of
medium staple cotton lint per annum. The net annual foreign exchange savings
at full development are estimated at US$5.7 million. Wit]h cotton as the only
crop and a shadow wage rate of Eth$ 0.50 per day for unskilled labor, the
economic rate of return from the project would be about 16%. Details of
the analysis and assumptions are given in Annex 14.



- 26 -
7.03      The analysis of the sensitivity of the economic rate of return wfas
made for assumed variations in capital investment, revenue and shadow labor
wages. An increase of 10% in capital investment would cause the rate of return
to drop to 14% and a 10% decrease in gross revenue would result in a drop to
13%. Combining the above modifications would still give a rate of return of
11%. If market wage rates of Eth$ 1.25 per day for unskilled labor should
apply instead of the shadow wages of Eth$ 0.50, the economic rate of return
would be 13%.
Employment
7.04      The project would create employment for the local Afars and for
underemployed workers from the highlands. The AVA settlement would even-
tuaily settle 800 families, and the settlement farms would also hire labor
seasonally for cotton picking. At full development, it is estimated that
regular employment for about 2,000 farm workers and seasonal employment (three
months per year) for about 7,000 workers would be created by the settlement,
theiresearch station and the concessions. During the construction period,
about 750 workers would be employed on construction of the project.
Income Distribution
7.05      The direct beneficiaries of the project would comprise the settlers
on the AVA farms, wage earners, and the 100 - 150 partners in the 34 conces-
sions. For the settlers, the per capita income for a family of five is ex-
pected to rise from about Eth$ 76 to Eth$ 294 at full development. For fully-
employed wage earners, assuming 250 working days per year. the annual income is
expected to be about Eth$ 310 and for the seasonal workers, Eth$ 100. These
incomes would accrue to the presently underemployed workers from the high-
lands as well as some Afars from the Valley, whose incomes are at subsistence
level. As to the concessionaires, some of whom currently earn Eth$ 12,000
per year in salaried employment, their incomes are expected to be between
Eth$ 9,500 and Eth$ 16,000, including salary provided for in management costs.
VIII.  RECOMIENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the following principal assurances were obtained
from the Government:
(a)  the studies to be undertaken by the consultants would in-
clude a study of schistosomiasis in relation to the project
and, except as AVA and IDA shall otherwise agree, AVA would
undertake the control measures recommended by the consultants
(para. 4.25); and
(b)  within two years of the signing of the credit agreement AVA
would take such measures as may be necessary, after consultation
with IDA, to adopt a revised organization (para. 5.05).



- 27 -
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that AVA bad:
(a) signed a project financing agreement with Government, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, covering Government's
transfer of the proceeds of the proposed credit to AVA and
provision of the balance of project costs not financed from
the proceeds of the proposed credit (para. 4.18); and
(b) employed a consulting firm, acceptable to IDA (para. 5.06).
8.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$17 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
MIIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
1.        During the course of the feasibility study, about 1,700 soil
profiles were examined throughout the Amibara Plain and the adjoining
Melka-Sadi Plain. The soils were classified and a land use classification
was then developed from the information obtained.
2.        The soils of the project area are recent alluviums of considerable
depth in which two main phases of deposition are recognized.  During the
first phase, sandy loams to clay loams (the "brown" soils) with good
permeability - Class I soils - were deposited, while in the second phase,
loamy clays with restricted permeability - Class II - were deposited in the
low lying areas along the estern and western edges of tiu brown soils.  The
thickness of these heavier "black" soils varies from a few centimeters to
more than 3 m.
3.        Following the 1969 appraisal mission, it was found that supplemen-
tary work was required on the project land classification, including studies
on soils, drainage, water quality, and economics. Italconsult was given the
assignment and work was completed by September 1971.
4.        During the course of these supplemental studies field investigations
were carried out at more than 300 additional sites in the project area, soil
samples from which were also analysed in the laboratory. As a result:
a)   the accuracy of the land classification was increased;
b)   the degree of salinity and alkalinity in project soils
under existing conditions was determined accurately;
c)   additional information was obtained on soil permeability
by carrying out tests on infiltration rates and hydraulic
conductivity. Tests of salt leaching were also made; and
d)   the existing boron content of soils and Awash River water
was determined and a judgement was made whether excessive boron
would be likely to accumulate in the soils under irrigation.
5.        The revised survey and land classification shows that salinity
and alkalinity are not problems under present conditions and would not
become critical under irrigation if adequate provision were made for
drainage. Boron occurs in moderate concentration in certain areas under
present conditions but would be expected to be leached under irrigation
development, especially with the anticipated good quality irrigation water.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        The arable soils of the area have satisfactory infiltration rates.
The ,brown soils can be leached of soluble salts but, since the heavier
blaok soils have low salt levels, their susceptibility to leaching was;not
determined. Italconsult, the Institute of Agricultural Research, and
Victoria State Rivers and Water Supply Commission (SRWSC) feel, however,
that* the black soils in the arable area have sufficient vertical water per-
colation to meet requirements for salt balance in the soil profile. Never-
theless, the Melka Warer research station has undertaken to investigate the
vertical hydraulic conductivity of the black soils in relation to leaching
capacity.
7.        On the basis of the supplementary investigations, about 56%
(5,600 ha) of the net arable area of the project is regarded as Class I
soils, with subsoils having hydraulic conductivity values in excess of 8 mm
per hours. The remainder of the arable area, the black soil, (about
4,400 ha) is classified as Class II soils, in which there is some internal
drainage constraint.
February 19, 1973



AN,NIv 2
?a' Re 1
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Pro ect 17orks
Proi eCt Concept
1.        Two alternative methods of diverting w.ster from tne Awash ;fiver were
examined - gravity and pumpine.  Tne consultants selected gravity diversion as
tile more economical method and because of its deq!]ting and reregulating, ef-
fects. The small pumps presently operated by the concessionaires and AVA to
irrigate about 2,500 ha would be discarded whlen gravi.tv supvply becomes avail-
able, by wnich time their value wotuld have been fully amortized.
The Melka Warer Diversion Weir
2.        The Melka W4arer diversion weir would have a storago capacity of
about 600,000 m3. Foundation constructfon would pose some problems -- on the
right side the structure would stand otl a basalt bed, while on the left side
it would be set on compact clay.  Foundation elevation woul(i be 724.0 m MISL,
with the crest at 738.0 m, and maximum permissible hich flow would be 1,100
n3 per sec.  The weir would have three spans, each 20 mn lon>z.  The intake to
the Amibara canal would have a capacity of 30 m3per sec, which would be suf-
ficient to supply both the project area (10,000 ha) and the lolhamo and
Angelele areas (another 10,000 ha) - Stage IT of the project.  A road bridfge
would be built over the weir.
3.        A low reinforced concrete weir is proposed.  It would include a
mass concrete over-pour section, with gate-controlled gravel and silt bypasses
and a gate-controlled canal intake on the right bank;.  It is recommended,
however, that this arrangement be reconsidered at final design and that,
instead of the silt bypasses, self-operating crest gates (tilting shutter
type) or alternatively radial gates be installed along the entire crest of
the weir to reduce the back-up of the river during floods and consequently
the heiglht of the flood protection dyke. With this arrangement, part of
the silt would be evacuated at each flood and the reregulating capacity of
the weir would be partly reinstated.  It is also recommended that masonry
be substittuted for concrete wherever possible. Substantial savings -- up
to 30% -- would be realized if the above modifications were made, due to the
low cost of labor in Ethiopia and to the availabilitv of good quality construc-
tion material in the vicinity.  These savings have alreadv been taken into
account in the cost estimates.
4.        An alternative spillway arrangement should also be considered at
final desigrn.  This would utilize a spillway chtannel excavated in one river
banlk and permit concrete work to be carried out in the dry.. Savings in con-



ANNEX 2
Page 2
struction, time, and costs may be achieved depending on site features and
geological conditions.
5.        The key problems are foundation conditions and desilting.  Further
geological investigations, sedimentation studies and, possibly, hydraulic
model tests must therefore be carried out before preparing final designs.
MIain Canal
6.        The main canal (Amibara canal) would be unlined except for short,
well-defined stretches. The canal would be close to 21 km long with an
initial discharge of 12.6 3 per sec; it would be so designed that, after
deepening, its capacity would be increased sufficiently to serve Stage II.
Works would include secondary canal intakes, water measuring structures,
regulating weirs and syphon outlets, with tail drain gates and bridges.
At final design, masonrv should be used instead of concrete whenever possible.
tain Drains
7.        The network includes two main drains and three branch drains.  The
eastern main drain (22 km) follows the border of the project area and its
capacity is designed to carry the drainage discharge of the whole Melka Sadi
project area (4,600 ha). The western main drain (24 km) receives the flow of
three branch drains (12 km) and joins the eastern main drain at the northern
boundary of the project area; the combined drainage flows discharge by gravity
into the Cadda Billen swamp.
8.        Prior to final design, a study of drainage along the eastern border
of the project would have to be made to determine the most economic methods
for handling runoff from the escarpment located east of the project. The pos-
sibility of diverting drainage water into the storage created by the Melka
Warer diversion weir would also have to be studied; should this prove fea-
sible, it would increase water availability during low flow stages of the
river, and reduce the cost of the eastern main drain of the Amibara project.
Flood Protection Dykes
9.        The western dyke (37 km) would protect the project area from floods
of the Awash River and its tributaries. It would start at the Melka Warer
weir and have a height ranging from 1.5 m to 5 m.  A 4-m top width is recom-
mended.
10.       The eastern dyke, about 22 km long with heights varying from 1.0 in
to 2.5 m, would protect the area from the surface rtnoff from the Alledeghi
Plains. A more refined study to determine its technical and economic justifi-
cation prior to final design is recommended, but construction costs have been
included in the cost estimates.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.       It is assumed that implementation of the Melka Sadi project will
provide protection against floods from the Awash River overflowing the right
bank upstream of the Melka Warer weir. However, if this should not be
achieved in due time, a flood dyke in addition to the ones mentioned in the
preceding paragraphs would have to be built across the plain along the link
road which would separate the two irrigation projects, Melka-Sadi and Amibara.
This dyke would be 2.3 km long and about 4.5 m high. Its cost is included in
the estimate of project costs.
Irrigation Networks
12.       Irrigation networks consist of secondary and tertiary open earth
canals conveying water to each block of about 64 ha. The total length of
these canals would be about 20 m per ha of gross area (11,000 ha) and all
would be fitted with intakes with measuring structures andl control gates,
water control structures and tail drains structures. W4henever indicated,
a contour layout is recommended to reduce land levelling c:osts. Design of
the tertiary network, with canals spaced about 800 m apart, is based on a
water duty of 1.1 liters per sec per ha, with 24-hour operation at peak pe-
riods, which would be sufficient to meet water requirements for a cropping
intensity of 130%.
Drainage Networks
13.       Secondary and tertiary drains, with sDacing similar to that of the
irrigation network, would remove surplus surface water from the field drains
and convey it to the main drains. The proposed design duty for tertiary
drains (about 7 liters per sec per ha, which appears rather high) would be
reviewed at final design. 24-hours submergence of the land, consistent with
the recommended cropping pattern, would be acceptable for the removal of the
maximum daily rainfall of 65 mm.
14.       On the basis of present knowledge of groundwater level and soil per-
meability, it is likely that, after about five years of actual irrigation,
tile drainage may need to be installed to control the water table. Eventually,
it may have to be extended over the entire project. The construction of tile
drains would spread over five years: its cost was estimated at US$3.3 million
at current prices. Drainage investigations and water table monitoring carried
out under the project would determine the actual spacing of the tile drains
and the area to be served. It is recommended that, at final design, the depth
of the drains and, more important, the sill levels of the structures be so de-
signed that the system can accommodate tile drains in the future.
Roads
15.       Approximately 100 km of principal roads, including the link road to
the Awash-Tendaho highway, and 110 km of service roads would be constructed.
Both types would be gravel-surfaced with scoria, locally available, and be 5
m and 4 m in width respectively, with 1 m wide shoulders. All roads would
receive a 0.20 m thick stabilized finish. In addition, about 100 km of un-
surfaced tracks would be constructed as part of the tertiary network.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
On-Farm Development Works
16.       On-farm works would include bush clearing on about 6,000 ha, removal
of stones from some 300 ha, and land levelling of the entire area of 10,000
ha.  This would be followed by the construction of field canals and drains
spaced at intervals of about 200 m to 400 m, with intake structures on the
tertiary irrigation canals only. The length of the field canals and drains
would amount to about 40 m per ha for each category. The construction
schedule would coordinate the completion of these works with the correspond-
ing distribution system in order to achieve immediate use of water release.
February 19, 1973



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        The flow of the Awash River that would reach the storage created
by the Melka Warer weir would depend upon the discharges from the Koka Dam
and power plants (controlled by the Ethiopian Electric Light and Power
Authority, EELPA) and inflows as well as water diversions between Koka Dam
and Melka Warer weir.
2.        Stream flow records from 1962 through 1968 were utilized to
estimate the project water supply. Daily data are available for five
stations on the Awash River upstream of the project and at Kesem the weir
sites and for each of the main tributaries, consisting of Arba, Kesem and
Kebena. Despite the fact that these data are neither totally concurrent
with nor complete for the study period, they do correlate in the primary
variations and depict typicallv low water conditions when shortages are
most likely to occur, such as in the 1966/67 hydrological year. These data
are acceptable for water availability analysis.
3.        The commissioning of Koka Dam in 1961, with a reservoir capacity
of 1.680 Mm3, changed the regime of the river to provide increased dry
season flow. As a result, a series of irrigation schemes have been
developed and are still in the process of being expanded upstream of the
project. As forecast in the Third Five-Year Plan, these projects would
irrigate a total of about 26,000 ha at completion. The:Lr annual water
requirements with the present cropping pattern have been estimated at
about 190 Mm3, with peak requirements of about 25 m3 per sec occurring during
August and September.
4.        The analysis of flow records in conjunction with the upstream uses
of water show that the Awash regulated flow would be adequate to meet the
irrigation requirements of both the upstream schemes and the project area,
with only minor deficits in severe drought years, provided that (a) water
diversion by all upstream users was controlled and limited to the fore-
casted level and (b) EELPA agreed to continue to operate the Koka power
plant to release, during periods of anticipated low flow, the discharges needed
by downstream users.
5.        AVA has advised that there has been no difficulty during the last
10 years and no difficulties are foreseen, since the Finchaa hydroelectric
station will be commissioned in 1972/73 and another large hydroelectric
project will be in operation in 1980, further increasing the flexibility of
the FELPA system.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        In order to ensure an adequate water supply for the project, AVA
would enforce overall control of the flow of water in the Awash River on
the basis of quantified water rights for upstream users based on the fore-
casted level. It would also maintain records of stream flow and diversions
to predict when low stream flow conditions would be likely to cause water
shortages for the project. When such conditions were anticipated, AVA would
advise EELPA to maintain adequate minimum daily releases from Koka Diam in
accordance with project needs.
Water Demand
7.        Consumptive use requirements for crops were computed by the Blaney-
Criddle method and correlated from existing irrigation experience in the
area. In view of the low individual rainfall level, only 60% of the total
rainfall was considered effectice in meeting consumptive requirements. Field
irrigation efficiency was estimated at 70%. Considering peak demand, with
a 24-hour-per-day operation for the highest water consuming cropping pattern
and leaching requirement, the tertiary network was designed for 1.08 liters
per sec per ha. Based on the prevailing soil types and an unlined system,
canal losses were estimated to be 150 liters per day per m2 of wetted area
and an overall efficiency of 56% was adopted for diversion.
8.        On the basis of the assumptions, irrigation water requirements
have been calculated by 10-day intervals for three cropping patterns: single
cotton; cotton-maize; and cotton-maize-groundnuts. Monthly data are presented
in Table 1. Total annual diversion at full development ranges from 75 Mm3 to
97 Mm3, or, on average, 7500 m3 to 9,700 m3 per cropped ha. The peak gross
demand occurs during October with 11.5 m3 per sec. Project water supplies
are adequate.
Water Quality
9.        A comprehensive analysis of 30 water samples, collected at five
stations in 1970, indicated that the quality of the anticipated water supply
would be satisfactory for sustained irrigation under adequate conditions of
leaching and drainage. Boron would not be a significant factor under these
conditions. The water contains moderate amounts of bicarbonate and possibly
some carbonate, thereby tending to reduce the effectiveness of the beneficial
calcium component.
February 19, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AMIBLRA_IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Water Requirements
Jan   Feb    Mar   Ar  MA   June  July  Aug   Sept    Oct   Nov  Dec  Total
Crops
Irrigation Requirements
Cotton:     Net 1/             _                            200   290   220   1,360  1,720  410   -   4,200
Field 2/          -             -     -         280   420   320   1,940  2,460  580   -   6,000
Maize:      Net               610  1,260  1,470  190   -    -       -     -      _       _     -   380  3,910
Field            870  1,800  2,100  270   -    -       -      -      -      _     -   540  5,580
Groundnuts: Net                -     -       -     -    -   280   140    -    1,030  1,470  280   -   3,200
Field              -     -                      4 _    -   00   200    -    1,470  2,100  400   -   4,570
----------------------- (Project requirements in Mm3) ----------------------
Cropping Patterns
Irrigation Requirements
1.       lCotton Cro
(10,000 ha)
Field             _      _      -     _    -   2.8   4.2   3.2    19.4   24.6  5.8   -    60.0
Diversion i/       -     -      -     -    -   3.5   5.2   4.0    24.2   30.8  7.3   -    75.0
2. Cotton-Maize
( 10,000 ha - 3,000 ha)
Field            2.6   5.4    6.3   0.8   -   2.8   4.2   3.2    19.4   24.6  5.8  1.6   76.7
Diversion        3.3   6.8    7.9   1.0   -   3.5   5.2   4.0    24.2   30.8  7.3  2.0   96.0
3. Cotton-Miaize-Groundnuts
(7,000 ha - 3,000 ha -
3,000 ha)
Field            2.6   5.4    6.3.  0.8   -             3.3   2.2    17.5   21.6  4.7  1.6  53.9
Diversion        3.3   6.8    7.9   1.0   -   3.6   4.2   2.8    21.3   27.9  6.3  2.0   68.1
------------------_-----------------  m3/s ---------------------------------
Maximum foreseen diversion
requirements           .      1.3   2.8    3.0   0.4   -   1.4   2.0   1.5       9.4   11.5  2.8  0.8    -
1/  Consumptive use minus effective rainfall.                                                                             1-3
2/  Calculated at 70% efficiency.                                                                                        CD
i/  Calculated at 80% efficiency.
Febru:rv t 1   1971






ANNEX 4
ETPIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Investigations and Studies
1.        The following field investigations and studies would be carried
out by the consultants, with assistance from AVA:
(a) Prior to Final Design
(i)  additional exploratory drillings at the Melka Warer
diversion weir site, including geological and soil
mechanics studies;
(ii)  preparation of hydraulic models of the diversion weir;
(iii) sedimentology studies to overcome desilting problems
at the diversion site and in the irrigation and
drainage networks;
(iv)  drainage study for the intercepting drain along the
eastern border of the project area, including the
technical and economic feasibility of the eastern dyke;
(v)  study of the possibility of diverting the main drain
from the Melka Sadi area into the backwater area of
the Melka Warer weir; and
(vi)  additional surveying and mapping.
(b)  During Project Construction
(i)  studies of schistosomiasis and other areas of
public health;
(ii)  feasibility study for a second-stage project to develop
the Bolhamo and Angelele areas of about 10,000 ha; and
(iii) drainage study of the entire Amibara Project area to
determine the timing and specifications of tile drainage
installation, including the installation of piezometers
for monitoring of groundwater levels.
2.        The terms of reference of the proposed investigations and studies
have been agreed upon between IDA and the Authority.
February 19, 1973



l



kIB3A-I?A lTiIGjiTI0:; PR0J,CT
Cosi; Estimates
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total   Foreizn
E-xchange
-----3th$ million --------    --        US- million-------
1. Irrigation & Drainage (10,000 ha net)
11elka Warer Weir                           1.57     1.81        3.38     0.76     0.87       1.63      54
Main Canal                                  0.67     0.87        1.54     0.32     0.42       0.74      56
Main Drains                                  1.63     1.95       3.58     0.79     0.94        1.73     54
Dykes                                       1.50     1.88        3.38     0.72     0.91       1.63      56
Distribution Networks                       2.06      2.67       4.73     1.00     1.25        2.29     56
Sub-Total            17 TT            3     9 T.43 78772    55
2. Roads (210 km)
liain Roads including Link Road             0.77     0.97        1.74     0.37    o047        0.84      56
Minor toads                                 o.63     0.72        1.35     0.30     0.35        o.65     53
Sub-Total      1       .4 0   1T           T        0.57     =         7T9  ~55
Total Civil Works    8.63    10.87       19.70      4.26     5.25       9.51      55
3. On-Farm Development
3.18     3.12       6.30     1.54      1.51       3.05     50
Total Contract Works 1b       1399         6.00  5 .00       77        12Z5        4
4. Consultants
Engineering and Supervision                 o.65      2.59       3.24     0-32     1.25        1.57     80
Investigations and Studies (including
feasibility study of Bolhamo and
Angelele areas)                          0.69      1.70       2.39     0.33     0.82        1.15     71
Technical Assistance for On-Farm
Development and O&i                      0.23     0.86        1.09     0.11     0. 2        0.53     79
Sub-Total             1 .57   -537¶                 0.76     2.49, 3h7            77
5. Building and Housing                         1.20      0.09       1.29     o.58     0.04        0.62      7
6.  Equipment and Vehicles                      0.32      1.69       2.01     0.15     0.82        0.97     84
Total Works          1i.1     =           3 2       7       1y 10.11     7        58
Contingencies
Physical TI5)6)                             2.27      3.14       5.41     1.09      1.52       2.61     58
Price (3% per year on local costs and
6% per year on foreign costs)            1.54      4.31       5.85     0.76      2.07       2.83     74
G.RAND TOTAL (without duties)1B.21                     z  T1       ;70         22.b9     60
fustoms duties, excise tax and municipal    0.25                 0.25     0.12                 0.12
19.16    2e.37      47.53     9.26    13.70       22.96
April 2, 1973



Table 2
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJFCT
2/
Buildings and Housing
Description                Units                 Total Cost
--- Eth4L-
Project Headquarters         1                    120,000
Staff Houses                23                    690,000
Guest House                  1                     60,000
Recreation House             1                     40,000
Cormissary                   1                     50,000
Emergency Clinic             1                     70,000
Workshops                    1                     30,000
Stores                       4                   140,000
Power Station                1                     30,000
Water Supply System          1                     50,000
Miscellaneous                -                     20,000
1 ,300, 000
1/   Refers only to construction costs, not including
physical and price contingencies. All furniture
and special equipment are in Annex 6
February 2, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AMIBAEA IRRIGATION PROJECT
AVA ProJect Cehb Flow
Total         Total
Y.Ar  1    2           3            4          5            6            7         8           9          10          11             12      13-Onwards    14 -50          1   I50
Year        ---EtS0 )
---------------------------------------------------------------  (Eth$ ' 000)  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sources
Development Loan-                                           2,720      3,730      10,030       12,460      6,287          -            -          -           -          -           -             -           -                        35,227
Covernment Loan                                               772         926      3,938        4,244        -            -            -          -           -          -           -             -           -             -           9,880
Go-rneent Gr-nt - for Project Invstent                        -          -          -             368      2,055          -                       -           -          -           -             -           -             -           2.423
Sub-Total                         3.492       4.656      13,968       17,072     8,342                                                                                                                          47_30
Governnt Gr-nt - for Oper.tionm,                              163         173         183         193        120         100          100      (2,350)      1,340      1,340       1,340         1,340                        -           4,042
Operation   q,5Meintenamce Charg-                             -           -         -            -           460         570          570         570         570        570         570           570         570         21,090        26,110
Water Charge-                                                  37          37          37          37        120         150          150       2 600       2 6060     0 200       2 600         2 600       4.200        155.400        173 168
Total Source.                     3,692       4,866      14,188       17,302     9,042         820          820         820       4,510      4,510       4,510         4,510       4.770         176,490       250,850
Uses
In"eatna ts in ProJect    4/                                3,492      4,656      13,968       17,072      8,342          -            -          -           -          -           -             -           -              -          47,530
Development Loan - Annuity-                                   -           -          -           -           -            -            -          -         3.690      3,690       3.690         3,690       3,690        136,530        154,980
Govern,enet Lean - Annuity                                    _-                                                                                              -          -           -             -           260           9,620         9,880
Operation & Maintenance Expenditures                          -           -          -           -           460         570          570         570         570        570         570           570         570         21,090         26,110
Ad.in.itrative Epen.es-                                       200         210         220          230       240         250          250         250         250        250         250           250          250          9.250        12.350
3,692      4,866      14,188       17,302      9,042         820          820         820      4,510       4,510      4,510          4,510       4,770        176,490       250,850
J/ IDA f'onda - 7% of total investment.
- At Eth$57 per ha per aman fron the fifth year onward.
3 At EchS15 per ha (the current rate) free year 1-7.   or concenelon iree at ELh$300 per ha per annum
fron year  8-12 incl-sive and at Eth8500 per ha per  onn fran year 13  n.ard.  For settlera at
Eth$100 per ho per  -nn  fr- year 8 onward.
4/ Proceeds of IDA credit would be relent to AVA by Government at 7% inttrest annoally repayable over
50 yearn with eight years of rare on capital and intareat, interest being accoulated. G-vsrsann'nt
,len montributi.n vould be lent to AVA at oil interest repayable over 50 yeare with 12 years of  ro.e.
E Estinated on the basi. of previou- AVA enpenditeres.
April 9, 1973






ANTN X 7
ETHIGPIA
AIMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Eqgipment
Unit Price
Qnantitry CT' DWibouti  Tlotal'  Grand fotal
. lpe>ation IMinV.enance
Crawler Dragline - 3 C7177i yd.
with face shovel attach-
mrent                                 2        28,000        56,ooo
Motor Grader-120 hp                      1         39,000       39,000
Cr.awler Tractor-60-75 hp                2         20,000       40,000
viPeel Tractor-( i) hp front- end
loao.er and backhoe                   1        11,000        11,000
'railer--tipping                         1          ,000          5,000
itr12Lfl.at-ic R0oller-10 ton            1         7,000         7,000
Concrete MLxer-200 liters                2          2,000        4,000
Diufip 'TLrucics-10 tons                 2         12,000       24,000
tKater Trucks-8,000 liters               2         14,000       28,000
Piick-up :-z ton-4 wheel drive           3          4,500       13,500
Diesel Pumps-portable 4"                 3          1,500         4,500
Miscellaneous                            -            -         20,000
SiPare parts at 25,                                   _         68,000    320,300
': .    .ui lijngs and  iousi.n
Equipmen-tii Faurniture                                        140,000
Spare parts at 25-                                    -         35,0       175,000
i. Earm Machinery for Set-tlement
INLTeel Tractor.s-65 hp                 18          5,000        90,000
',fSorkshop Equiprnent                   -            -          30,'000
1'ascellaneous Agricultural
equi-pnent and vehicles                            -         50,000
Spare parts at 25-                                    -         37,000    207,000
i;. Equipmen,, for Research Station
Misc ellafleOla  Agricultura and
Laboratory Equipment and
Vehicles                                           -50,000  - 0,000
V Tehcies for ProJect AuthorEit
Four wheel drive - passenger
-ty1 ,e                               5         4,5)0        22,50o
Sh.:are s:arts aa 25,                    _                       5,500      28,00
GHULJD TOTAL                                                            780,000
\pr-I  2, 1973






ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA I RMIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditure
1973/74     197L/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78    Total
Irgton ad Drainape
heLk War Wir                                               0.2          1-3          1.9                   3.4
Main Canal                                                  -           0.6         0.9           -.5
Main Drain                                      _          0.2          1.7         1.7                    3.6
Flood Dykes                                     _          0.2          1.2         1.4          o.6       3.4
Distribution NetworScs                                      -           1.8         1.9          1.0       4.7
Sub-Total                       -          o.6         6.6          7.8          1.6      16.6
Roads                                          0.2         0.4          0.9         0.9          ° 7       3.1
Total Civil Works              0.2         1.0          7.5         8.7          2.3      19.7
On-Farm Development                             -          0.4          1.9         1.9          2.1       6.3
Total Contract Works           0.2         1.4         9.4         10.6          4.4      26.0
Consultants                                    1.3         1.5          1.4         1.5          1.0       6.7
Building and Housing                           1.0         0.3           -            -           -        1.3
Squipment and Vehicles                         0.4         0.4           -          o.6          0.6       2.0
Total Works                    2.9         3.6         10.8        12.7          6.o      36.0
Contingencies
Physical                                       0.4         o.6          1.6          1.9         0.9        5.4
Price                                          0.1         0.4          1.5          2.4         1.5        59
GRAND TOTAL (without duties)  3.4          4.6         13.9        17.0          8.h       7.3
IDA Credit                     2.7         3.7         10.0        12.5          6.3      35.2
Goverrmenj Contribution
without Customs Duties      0.8         0.9          3.9         4.6          2.1      12.3
-------------------- - --US$ million- ---____ ---------------
IDA Credit                     1.3         1.8          4.9         6.o          3.0      17.0
Government Contribution
without Customs Duties      0.4         o.4          1.9         2.2          1.0       5.9
TOTAL EXPENDITURE              1.7         2.2          6.8         8.2          4.0      22.9
April 2, 1973



ADNNEX 8
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
AMIBAIRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
IBID LrIsca1 Year                                  Cumulative Disbursemen-t
and Qjuarter                                        at end ol' Quarter
(US$ t000)
1 V73/74
1 - Sep-tember 30, 1973                                    200
2 - December 31, 1973                                      400
3 - Piarch 31, 1974                                        700
i - June 30, 1974                                        1,000
1274/75
1 - September 30, 1974                                   1,300
2 - December 31, 1974                                    1,700
3 - Ivarch 31 , 1975                                     2,100
4 - June 30, 1975                                        2,500
1 97T/76
1 - Septeember 30, 1975                                  3,100
2 - December 31, 1975                                    4,100
3 - March 31, 1976                                       5,300
',-  ure 30, 1976                                      6,600
1 97(,/77
1 - SepLem,ber 30, 1976                                  8  000
2 - December 31, 1976                                    9,5o0
3 - March 31, 1977                                      11 ,000
4 - June 30, 1977                                       12,500
1 '77/78
1 -  ~September `0, 1977                                14,000
2 - December 31, 1977                                   15,100
3 - March 31, 1978                                      16,QOO
4 - June 30, 1978                                       16,600
1M78/7q
1 - Septerber 30, 1978                                  17,000
frlio l3, 1973



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization and Management
Background
1,        The Awash Valley Authority (AVA) was established by charter (Attach-
ment 1) in 1962 and is a public body of the Imperial Ethiopian Government.
In general terms, AVA's purpose is to administer and develop the natural
resources of the Awash river basin, conducting resource surveys, preparing
plans and programs for the utilization and development of the resources,
and, where appropriate, coordinating activities of other government agencies
and private enterprises concerned with resource utilizatiorn and develop-
ment within the Awash river basin. In addition to the above, the Authority
is also responsible for:
(a) administration;
(b) water management;
(c) estate administration and management;
(d) agricultural and industrial development;
(e) financial administration; and
(f) legislation.
2.        AVA's present organization is shown in Chart 7413.  A Board of
Commissioners is charged with providing overall policy guidance to the Author-
ity, while a General Manager directs day-to-day operations, subject to the
general guidelines established by the Board. The General Manager is assisted
by a Deputy, who supervises the work of three departments (Engineering, Agri-
cultural Development and Administration). The Legal Adviser, Auditor, and the
Secretary to the Board of Commissioners are directly responsible to the General
Manager.
3.        To carry out one of its major functions - coordinating the
activities of government agencies concerned with the development of the
Awash river basin - coordination is required at three disti nct but inter-
connected levels; namely, policy, operational and technical. Within AVA,
the General Manager, who is also a member of the Board, constitutes the
link at policy level between the Board of Commissioners and the Deputy
General Manager. At the operational and technical levels, the Deputy
General Manager is the link with the Head of the Planning Unit and the
Heads of Operational Departments.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        The Board of Commissioners is made up of representatives of
seven government agencies: Agriculture, Commerce and Industry, Finance,
Interior, Planning Commission (Prime Minister's Office), Public Works and
Water Resources and Communications. Individual members of the Board are
responsible for effecting coordination between AVA and the agency they
represent. Other government agencies concerned with the development of the
Awash river basin, but not represented on the Board, coordinate their
activities in the basin through the Ministry of Finance and the Planning
Commission, as both have to approve the recurrent and capital budgets
thereby controlling policy.
Activities
5.        At its inception in 1962, AVA commenced work assisted by UNDP with
FAO acting as Executing Agency. A general survey of the river basin was
completed by consultants (Sogreah, France) in 1965 and thereafter development
projects in the fields of hydro-power, irrigation, and livestock were identi-
fied. The Melka Sadi-Amibara irrigation project (the feasibility study for
which was done by Italconsult, Italy) was one of these. AVA, also with UNDP/FAO
assistance, has established a 1,000 ha settlement scheme in the project area.
800 ha of this area have been developed of which about 170 ha are being farmed
by 67 Afar settlers under the guidance of AVA staff, each with 2.5 ha farms;
the remainder (630 ha) is farmed directly by AVA. The Authority has also set
up an extension service in the lower valley, carried out river training works
and sociological and livestock studies, drafted water legislation and con-
ducted some marketing studies. It has leased about 36,000 ha to local and
foreign investors and the areas involved are already developed or In process
of being developed. It estimates that an additional 30,000 ha might be im-
proved in the valley in the coming five years, bringing the total area to
some 66,000 ha by about 1976/77.
Problems
6.        Three major problems have plagued AVA since its creation -- lack
of staff, inadequate finance, and ineffective coordination between govern-
ment agencies,
7.        The present staff amounts to about 22 professionals, including ag-
riculturalists, economists, and engineers, and some 12 sub-professionals.
Because there is a shortage of competent and experienced senior professionals
and of staff at the technician level, AVA relies heavily on expatriate
experts and consultants, both individuals and private firms. A UNDP/FAO
project, in progress since 1966 and expected to last through 1975, is assist-
ing AVA in developing its technical capabilities and in-service training
of staff.
8.        AVA depends for funds on receipts from land leases and other
charges; borrowing from either local or foreign sources; and Government
budgetary allocations. So far, it has not been able to raise funds through
borrowing; receipts from land leases are presently small; and budgetary



ANNEX 9
Page 3
allocations have been limited, mainly because of the lack of sound develop-
ment proposals for projects in the valley. Additionally, there is a lack
of effective coordination between AVA and interested government agencies,
in spite of the composition of the Board. Representatives of key agencies
often do not attend Board meetings and are generally not of the level
required to ensure effective liaison.  The fact is that ulntil AVA can
actively undertake proper economic development in the valley and produce
results, the authorities will probably not take any particular interest
in Board decisions or participate therein.
Further UNDP/FAO Assistance
9.        Even though UNDP/FAO efforts to assist AVA to develop its technical
and organizational capacity from 1966 to 1969 had rather poor results, the:y
are determined to continue their efforts to strengthen the Authority. Since
1970 FAO, as Executing Agency, has provided a Liaison OffLcer, and, through
a contract with the Victoria State Rivers and Water Supply Commission (SRWSC)
of Australia, has supplied the services of a team of experts to:
(a) strengthen AVA management, planning, overall procedures,
and techniques;
(b) assist in implementing development projects now being
undertaken in the valley and in planning and preparing
new development projects; and
(c) engage experts and consultants' for feasibility studies,
hydraulic engineering, preparation of land leases, super-
vision of construction, water-borne diseases and pollution
control.
It is expected that this assistance will be provided for Eive years.
10.       SRWSC experts are assigned to work with the folLowing departments:
Land Management, Water Development, Agriculture, Finance and Budget, and
Administration. Such assistance would not conflict with or duplicate the
project organization proposed for the IDA project.
Project Organization
11.       The proposed project organization is designed to execute the
project and build up AVA as a development organization. It would provide
on-the-job training for AVA counterpart personnel assigned to the project
and create and develop a permanent and fully equipped operation and mainte-
nance unit for the irrigation, drainage, dykes, and road systems. It would
be the first development project undertaken by AVA. The lproject organization
would be integrated into AVA's framework but it would be given enough
Independence so that it could operate as a compact and self-sufficient unit.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
12.       The consultants would provide the Project Manager, who would be
responsible to AVA's Project Executive Director for all project implementa-
tion activities. They would also provide a Chief Construction Engineer, the
Agriculture Section Head, and other required specialists as well as the
necessary support personnel to carry out scheduled studies including the
Stage II feasibility study, prepare final design and cost estimates and
provide technical assistances to AVA's management for operation and mainten-
ance and for the resettlement of the Afar population. Consultant manpower
requirements are given in Annex 10.
13.       One of the main tasks of the various consultants and specialists
recruited for project implementaticn and operation and maintenance would
be to train Ethiopian counterpart personnel and thus to establish, within
AVA, a sound pattern for development project implementation.
14.       AVA's Future Organization
At present the Authority is considering the future shape of its
organization following a recent study by SRWSC It. The study comments on
the need for improvement in the overall planning of valley development; the
engineering control of activities such as the operation and maintenance of
plant and machinery; the setting out of agricultural, horticultural and graz-
ing areas; the design, planning, construction, operation and maintenance of
irrigation systems; flood control, access roads, environmental control, con-
servation and the planning and development of towns or settlements. It also
places emphasis on the importance of improving managerial skills in all depart-
ments. To achieve these objectives it recommends the adoption of a revised
organization (Charts7414 and 7411) which would include a strengthened planning
unit, the upgrading of regional offices, and the establishment of a new divi-
sion responsible for the operation and maintenance of mechanical plant.
1/ UNDP/SF/Eth 25 Informal Technical Report No. 6, dated May 1972.



ANNEX 9
Attachment 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Charter of the Awash Valley Authority
WHEREAS, the promotion of the economic development of Our
Empire requires that the maximum use be made of its natura:l resources; and
WHEREAS, the Awash Valley possesses natural resources which
require orderly and efficient development; and
WHEREAS, it has appeared expedient to Us to create a special
body to administer and develop the Awash Valley;
NOW, THEREFORE, on the advice of Our Council of Ministers, We
hereby order as follows:
1.        This General Notice may be cited as the "Awash Valley Authority
Charter, 1962".
2.        There is hereby created the Awash Valley Authority (hereinafter
the "AVA") as an autonomous Public Authority of the Imperial
Ethiopian Government (hereinafter the "Government"), to be
governed by the provisions hereof.
3.        (a)  For the purposes of this General Notice, the limits of
the Awash Valley, over which the AVA shall have exclusive
jurisdiction for the purposes set forth herein, shall be
the area comprising the watershed of the Awash Basin, as
geographically defined.
(b) As used herein, the term "Awash River" shalL be deemed
to include all the tributaries thereof and all artificial
means of controlling and diverting the flow of water
which may be constructed within the Awash Valley.
4.        The purpose of the AVA is to administer and develop the natural
resources of the Awash Valley and shall include, without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the following:
(a) to conduct and cause to be conducted surveys of the
Awash Valley resources, either directly or through
the intermediary of other domestic and international
bodies;



ANNZX.9
Attacbment 1
Page 2
(b) to establish plans and programmes for the use and
development of the resources of the Awash Valley;
(c) to co-ordinate the activities of all Government
Ministries and Public Authorities in respect of the use
and development of the resources of the Awash Valley;
(d) to authorize third parties to construct, acquire,
manage, administer and maintain dams, reservoirs,
canals, power houses, power structures, transmission
lines and incidental works in the Awash Valley;
(e) to administer all water and water rights in the
Awash Valley and to control the flow of water of the
Awash River;
(f) to assign waters of.the Awash River for irrigatiorn
and other purposes and to fix and collect fees for
the use of such water and other facilities;
(g) in co-operation with other bodies, to promote,
organize and authorize the establishment of co-
operative and other agricultural and industrial
enterprises in the Awash Valley; and
(h) generally, to do all such things as may be necessrty
to assure the best use and development of the
resources of the Awash Valley.
5.        The AVA shall have separate juridical personality, and, in
particular the capacity:
(a) to contract;
(b) to use and be used in its own name; and
(c) to acquire, own, possess and dispose of property.
6.        In addition to all of the normal powers provided for in Article
5 hereof, the AVA shall have the following extraordinary
powers:
(a) to acquire such real and other property as may be necessary
or convenient for the achievement of its purposes by
expropriation in accordance with the law;



ANNEX 9
Attachment 1
Page 3
(b) to fix fees and charges for the use of water, land and
other facilities subject to its jurisdiction and to use
fees and charges so collected in the carrying out of its
operations in accordance with policies adopted by the
Board of Directors; provided, however, that any surplus
not required for such operations shall be turned over
to the Central Treasury of the Government;
(c) to borrow money in accordance with the law;
(d) to issue regulations relating to the use of water, land
and other facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the
AVA;
(e) in co-operation with appropriate Government Ministries
and Public Authorities, to grant concessions for the use
of land in the Awash Valley for agricultural, industrial
and other purposes;
(f) to receive and administer, as agent of the Government,
international aid and credits;
(g) when so requested, to act as agent for other Government
Ministries and Public Authorities carrying out activities
in the Awash Valley; and
(h) to establish and invest in public companies and to create
subsidiary executive and advisory bodies within the AVA.
7.        The AVA shall ascertain land ownership in the Awash Valley and
all State-owned land shall be transferred to the AVA by the
Ministries and Public Authorities presently holding title thereto.
8.        The AVA shall perform the functions entrusted to it hereunder for
the most efficient and economic development and use of the
resources of the Awash Valley.
9.        Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to affect existing
water rights in the Awash Valley which are embodied in agreements
existing between the users of said water and any Ministry or
Public Authority of the Government.
10.       The AVA shall have an annual budget which shall be approved by
the Board of Commissioners. That portion of said budget which is
not financed by the AVA directly out of its resources shall be
included in the budget of the Government.
11.       The fiscal year of the AVA shall be the fiscal year of the
Government.



ANNEX 9
Attachment 1
Page 4
12.       Within three (3) months of the end of each financial year, the
AVA shall prepare and submit to the Office of the Prime Minister
a report showing the results of operations carried out during
said year.  The AVA shall also at the same time submit a financial
report for the same year to the Ministry of Finance and to the
Office of the Auditor General.
13.       The powers, responsibilities and functions of the AVA provided
for herein shall be vested in the Board of Commissioners
(hereinafter the "Board").
14.       The Board shall be composed of seven (7) members, comprising the
General Manager, one representative each from the Ministries of
Agriculture, Commerce and Industry, Interior and Public Works
and Communications, all of whom shall be appointed by the Minister
of said Ministries, and two (2) members to be appointed by Us.
15.       The Chairman of the Board shall be the representative of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Board shall elect its own Vice
Chairman from among its members. The Vice Chairman shall hold
Office for one (1) year.
16.       (a)  The Board shall be convened under the chairmanship of
the Chairman; provided, however, that the Vice Chairman
shall act as Chairman in the absence of the Chairman;
and provided, further, that in the absence of b7th the
Chairman and Vice Chairman, the members present shall elect
a Chairman.
(b) The Board shall meet at least once each month.
(c) Meetings of the Board shall be convened by the
General Manager by notice to the other Commissioners.
(d) The Chairman shall convene a meeting promptly at any
time if two (2) other Commissioners so request.
(e) Meetings of the Board shall be held at the principal
office of the AVA, unless the members shall otherwise
agree.
17.       (a)  Four (4) members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.



ANNEX 9
Attachment 1
Page 5
(b) All formal decisions of the Board shall require the
affirmative vote of a majority of the members present.
In the case of a tie vote, the Chairman shall have a
second or casting vote. In lieu of requiring the
formal vote on a question before the Board, the Chairman
may ascertain the sense of the meeting unless any member
of the Board present shall require a formal vote.
(c)  Minutes of each meeting of the Board shall be recorded
in such form as the Board may determine; provided,
however, that formal decisions or resolutions of the
Board shall be recorded verbatim.
18.       (a)  the General Manager shall be the Chief Executive Officer
of the AVA, and, subject to the general direction of the
Board, shall direct the management and operations of the
AVA.
(b) The General Manager shall be appointed by Us for such
period as We shall determine.
19.       (a)  The General Manager shall keep the Board currently
informed on matters which require the Board's attention,
and shall provide the Board, as far as possible, with
such data and advice as will facilitate the formulation
of decisions and policies by the Board. The General
Manager may at any time submit to the Board for adoption
drafts or measures or resolutions which in his view are
necessary to make the purpose and policies of the AVA
effective.
(b) The General Manager shall guide and supervise the
administrations and operations of the AVA in accordance
with the provisions hereof and with the decisions of
the Board. He shall employ and dismiss all personnel
and fix their salaries, wages and allowances, and
shall make expenditure in accordance with tlhe budget
and the programmes of the AVA.
(c) The General Manager shall be the principal representative
of the AVA and shall, in this capacity:
(i) represent the AVA in all relations with
other persons, including the Government;
(ii) represent, either personally or through
counsel, the AVA in any legal proceedings
to which the AVA is a party;



ANNEX 9
Attachment 1
Page 6
(iii)  sign, individually or jointly with other
persons, contracts and other agreements concluded
by the AVA, annual reports, correspondence and
other documents of the AVA.
(d)  The General Manager may delegate his power to represent
the AVA, as provided in paragraph (c) of this article
19, to other officials of the AVA upon his own responsibility.
(e) When, in the opinion of the General Manager, delay in
taking action on any matter or in giving a decision
would adversely affect the operations of the AVA, and
it is impossible to convene the Board in time to present
such matter to it, the General Manager shall have full
power to act and give decisions on behalf of the Board,
and such acts and decisions shall have the full
authority of the Board.
20.       The Board may adopt by-laws consistent with the provisions
hereof and may fix the remuneration of its members.
21z       This General Notice shall come into effect on the date of its
publication in the Negarit Gazeta.
Done at Addis Ababa this 23rd day of January, 1962.
Janiuary 16, 1973



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Consultants' Services
1.        AVA would be required to retain a consulting firm to perform
the following duties:
(a) organize and execute all investigations and studies
listed in Annex 4, including employing specialized
consultants whenever necessary;
(b) prepare design drawings and contract documents for
all civil and on-farm works, including any additional
studies or investigation not mentioned in (a) above;
(c) prepare invitations to bid on all contracts, as well
as prequalify bidders if necessary; assist AVA with
bid analysis; and make recommendations on award of
contracts;
(d) supervise all construction and on-farm works and recommend
acceptance of completed works;
(e) prepare specifications, bidding documents, and contract
forms including bid analysis for all equipment and
spare parts to be purchased under the project;
(f) establish and operate an operation and maintenance
organization for the project and train counterpart
staff provided by AVA; such responsibility would -
include operation of earth moving equipment supplied
under the credit and establishing a repair and mainte-
nance workshop;
(g) assist AVA in preparing reports and documents related
to the progress of construction and financing of all
works supervised by the consultants, as required by IDA;
(h) certify all withdrawal applications from the IDA credit;
and
(i) train all Ethiopian counterpart staff.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Tie Schedule
2.        The services described above would be completed by the consultants
in-about 5 years (1973-1978). Investigations prior to final design, design
drawings and contract documents for the main construction contract should be
coxopleted by September 1974 in time to permit commencement of works early in
1975. The operation and maintenance organization would be established one
year before the completion of the main irrigation works in order to become
fully operational concurrently with the anticipated first water delivery to
the- project area.
Personnel
3.        The consultants would provide the Project Manager and all necessary
experts to staff the project field office and carry out the required investi-
gation and studies. On arrival of each expert, AVA would appoint Ethiopian
counterparts to work with, and be trained by, him. Consultants' man-power
requirements 1/ are tentatively estimated as follows:
Project Year:    1      2     3     4      5
Number 1972/73 73/74 74/75 75/76 76/77 77/78 Total
----- -Man-Months-----
Proliect manager, engineer     1       2     12    12    12    12    10       60
Sen4or agriculturalist         1      -      12    12    12    12    10      58
Uinspecified experts 2/        -      -      36    48      -     -     -      84
Engineer                       1      -       -     3    12    12      9     36
Surveyor, engineer             1      2       6     6    12      -     -     26
Lahoratory expert              1      -       -     5    12      7     -      24
Operation & maintenance
engineer                     1      -       -     -     -      8    10     18
On-farm development
s%pecialist                  1      -       -     -     8    12    10      30
336
1/   Suitably qualified counterparts would be provided to all consultants'
experts.
2/   Engineers, agronomist, pedologist, economist, public health specialist,
etc.
February 19, 1973



ANNEX 11
ETHIOPIA
ANIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs
Per Year
1. Equipment
Foreign costs from Annex 7, accrued with local costs
and physical and price contingencies to a total amount of
Eth$1.2 million.
Amortization, 15% of capital costs                     180,000
Repairs, 10% of capital costs                          120,000
2. Salaries and Wages
Project Manager, Engineer                   18,000
Assistant, Engineer                         12,000
Surveyor                                    10,000
Accoun-tant                                 10,000
Storeman                                     8,°000
Water Master                                 8,000
Ditch Riders 3                               6,300
Watch Keepers 2                              4,200
Works Foreman 5                              7,200
Operators - 5 plant operators,
3 assistant operators, 7 drivers       56,300
Regular Labor Force 40 x 12 months          24,o0o
Seasonal Labor 150 x 3 months               22,000     186,000
3. Fuel and Lubricants
Plant - 5 x 1,000 hours x 20 1 per hour = 100,000
Dump Trucks - 2 x 10,000 km x 0.5 1 per km=10,000
Water Trucks - 2 x 5,000 km x 1.01 km   =  10,000
Pickups - 3 x 15,000 km x 0.3 1 per km  =  15,000
Miscellaneous                            =  15 000
at Eth$0.2 per liter                               30,000
Lubricants 10%                                   3,000
4.  Head Office Costs and Miscellaneous                           51,000
Total Operation and Maintenance Costs                  570,000
1/ At full development.
February 6, 1973






ANNEX 12
Page   1
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis
1.        The financial analysis is based on two pro-forma models:
- Model I - 200 ha commercial (cotton) farm
- Model II - 2.5 ha settler farm on the AVA settlement
Assumptions                                  Model I                 Model II
1.  Wage - unskilled labor (Eth$)      1.25 per man-day          1.25 per man-day
2.  Price - seed cotton (Eth$)         500 per m ton A           500 per m ton
3. Yield at full development
- seed cotton (Tons)              3 per ha                 2.5 per ha
14. Water Charge:
Years 4-8 (Eth$)                 300 per ha per           100 per ha per
annum                    annum
Years 9-4o (Eth$)                500 per ha per           100 per ha per
annum                    annum
5.  0 & M Charge (Eth$)                57 per ha per             57 per ha per
annum                    annum
6. Production cost at full
development (Eth$)                688 per ha per           688 per ha per
annum A                  annum  3
7.  Tax rate %                         30 A                      0
8. Borrowing terms:
Short term                        at 10% interest,         N.A.
one year to repay
Medium term                       75% financing at         N.A.
9.5% interest,
1 year grace, 7
years to repay
Other related (but less important) assumptions are given in Table 1.
1  About US$.28 per lb. of cotton lint.
2  Includes management cost and depreciation.  Management at Eth$60
per ha per annum and depreciation at Eth$48 per ha per annum.
/3  Management at Eth$83 per ha per annum and depreciation at
Eth$48 per ha per annum.
4  For income between Eth$30,000 and Eth$150,000 per annum.



ANNEX 12
Page   2
Analysis
2.        Model I:  Table 2 gives the pro-forma income/cash flow statements
for the 200-ha concession. Under the assumptions the farm begins to operate
at a profit from year 1 and by year 10 the net income after taxes is
Eth$36,000 per annum. The financial return on total investment after taxes
is 54%. However, if net revenue is decreased by 10%, the net income after
taxes falls to Eth$18,000. Returns of this magnitude are consiaered a necessarxy
inc:entive to induce concessionaires to go into the remote Middle Awash. The
details of the computation are given in Table 3.
3.        In order to assess the ability of the farmer to pay the proposed level
of water charge under circumstances less favorable than expected, the effect of
three alternative water charges:
(a) Eth$300 per ha per annum
(b)  Eth$400 per ha per annum
(c) Eth$600 per ha per annum
on his income was evaluated (see Table 4). The adverse circumstance explored
was a 10% decrease in gross income. With gross income 10% lower, and water chak7ge
at the proposed level, the farmer's income after taxes drops to Eth$18,o00 per
annum (a 50% decrease). If the water charge were at Eth$300, the income after tax
would be Eth$43,000; with the charge at Eth$400 the income after tax would be
Eth$29,000 per annum.
4.        However, if the water charge were at Eth$600 per ha per annum, the
net farm income would drop to only Eth$3,000. Since a 10% drop in gross income
would be quite possible, a water charge higher than Eth$500 per ha per annum wolld
act as a disincentive. A substantially lower charge (i.e. Eth$400 per ha per
annudm) would involve an unnecessarily high level of subsidy. At the proposed
level (i.e. Eth$300 per ha for the initial five years, and then Eth$500 per ha
for the years beyond) the project cost is recovered fully at 8.5% over 40 years
and the farmer is not making excessive profits.
5.        Cost recovery computations for two alternative water charges are as
follows:
(a)  at Eth$400 per ha per annum throughout.  The
cost is recovered at 7% in 40 years; and
(b) at Eth$300 per ha per annum for the initial
five years and then at Eth$600 per ha per
annum subsequently, total cost is recovered
at 9% over 40 years.
The proposed water charge is based on the above considerations.
6.        Model II:  Table 6 gives the farm budget for the settler.  The analysis



ANNEX 12
Page   3
was less elaborate in this case. Two alternative water charges were evaluated:
(a) Eth$100 per ha per annum throughout; and
(b) Eth$300 per ha per annum throughout.
Ulnder alternative "(a)", the settler farm nets a cash income of Eth$1,469 per
year. On a per ha basis this is about Eth$600 per ha. On a per capita basis
(assuming a family size of five persons), this anounts to Eth$294 per annum
which compares very well with the per capita income of Eth$81 per annum in the
subsistence sector.  Under alternative "(b)", the cash income per farm falls to
Eth$969 per annum or a per capita income of Eth$194 per annum.  Even though this
compares well with the per capita income in the subsistence sector, the settler
is not well protected against adverse shortfalls. For example, if gross income
declines by 10%, the settler's cash income declines to Eth$656 per farm or
Eth$131 per capita. A water charge at Eth$100 per ha per annum is, therefore,
proposed for the settler as although a higher charge between these two figures
would still result in a substantial increase in income, it is considered that
the Afar settler would need the incentive proposed during t]he early years of the
project.






ETHIOPIA
MIIARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis (Basic Assuitlons)
Year*    2                        4                                    7                      9           1D         11         12         13          14       15i30
Cotton
With Project1
Concession   (200 ha)
Lend Available (ha)                      50         100         200         200         200         200         200        200         200         200        200          200         200       200
Seed Cotton (ton/ha)                      2.0         2.1         2.2         2.3         2.4         2.5         2.6        2.8         3.0          3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0       3.0
Total Productqon (ton)                  100         210         440         460         480         500         520        560         600         600        600          600         600       600
Gross Revenue.& (Eth$ '000)              50         105         220         230         240         250         260        280         300         300         300         300         300       300
Total Production CostraEth$'000)         26          53         106         108         109         110         lit        114         116         116         116         116         116       116
Not Revenue (Eth$'000)                   24          52         114         122         131         140         149        166         184         184         184         184         184       184
Without Proiect I/
Concession   (300 ha)
Land Available (ha)                      50         100         150         200         300         300         300        300         300          300        300        300         300        300
Seed Cotton (tonlha) W                    2.0         2.0         2.1         2.1         2.2         2.3         2.4        2.4         2.3          2.2        2.1        2.0         1.9         1.8
Total Productign (ton)                  100         200         315         420         660         690         720        720         690          660        630        600         570        540
Gross Revenuet.(Eth$'000)                50         100         157         210         330         345         360        360         345          330        315        300         285         270
Total Production CostNEth$'000)          26          52          79         105         160         161         163        163         161          160        158        156         154         152
Set kevenue (Eth$'000)                   24          48          78         105         170         184         197        197          184         170        157        144         131         118
1/The size of concessions "with project" is 200 ha; "without project" they are
300 ha because of lower profitability without flood protection drainage and
reliable watr supplies.  A direct comparison between the two cases is not
attempted In this table because of this size difference.
2/At Eth$500 per ton.                     
3/Tatal Production Coat - (400 x Area under Cotton) SF (60 x Total Production).
Eth$400 per ha is cost of land preparation, cultivation,
and other fixed costs; Eth$60 per ton is the cost of
harvesting and other variable costs.  Costs are rounded.
See Table 2, knnex 13, for details of production cost.
4/Yield increases from 2.0 ton/ha tn Year 2 to 2.4 in Year 8 but after Year 9 decreases
due to absence of tile drainage.
*Development work only in Year 1.



AX122
AKIMAJLA S       U  SGfT<H    MCT
-finmcbll Anloit. of 200 h  Cotton T7r
YTo            1         2        3         4         5         6          7         6         9        10         11        12-0 
---------- -~-~---------------- ------------ Eth$'000 ---- ______________-_______-------------____-ya
7 SC011  STArENEi
..o..  b                                                        -        50       105       220       230       240        250       260       280       300        300       300
L       (7 Production Cost-       2
(Ilo.ding doprelat 2bo       )                         2        35        66        127       129       130       131       132        135       137       137        137
liot R-v-non                                            (2)       15        39        93       101       110        119       128       145       163        163       163
Los.   sOcotlo  and lIolsto-oo Chornol- -                               -                    -          9        11         LI        11        11        11         11        11               t43
Motor Chargo-4                                                    -         -          60        60        60        60        60        too       100       100        100             1,64
Irtero-t Cost
-  hort -or-A'                                          -        -                    -
- odlom te.r/                                           -        4          5          5         5         5          4         2
'o-ne   bfor. too                                      (2)      11        33          28        27        35        46         57        34        52         52        52
Plrornioo for Ic-   T7/                                        -        -         -          -         -         1o         14        17        10        16         16        16               308
lrcon Aft-r Tl                                                (2)      11        41          28        27        25        32        40         24        36        36         36
Pluu: hpoc1s-tiono/                                                     6         a          10        10        10        10         10        10        10        10
CASH FLOW 1ATETE3 T
Sources
- Inco_o fnosot        rcos                                        (2)      17        49         38        37         35        42        50        34        46         46
F.- er'. E q.ity/                                                9        8         15
totnoslon8
shor- tert                                                       9        -            3
- osdlo, tort                                          19       19        37
Totol lo1 roos                                                  25       53       101          41        37        35         42        50        34        46        46
IoVootoo t Isn o"7s qoschnery. oqoipnte
sod Ooildiog -                                                 25       25        50
-h*bort                                                -        -          9          -          3
-todlnter-m                                            -        12        15          15       1I         12         6
Rplico-t,t of ooohiory-                                                                                                     20         10
T-otl U.                                                        25       37        74          15        10        12        26        10
Ctih S- .us  (Soflot)
Ars-cl                                                           1       16        27          26        19        23        16        40         34        46        46
Cuoul-itv                                                        1       17        44          70        89       112       128       168        202       248       294
i/Frot Tobls 1, A-   12.
2/Prop Oohh  L, Aooso 12 pl-c   ngarrt soo et.   o lho fIrst two y              lb. rho Pn    t
cc_i to $8(2,000 nod Eth$9,0o00                      F-ocoivoiy   Orcn yost 3 onsord. it 15 10.   or
-roductiot coot (Kth$12,000 at fUIl doeItop t).
I/At Hth$57npsr ha pot srom  ad  L. poyablo - So-n  s Ind  e             onion  so.
±oAt  1th6300 por ha psr sno  fto   ths 4th yrn  dftn  the Introducci_o  of   iptior
sod r-lod to 0th$500 por ho f-on Y.o- 9 onord.
5/At 107 pea  stro-  pritipl and iHtnrost r-p.id io th  follori g year.
7/At 74'  "s1d  ov-r Hve yer; 75% fio jnog towad.
_/At 301 fHo  loos, bhoeot  Etb$30,000 od )1503,0H0; sod  Ct 20% bhol   Eh$30,000; 
too Eor ItttIal 5 YTos.
A/oaoond st 251 of iv--st-n-s to fo-t tcktoy  sqol..ot ad  o-f-   dtetloptost
ioclodltg.huldIogs   Alto, tooh coocthoboon to Carwr lot yeers sprratig los.
Th/s notlorod coot is Eth$5OH  pr ho.
lA/oo..osd that Eth$150 por h  of total in-stst is fo for                n-rhiosry to bh  rpl_cd
pt otprtotblOty 6 yest ittorval.
TtflioitAl tAnoarot cost
24/Ion fo  reu1p Int  ond  -ochicry doprcsittiot it topotd on a   Mtrright-llts bhai.
tso  onosso. Ilif  of fHvo y.s-; for boildiooo. l1nd dotoIp_nt the o-orso litfe
is-c-Id 15   tt  Y-"'



[st@~~~~~ ~                                                                    01                            0.
IS g¢|a                        | 11.rr                      W      '                   -      E*1  
,,,1l           '  3  '   Si32i107      3   n       7  3  r    S ;  @  7   |          §  3 11703C  3 
ii~~                             ~                                  1 '500. ,0 0
1      0 I1 js i ftIl  0                      0    11000
-  _  *        _ -'010  0                     1-0    0Go0                    
-* _                                                                        a        4 e   ,o     
ZI xai



ETHIOPIA
AMIBAUA IRRIGATION PROJECI
M4DEL 1 1200 ha  rottaon Farma
financial Analyi  of 20n ha  Catf-nn Far,,
Basic                                          Gross Revenue Decreased bv 10%                                               Cross Revenue Increased by 102 _
Estimate            Basic                        Li                      /2                         3                        Basic                           /5
Estimare         Alternative-I          Alternutive-II          Alteruative-Il                         Entimate           Alternative-IV
-------E----------_---_---------------_------------- __----- =--th$ '000--------------------------------------------------------------------
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
of Income at full Develop-
ment (Year 12)
Gross Revenue                                   300                 270                270                    270                      270                                   330                 330
Less: Production Cost                           137                 137                137                    137                      137                                   137                 137
-     Net Revenue                               163                 133                133                    133                      133                                   193                  193
Less: Water Charge                              100                 100                 60                     80                      120                                   100                  100
Operation and Mainte-
nance Charge                              11                 11                  11                     11                       11                                   11                   11
Income Before Taxes                        52                 22                  62                     42                        2                                   82                   82
/4
Provision for Taxes                              16                   4                 19                     13                         .4                                  25
Income After Taxes
(Basic)                              _                   18                 43                     29                        3                                    57_bL
Index (Basic Income - 100)                      100                 58                 139                     93                       10                                   184                  136
!/Water charge at Eth$300 per ha per annum; rest at the same level.
_/WIter charge at Eth$400 per ha per annum; rest at the same level.
3/Water charge at Eth$600 per ha per annum; rest at the same level.
i/Tacome tax at 20% up to Eth$30,000, and 301 between Eth$30,000
and Eth$150,000.
VrIncome taxc increased from 302 to 40%.



ETHIOPIA
AMBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Recovery of Cost
1f                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Revenue from:
Project Cout-                              2/                        ReeufoTotal Revenue                                                          Revenue from Income Tax
Concessions           Settlement-            Operation and Haintenance Charge
---------- ---------- --------- -------    -- ----------------h-  -00 ------ --Eth$'000 --------- ---------- ---------- --------- ---------- ---------- ---------
1                    2,200
2                    3,000
3                   12,100
4                   14,000
5                    7,000                                                                                  460                                 460
6                      570                                                                                  570                               2,970
7                      570                        2,400                   200                               570                               3,170
8                      570                        2,400                   200                               570                               3,170
9                      570                        2,400                   200                               570                               3,170                             400
10                      570                        2,400                   200                              50                                3,170                             480
11                      570                        2,400                   200                               570                               3,170                             680
12                      570                        4,000                   200                               570                               4,770                             400
13                      570                        4,000                   200                               570                               4,770                             640
14                      570                        4,000                   200                               570                               4,770                             640
15-40                    570                        4.000                   200                               570                               4,770                             540
Present Value
(at 10X)            33.981                                                                                                                   26,851
(at  7%)            37,799                                                                                                                   37,785
Recovery Index (ex-
cluding revenue
from Income Tax):
(at 10%)              79%
(at  7X)             100%
lAI1 costs except (s) those for farm machinery and operation and
maintenance equipeent, the depreciation of which is included in
production cost, (b) the cost of feasibility studies for the second-
stage development et Bolhamo/Angelele, (c) 301 of the costs of all
roads since they would also serve non-project users, (d) price con-
tingencies as provisions would be made to increase charges in line with
inflation, (e) the cost of tile drainage which if found necessary, vould
be recovered through a special assessment.  Operation and naintenonce
costs would also be subject to recovery over the life of this project and
are presently estimated at Eth557 per ha per annum.
2/At Eth$300 per ha per annum during years 7 to 11; at Eth$500 per ha per
annum during years 12 to 40.
2/At Eth$100 per ha per annum through project life.
April 16, 1973



ANNEX 12
Table 6
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis Model II - 2.5-ha Cotton Farm on the Settlement
Alternatives
I-/7        I1-/8
Land under Cultivation (ha)                        2.5           2.5
Seed Cotton Yield/l (ton per ha)                   2.5           2.5
Production (ton)                                   6.3           6.3
Gross Revenue/2 (Eth$)                           3,125         3,125
Less:
Production Cost/3 (Eth$)                    1,495        1,495
of which family labor/4                     (438)         (438)
AVA Management Charge/5                       206           206
Operation & Maintenance Charge/6               143           143
Net Income before Water Charge                   1,281         1,281
Water Charge                                     250           750
Net Income after Water Charge                    1,031           531
Plus Income from family labor                    438           438
NET CASH INCOME:                         1,469           969
Net Cash Income per ha  (Eth$)                     588           387
Net Cash Income per person/9 (Eth$)                294           194
/1 At full development - year 10
/2 At Eth$500 per ton.
/3 At Eth$550 per ha at the assumed yield level of
2.5 ton per ha, including depreciation charge
of Eth$48 per ha.
/4 140 man-days per ha valued at Eth$1.25 per man-day.
/5 At 14% of production cost.
/6 At Eth$57 per ha settler.
/7 Water charge at Eth$100 per ha per annum.
18 Water charge at a rate of Eth$300 per ha per annum.
/9 Assuming five persons per family.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices for Cotton
Present Production and Yields
1.        The main feature of Ethiopia's cotton industry is a shortage of
local supply. Textile mills with a total spinning capacity of about 32,000
tons (about 180,000 spindles), obtain about 40% of their cotton requirements
from imports. During 1970, 20,000 tons of cotton lint were consumed in
Ethiopia, of which 8,700 tons were imported. In addition, about 2,600 tons
of synthetic and regeneXated artificial fibers were imported. As shown
below, imports of synthetics have been declining while imports of cotton
have increased.
Year                   1967       1968      1969       1970
---------ton ---------
Imports
Cotton Lint              2,686      5,474     5,742      8,700
Synthetic                7,695      9,524     5,248      2,609
The majority of cotton is grown under rainfed conditions with lint yields
averaging about 0.4 ton per ha and under irrigation about 1.6 ton per ha.
In 1969/70, the area under cotton was between 83,000 and 100,000 hectare
producing about 36,000 tons of seed cotton.  No major plans exist for sub-
stantiallyincreasing cotton production in areas other than the Awash Valley.
However, cotton production has been growing at about 4 percent per year which
is expected to continue.
Price Structure
2.        In 1971, the average price of imported cotton lint, CIF Djibouti
was US$0.31 per lb. (see world price trends in Table 2 of this Annex).
Additional charges applied to arrive at the FOB factory price were:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Eth$ per ton
Commission, taxes, duties /1                           200 - 300
Transport, Djibouti to Addis Ababa                      80 - 100
Total                                       280 - 400
/1  The following taxes and duties are applicable to cotton imported by
manufacturers.
- Customs duties      Eth.$ 0.1 per kg net
- Transaction tax           12%
- Municipality tax           1%
Thus, landing and transport costs add US$0.06 to 0.08 per lb.
to the price of imported cotton delivered at Addis Ababa, making total
costs of imports in Addis Ababa about US$0.38 per lb. of lint.
In 1970/71, ginneries were paying producers in the Awash Valley
an average Eth$670 per ton of seed cotton at the farm-gate and incurring
an-additional Eth$10 per ton in transport costs to bring the seed cotton
to Addis Ababa. Assuming that one ton of seed cotton yields 0.35 tons of
cotton lint and that value of seed covers ginning and baling costs, this
represents a payment of US$0.38 per lb. for locally produced lint, which is
about the same as the import price (US$0.38) on the same basis. As world
pri'ces return to more normal levels the domestic price of cotton is expected
to move with it.
Estimated Demand for Cotton
3.        Current per capita consumption of cotton and artificial fibers
in Ethiopia is 1.3 kg per person of which about 60% is for cotton (0.78 kg).
Present consumption is roughly 19.5 thousand tons. Assuming an income
elasticity 2/ of 0.62 and a per capita income growth rate of 2.5%, the per
capita consumption of cotton in 1985 is estimated at 1 kg per capita. 3/
With a population of 36 million by 1985, total demand at that time would
be 36,000 tons of cotton lint. This assumes that cotton will maintain its
share of the total fiber market in Ethiopia. In the Ethiopian market,
however, the demand is likely to be for coarse fiber and, if cotton is
available, it could substitute (as it has been doing over the last four
years) for synthetic fibers, thereby increasing its share of the market.
2/ Various estimates put this magnitude between 0.622 to 0.7; USDA,
Economic Research Service, World Demand Prospects for cotton in 1980,
Washington, D.C.
3/ Present per capita consumption, growing at 1.6% (2.5 x 0.62) for 13
years.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
4.        In 1970, about 12,500 tons 1/ of cotton lint were produced in
Ethiopia. Assuming that production, excluding production in the project
area, would grow at about 4% per annum in line with the trend of the last
ten years, the domestic cotton output in 1985 would be 22,000 tons. This
leaves a gap of about 14,000 tons, about three quarters of which may be
filled by the project. As far as can be foreseen, project production could
be entirely absorbed by the domestic market. Table 1 gives recent trends
in world cotton production and Table 2 gives recent trends in cotton prices.
January 16, 1973
1/ Assuming a ginning outturn of 0.35, or 35,800 x 0.35 - 12,530 tons.






ETHIOPIA
ANNZX 13
ABI3ARA IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                    Table  1
Recent Trends in the World Cotton Production,
Utilization and Trade
(million bales)-/
Average
Year Beginning                  1958/59-
August 1                      1962/63     1963/64      1964/65      1965/66      1966/67      1967/68     1968/69      1969/70      1970/71      1971/72
(Estimated)
Consumption
United States                      8.7          8.6         9.2          9.5          9.5          9.0         8.2          8.0          8.1         8,0
Western Europe                     7.5          7.4          7.2          7.3         7.1          6.7          6.7          6.8         6.6         6.4
Japan                              3.0          3.2         3.4          3.2          3.3          3.4          3.5         3.4          3.2         3.4
Other (excl. c.p.e.)              12.1         13.8        14.5         14.6         15.1         15.9         16.5        17.2         17.4        18.0
Centrally Planned Economies       15.1        14.7         15.8         16.3         17.3         17.9        18.0         18.2         18.7        19.2
World                           46.4        47.7         50.1         50.9         52.3         52.9         52.9        53.6         54.0        55.0
Production
United States                     14.0        15.3         15.2         14.9          9.9          7.2        11.0         10.0         10.3        10.3
Other (excl. c.p.e.)              19.0         22.2        23.0         23.7         22.8         24.0         26.5        25.8         23.4        27.8
Centrally Planned Economies       13.5         12.9        13.9         14.8         16.2         16.6        16.1         16.0         17.9        18.1
World                          46.5         50.4        52.1         53.4         48.9         47.8        53.6         51.8         51.6        56.2
Area (million acres)
tlnited States                    14.7         14.2        14.1         13.6          9.6          8.0        10.2         11.1         11.2        11.5
Other (excl. c.p.e.)              46.9        49.8         50.7         50.1         49.0         49.5        50.4         51.2         48.5        50.2
Centrally Planned Economies       18.2        16.7         17.3         17.8         18.3         18.8        18.6         18.8         19.5        19.7
Wdrld                           79.8        80.7         82.1         81.5         76.9         76.3        79.2         81.1         79.2        81.4
YieldV/(lbs. per acre)
United States                   453.6        517          517          527          480         447          516          433          438         438
Other (excl. c.p.e.)             193.6       214          217          223          221         232          251          241          230         265
Centrally Planned Economies    351.7         369          384          399          421         420          415          406          439         439
World                          279.8       299          303          313          302          301         323          306          312         331
Exports
United States                      5.0         5.7          4.1          2.9          4.7          4.2         1.7          2.8          3.7         3.2
Other (excl. c.p.e.)               9.0        10.4         10.6         11.6         10.7         10.3        11.6         12.4         11.2        12.4
Centrally Planned Economies        1.8          1.8         2.1          2.4          2.5          2.6         2.2          2.3          2.8         2.8
World                           15.8        17.9         16.8         16.9         17.9         17.1        16.5         17.5         17.7        18.4
Imports
Japan                              3.1         3.2          3.4          3.1          3.6          3.5         3.1          3.5          3.7         3.6
Western Europe                     7.0          7.2         6.5          6.8          6.8          6.5         6.5          6.1          6.o         6.o
Other (excl. c.p.e.)               2.8          3.3         3.3          3.4          3.8         3.9          3.6          4.1          4.5         4.6
Centrally Planned Economies        3.3         4.0          4.3          4.2          4.0          3.9         3.9          4.4          4.1         4.4
World                           16.2        17.7         17.5         17.5         18.2         17.8        17.1         18.1         18.3        18.6
3/
S tocks-
United States                      8.0        11.2         12.4         14.3         16.9         12.5         6.5          6.5          5.8        4.3V,
Other Net Exporters                3.7          3.8         3.8          4.2          4.5         4.7           5.3         6.8          6.8         5.41
Net Imports (excl. c.p.,.)-/       5.9         5.8          6.8          6.2          5.8          6.3         6.9          6.4          6.0         5 7r
Centrally Planned Economies        3.1         2.5          3.0          3.3          3.5          3.7         3.4          3.2          2.9         3.4..
World                           20.7        23.3         26.0         28.0         30.7         27.2        22.1         22.9         21.5         19.0
Centrally Planned Economies
Exports to                         1.7         2.5          2.5          2.5          2.2          1.9         2.1          2.7          2.4        n.a.
Imports from                       .3           .2           .3           .6           .8          1.0         0.8          0.7          o.6        n.a.
Net exports to                   1.4          2.3         2.2          1.9          1.4         0.9          1.3          2.0          1.8        n.a.
1! A bale of cotton equals 478 lbs.
2!  The yield figures may be slightly different from those obtained by dividing the production figures by the area figures shotm above,
due to rounding.
3/ August 1 of first year shown.
4/  Stocks on August 1, 1972 are estimated as follows (in million bales):  United Stctes 3.3; other net exporters 6.4; net importers 6.4;
centrally planned countries 3.9; and world total 20.0.
S/ Including India and afloat.
n. a. - not available
Source: International Cotton Advisory Comittee, Cotton World Statistics. verious issues.
January 16, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AMIDBARA RRICLATION PROJECT
RECENT TRENDS IN WORLD COTTON PRICES - CIF QUOTATIONS AT LIVERPOOL
(US cents per lb.).
Year Beginning August 1
1965/66     1966/67      1967/68     1968/69      1969/70      1970/71      1971/72
United States    Orleans/Texas MI"                   26.1        25.1         27.5         26.6        26.3         29.7         35.9
United States    Memphis SM 1-1/16"                  29.3        28.7         33.8         30.4        29.2          31.8        36.6
United States    California SM 1-3/32"              33.4         n.a.         39.8        33.9         31.3          33.3        38.8
Mexico           SM 1 -1/16"                         28 3         29.3  /     31.9         28 9        29.3          33.1        38.2
Brazil           Sao Paolo Type 5, 1-1/32"           25:0  /     24.8         27.8         24:5  /     24.7 31       30.3 /      34.8
Pakistan 1       289 F Punjab S. G                   28.0         26.0        26.3         26.1 2      27.8          31.3        34.8
Turkey           Ismir St. I White, 1-1/16" RG       28.8        28.3         31.5         29.1        ?7.4          30.7        36.9
Syria            SM 1-1/16"                          n .a.       28.2         32.2         30.6        28.4          31.1        38.8
Iran             SM 1-1/16"                          28.1        29.0         32.0 -/     30.1 g       28.2          31.4        38.5
Nicaragua        SM 1-1/16"                          27.1        27.6         30.4         27.4  '     27.3          31.0        36.0
Greece           SM 1-1/16"                          29.1        28.9  /      31.4         31.4        28.4          31.3        38.7
Uganda  /        B.P. 52                             31.9        32.0         36.7         36.0        31.2          33.9 V      40.2
USSR             SM 1-1/16"                          29.0        30.0         33.2         30.4        30.7          33.0        38.2
India  /         Bengal Desi Choice                  25.9        21.8         24.1  /      26.6        27.4          31.9        30.1
Peru             Tanguis Type 3                      34.0         39.0        37.9         32.6        32.9          38.5        44.2
Peru             Prima No. 1, 1-9/16"                41.2  /     43.9         47.7         48.1        48.o         47.4         49.3
Sudan y          G 5 L                               38.9        33.9         35.2         37.7        38.7         38.8 /       39.6
Sudan            G 5 S                               43.8        38.2         40.7 g       44.3        44.0         45.2         46.1
UAR              Dendera F.G.                        39.6        40.4         44.7         49.3        49.3         48.5         55.2
UAR              Menoufi F.G.                        49.8        51.3         55.8         62.5        63.2         61.2         64.9
n.a.  - not available
Averages for eleven months.                                                                                                            >
$  Averages for less than twelve monLhs (or for less than eleven months for 1970/71 prices).
2   Frco  1967/68 on, shipment via Cape.
Source: International Cotton Advisory Camuittee, Cotton - World Statistics, various issues.
January 19, 1973



ANNEX 14
Page   1
ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The project comprises three parts:
(a) AVA settlement - 2,000 ha
(b)  Research Station - 400 ha
(c)  Commercial farms of 200 ha average - 7,600 ha
The main crop now grown in the area is cotton. Under present and expected
price/yield conditions it is likely to be the main crop in the project area.
High value crops such as vegetables, fruit and bananas can be grown in the
area and are likely to be more profitable than cotton, provided the re-
quisite marketing skills and outlets are available. The contiguous Melka
Sadi area having been leased to a partly foreign-owned local company
possessing such market outlets and skills and intending to grow high-value
crops, farmers in the project area may profit in future from this example
and the experience gained. However for the project analysis the conservative
assumption has been made that high-value crops would not be grown.  The
analysis is based on cotton only. It therefore represents the minimum return
possible from the project. If high value crops are grown, the economic re-
turns would be substantially higher.
2.        The economic analysis assumes a uniform cropping pattern on the
entire 10,000 ha. While this assumption is valid for the concessions it is
not quite appropriate for the settlement and the research station, for which
lower yield levels have been assumed. However, this will influence the re-
sults from the analysis only marginally and so the difference is covered in
the sensitivity analysis.
3.        Tables 1, 2 and 3 give the underlying assumptions.  The major ones
are:
Cotton
h-ith Project   Without Project
1. Area Planted (ha)                               10,000            5,000 A
2. Area harvested (ha)                             10,000            4,000
3. Yield (seed cotton) (tons per ha)
Initial                            2.0                2.0
Final                              3.0                2.4,reducing tq1
by year 1512
L Due to losses from flooding and/or irregularities in
the water supply system.
L:j Due to the absence of tile drainage.



ANNEX 14
Page   2
Cotton   (Cont'd.)
With Project     Without Proj e
4.  Years to full development                           9                  7
5.  Price cif Djibouti (us$ per lb lint)              0.26               0.26
6.  Shadow wage rate (Eth$ per day)                   0.50               0.50
4.        In the subsistence sector, the average per capita product is Eth$80.
With the underenmployment that exists in this sector, it is assumed that 160 days
are worked annually, therefore labor has been ahadow priced at Eth$0.50 per map
day.
Economic Rate of Return
5.        Based on these assumptions the economic rate of return is estimated
as1:6% (Table 4).  The sensitivity of the ra'te of return to different assumpttons
on.costs and prices was also made:
Alternative                          Rate of Return
(a)  Investment eost increased by 10%                     14
(b)  Gross revenue decreased by 10%                       13
(c)  Both of the above                                    if
(d)  Shadow wage rate equals market wage rate             13



ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA 7RRIGATION PROJECT
Ecoonmtc Analysis (Basic A-.u.ptieoe)
Dtffseoe
bet-sa vith
.adp s4thoot
at WIl
1J,,,,     2           3     -    4                    6          7            B           9           10           11           12           13           14            15                        day i_elgst
WmIt PBOJECT
Load Av-il-blo (ha)                 2,500      2,500       2,500       2,500     8,000    10,000     10,000       10,000      1D,000       10,000       10,000       10,000       10,000       10,000       10,000          10.000          5,000
Seed Cotott  (tose/ha)                 2.0         2.1         2.2         2.3       2.4       2.5        2.6          2.8          3.0         3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0             3.0            1.2
101.1 Prodeetjqo- (toe)             3,250      4,200       4,950       3,750    19,200    25,000     26,000       280,000      30,000      30,000       30.000       30.000       30.000       30.000           030,00                     Z2,800
Gross 4venu_X(2thS 000)             1,625      2,100       2,475       2,875      9,600    12,500    13,000       14,000       15,000      15,000       15,000       15,000       15,000       15,000       15,000          15,000         11,400
Total Prnd..tios Co.t-AEth$-OOO)    1,195      1,252       1,297       1,345     4,352     5,500      5,560        5,680        5,800       5,800        5,800        5,800        5,800        5,800        5,800           5,800          2,868
Net Ravenuy  (Eth$'000)              430         648       1,178       1,530     5,248     7,000      7,440        8,320        9,200       9,200        9,200        9,200        9,200        9,200        9,200           9,200          8,532
Net tRoe-. por h.                   172        339         471         612       656       700        744          832          920         920          920          920          920          920          920             920            786
WTSRODT PROJECT
Lond A&.lable (ha)                  2,500      3,000       3,500       4,000     4,500     5,000      5,000        5,000        5,000       5,000         5,000       5,000        5,000        5,000        5,000           5,000
Se d Cotton (toes/bA)                  2.0         2.1         2.2         2.3       2.3       2.3        2.4          2.4          2.4          2.3          2.2         2.1          2.0          1.9          1.8             1.8
Tot-l Prodooti?4/(toeo)             3.250      5,040       6,160       7,360      8,280    9,200      9,600        9,600        9,600       9,200         8,800       8,400        8,000        7,600        7.200           7.200
Gross R4ven-  (EthS'OOO)            1,625      2,520       3,080       3,680      4,140    4,600      4,800        4,000        4,800       4,600        4,400        4,200        4,000        3,800        3,600           3,600
Total ProdootiOn Costl2EtWS'OOO)    1,445      1,802       2.120       2,442      2,747    3,052      3,076        3,076        3,076        3,052        3,028        3.004        2,980        2,956        2,932          2,932
Nlt  oee.. (8th$'000)                 180        718         960       1,238      1,393    1,548      1,724        1,724        1,724        1,548        1,372       1,196         1,020         844          668             668
Not faeou  ptr ha                    72        239         274         309        310      310        345          345          345          310          274          239          204          169          134             134
/Production - Yteld x Area. D1..g initi*l yaes 1. 2,  d 3, it is saaoed that havested  rsa
.ill bh 1*.  than plauted  re. d. to losses fro; floods sd puMiog it-ffitcencitss   Those los.
.ill red.eo over ti-s  The area Ios.s.  ea .a.-ad to be 0.65, .8, aed 0.9 of planted seas i
Yse- 1, 2 nd 3, rtsaertively.
2/At ethS500 per toe of seod cotto.
I/Total Productitn Cost ftc. Table 2 - (eth1400 x Areo  oda- cotton) + (Eth$60 a toes of se-d cotton
produc4d); the adjustetnt fot shad  price of -askillad labor is od  In Table 4A,kAaosx 14.
YEs.0 0* "f_t_tsl/  except thot the ratio of hsted to plooted area iL asuad to bh 0.65 for
year I and 0.8 for yeax 2 aed oW  rd.
/S_ as "ffwtante 1l" except for a nt dditi,.nil pping. cost of EthS100 par ha per yer. Th. c.-.c t
p=ping cost I. EthS120 petr ha sd i. astd to decrease to Eth$80 per ha.  As averab  of thses tee
is Used is th  eoeptatioss.



ANNEX 14
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
AMIRARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Annual Production Cost of Cotton
Eth $ per ha
Yield in m ton per ha2/                3.02/
Cost of Production
Land Preparation                    53
Planting                            17
Weeding, etc                        58
Manuring                            94
Irrigating                          31
Pest and Disease                   115
Harvesting                         1801/
Post Harvest                        32
Total                          580
of which Labor (Eth$)        175
(man/days)    140
1/   At full development
2/   Seed cotton
3/  At Eth$60 per ton of seed cotton harvested



ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Net Cash Flow and Cost Structure without Project and without Tile Drainagel
Costs
Project       Major       On-Farm Develop-       Additional Diainage       Operation and          Productiorr       Yields        Gross            Net Cash
Year        Works2/      ment Cost3.               Network4             Maintenance Cost-        Cost6/           ton/ha        Revenue-7/        Flow
-------------------------------------------------------------------_-- Eth$'000 --------                -      -       -      -      -       -      -
1            500             200                                               100                 687             2.0          1,625              138
2            900              200                                               125                917             2.1          2,520              378
3            900              200                                               150              1,108             2.2          3,080              722
4            900              200                       300                     180               1,300             2.3         3,680              800
5            900             200                        300                     190              1,494             2.3          4,140            1,056
6            900              250                       400                     200               1,689             2.3         4,600            1,161
7                                                       250                     210              1,886             2.4          4,800            2,454
8                                                       250                     220               1,897             2.4         4,800            2,433
9                                                       250                     230              1,906             2.4          4,800            2,414
10                                                       250                     240               1,912            2.3          4,600            2,198
11                                                       250                     250               1,917            2.2          4,400            1,983
12                                                       250                     250               1,920             2.1         4,200            1,780
13                                                                               250               1,922             2.0         4,000            1,828
14                                                                               250               I,922             1.9         3,800            1,628
15-20                                                                               250               1,922             1.8         3,600            1,428
l/This alternative assumes  (a) that only 5,000 hectares will be planted at full development;
(b) that yields will increase initially to 2.4 tons per ha by year 7
but will decline to 1.8 tons per ha by year 15, due to poor drainage; and
(c) the farmer will incur pumping costs.
2/Land development, pump installation, land clearing, levelling, drainage and irrigation network, etc.
is estimated at Eth$2,000 per ha. About 2,500 ha are already developed; 2,500 ha will be developed.
3/On-farm investment in machinery, equipment and farm structure at Eth$500 per ha.
4/Additional drainage required in about nine years.
5/For operating and maintaining the distribution and surface drainage network at Eth$50 per ha.
J/From Table 1, Annex 14 with unskilled labor priced at Eth$0.50 per man day instead of the market
rate of Eth$1.25 per man day.
7/From Table 1, Annex 14.



ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Retur-n - Cotton hnlv
Wi thout
With Project                                     Proltect                                        sensitivitv Analysis - :ncreental  et Cash Fiow
Project Co at      On-Farm          Produc.Wion      Gross         Net             Net           Incremental       Investment         Gross Revenue    Investment Cost Increased    Unskilled L-bor
and  &HV    Development          Co.             Revenue       Cs              Cash          Net Cash         Cost In-            Decreased         by 10% Gross Revenue            at Market Wage
Year         an_6__           Dvlo7n Cos" !_                      Reven         Flow (A)        F1ow4B)        Flow .           creased by 10%       by 10%           Decreased by 107,                   Rate
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1ETHS'O00-------------------------------                ---      -_______________________________-___---__
I              2,200                              1,063           1,625       1i,638)            138         (1,776)             (1,996)          (1,938)                  (2,158)                    (2,038)
2              3,000                              1,063           2,100       (1,963)            378         (2,341)             (2,641)          (2,551)                  (2,851)                    (2,603)
3             12,100            1,500             1,063           2,475      (12,188)            722        (12,910)            (14,270)         (13,157)                 (14,517)                  (13,172)
4              14,000           2,500             1,063           2,875      (14,688)             800       (15,488)            (17,138)         (15,775)                 (17,425)                  (15,750)
5               7,000           1,000             3,405           9,600       (1,805)          1,056         (2,861)             (3,661)          (3,821)                  (4,621)                    (3,698)
6                 570                             4,252          12,500        7,678           1,161          6,517               6,460            5,267                    5,210                      5,467
7                 570                             4,252          13,000        8,178           2,454          5,724               5,667            4,424                    4,367                      4.674
8                 570                             4,252          14,000        9,178           2,433           6,745              6,688            5,345                     5,288                     5,695
9               2,470                             4,252          15,000        8,278            2,414          5,864              5,617            4,364                     4,117                     4,814
10               2,470                             4,252          15,000        8,278           2,198          6,080               5,833            4,580                    4,333                      5,030        -
11               2,470                             4,252          15,000        8,278           1,983          6,295               6,048            4,725                    4,548                      5,245
12               2,540                             4,252          15,000        8,208            1,780         6,428               6,174            6,808                     4,674                     5,378
13                 640                             4,252          15,000       10,108            1,828         8,280               8,216            6,780                     6,716                     7,230
14                 640                             4,252          15,000       10,108           1,628          8,480               8,416            6,980                     6,916                     7,430
15                 640                             4,252          15,000       10,108            1,428          8,680              8,616             7,180                    7,116                     7,630
16-40               640                             4,252          15,000       10,108            1,428          8,680              8,616             7,180                    7,116                     7,630
Rate of Return (x)                                                                                                16                 14                13                       11                        13
Covers all costs except (a) farm machinery and equipment, (b) cost of feasibility study for
B6lhamo and Angelele plains, (c) 30% of the cost of all roads since they would also serve
non-project users, (d) price contingeoc'es.
2/On-farm investments in machinery, equipment and farm structures.
3/In the subsistence sector the average per capita product is about Eth$80 per annum with 160
working days per annum, the shadow wage rate for unskilled labor is thus Eth$0.50 per man day.
The market vwae rate is Eth$1.25 per nan day. In addition. the opportunity cost of labor in
the 2,000 ha Afar settlement is taken as smo and an the remaining 8,000 ha a deduction of
about 127. has been made in the non-labor element of production cost for import duties etc..
4/Prom table 3, Annex 14.
3/ A - B.
Apr'l 16, 1973



ETHIOPIA
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction Schedule
FISCAL:           1                   2                    3                   4                    5
1973                1974                1975                1976                 1977                1978
CONSULTANTS                                              /j'/                                                                                -
INVESTIGATIONS AND SURVEYS                  _                       f/* CONSTRUCTION  /    SUPERVISION-  ///                               --         /f
BIDDING DOCUMENTS AND FINAL DESIGN          _    m   _                                  ///   .              /f                 ///                   /f
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO           /"/                              / _
MANAGEMENT (O & M               //f                                                           /                 '//f                 f/f
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO FARMERS               /                     /f-                '                                               - _           / iii
BOLHAMO-ANGELELE FEASIBILITY STUDIES            m   m *   D                  U                                                                        /f
///CONTRACT          "                    / 
BID ISSUE   ~AWARDf/f/f/ff
CONSTRUCTION                            //f                 'A-                  /f                  f/f                 f/f
f //f                     f /f.'               f /f/               f/                  f/f fa    .l.~aOh._.200h.  /f/l
ON-FARM W)HKS | ~~~//f                                  f/f                  f/f                                                         f/f4|t):|t//.T1
BUSH CLEARING                                    'ffff'/'"ff
LINK ROAD                                     i"                     '~ff,AE                                                                          /
f-/f           D~~~ELIVERY
BU ILD IN G S                                                                            f /f /f-f                                                      f
ME LKA WARER WEIR                             f/f                    "/''f- 
MAIN DRAINS                                      RAN SE-fOf
MAIN CANAL                                       f                   f I                                                                  Wr rld    f-f-f
DYKES                                           f-                  /                                                                                 --
DIS-TRIRBUTION NETWORK                         fff                   f 
ROADS                               I                               ""
I  "f-f-        i"'                L    -4-~~~~~~       ~      ~~3,000 ha. -  5,000ha. 20h*
ON-FARM WORKS                                  f--      I                               _    _      __                                       __
1//jMAIN RAINY SEASONWnlBak-41






E1-HIOPIA
WAIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
AWASH VALLEY AUTHORITY
PRESENT ORGANIZATION
Icomm_a I
DEUYGENERAL
MANAGER
LEGAL ADVISO          mIIIGLWT^ETe                                   Y TO    .
OEFtJTV GENERALlOlEfl
PUSUL RELATIONS
a LIRAriY
ADMINISTRATION                                                 EEO NEGIERG
DEPT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LP
FINANCE DIVISION             PROPERTY DIVISION                               GRENEROWT DIVISION                                                            ET                 YRLG
SERVICE   VS ov                                       DIVISO          COCSIN          C ERATIVE
~~~NTANTER~~~~~~~~~AiING     ES   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ECSUVEL 2                                                                                                                     S
STOR                    PERSONNEL      SECRETDFIALGGARAG
ASSAYITA BRANCH           MDL  WS
jNqId Bs.k - 7413






AMLARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
_AW    VALLEY AUThORITY
egapouO 0O1GANIZATION
T Ll .J i
I~
Eli I__ l
[  :W    ~~      ~~-      - - -- ----              ------------------                                                                                                                            e 
g                                                                             -E  -                  E  1 E    F
,              .                ,                .-






AWASH VALLEY AUTHORITY
PROPOSED FUNCTIONAL ORGANIZATION
BOARD OF
COMMiSSIONERS
GENERAL MANAGER
\          .       _LAN_NG-N-T -    --~----~                           *
___      X                   |                        _   _           aI0I
A                DEUT                    AUDIO                  LEGALR FINA   9
S,     r PLANAGER
INFORMATION
LEGEND:  llnas ot rasponsibility~~~            ~       REIONA             '~
*      0          ai      a 
---llcbon~~~~~~~~~~~~ c ndo t chncc di to
LEGEND:    w"lflow ot i1rmattonabIt
< **'w afioo ofn n- 7411
L-.-.L-ord Bnk- 41






IBRD 2828RI
ETHIOPIA                                               400                             FEBRUARY 1973
UPPER AND MIDDLE AWASH VALLEY
J-1.
Roads
,,---4-4+ I Railways
Rivers
-100                                                                                                                               0
Swamps
Developed area                                                                   Ca
BCaJ1dda,    ~
Project area                                                                    S      6e   c
Future project areas                                                                       0
Melka Sadi area                       /ULHIAMO                                       /
eARA       '< 
MELKA
KESEM DAM                                            0 SADI  t,  q
olg em                                                                    AWARtA\ 
^.              y                                                        <Awash Station
<//~ Q1) ,/,    'METEHARA
oj                                       :A-ERA,';
The boundaries shown on this map do not
imply endorsement or acceptance by the
f   )   TIz BI| L A             World Bank and its affiliates.
0t/  -    ~WONJII            
u~~~~~~~
R             ~~~~GELILEA
a   Meki                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARABIA
.  Diversion                                                       Mossowa       o                -
j Asmara
so                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
Area of     Assab<5-
Tendaho           Ojibouti
HO/RA                                                                                  A  .    map
A BYA TA
LAKE                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Addi's A ba,b
KOKA OAN    W       sh Stotior
LAKE        .-. _AwaJh Dams IT a mI
SH/ALA
.o                25                50                                                    Z.'
Miles
0    25          50
39.         ~~Kilometers 






IBRD 10313
ETHIOPIA                                            <,                             FEBRUARY 1973
AMIBARA IRRIGATION PROJECT ÷
M E LKA                                                                                                      ,qc
SADM I AMIBARA
Area                                                                                         I
_ Future main canals
Existing canals                                                                            /   r,        r
Future main drains                            S       Awash                                   -  )   44
Existing drains
Flood protection works with roads
Other roads
>-     Airstrips
Future township area                        /                              /
Railways
International boundaries   K'                                                2
- ~     ~      \ -              - LL/OsJ 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lb ~ ~ ~       ~        ~         ~       ~        ~       ~        
KILOMETERS                                                                                                RCa
MILES                             \\+ . ReseaIrch      ,$%y
5          l__, ;f          t       ,j/_D  w                     e                 D0~~~~~~~5  4
o   2   4   6   8   XA.VA. i :t               /   St (                    \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,SAOI AAtA
IMassawo
M I L E 5                       AsearcN                                         Aara\
kk /Assab
Ter h  ~         jibouti
F   Awash Rive            KOALIA
I  ADDIS ABAB                 re Dewa
r\NAwash Dams land if
/Koka Dam
49 '   /oF6  ' E T H I O  P I A            60
Future
'ir-Melka Sadi          The houndanes shown on this map do not                ,.JN\    -J'
diversion weir    imply endorsement or acceptance by the°                        SOMAA
-~~~~~~~o ~~~~~~World Bank and its affiliates                                                    SOMALIA42



