CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 418 ET
Project Agreement
(Amibara Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AWASH VALLEY AUTHORITY
DATED JULY 5, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 418 ET
Project Agreement
(Arnibara Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AWASH VALLEY AUTHORITY
DATED JULY 5, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and AWASH
VALLEY AUTHORITY (hereinafter called AVA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Empire of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Borrower transfer the proceeds of the Credit to AVA
and that AVA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Borrower and AVA propose to enter into a project financing
agreement pursuant to which the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be transferred to AVA on terms and conditions
approved by the Association; and
WHEREAS AVA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  the term "Settler" means any inhabitant who, under an agreement
with AVA, occupies a portion of the Project Area set aside by AVA as a pilot
land settlement area; and
(b)  the term "Eth$" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AVA shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering
practices, with qualified and experienced management and staff and in accordance
with the provisions of the Awash Valley Authority Charter, 1962.
(b)   In order to assist in carrying out the Project, AVA shall establish a
project office headed by a project executive director satisfactory to the Association
and shall employ therein the firm of consultants referred to in Section 2.02(a)
of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist AVA in the preparation of (i) plans,
specifications and bidding documents for the Project, and (ii) a second-stage
feasibility study and studies on schistosomiasis and other areas of public health,
AVA shall employ a firm of consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AVA shall:
(i)         within six months of the date of this Agreement, employ a
qualified and experienced person satisfactory to the Association
to serve as a counterpart to the project manager provided by
such consultants; and
(ii)        within three months of the date of this Agreement, prepare and
send to the Association for review the job descriptions for the
counterpart positions to the consultants employed to fill the
positions of a senior agriculturalist, three senior engineers and
an agricultural extension and training officer, and upon receiving
the Association's comments, shall appoint qualified Ethiopians,
as required, to such counterpart positions.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts A, B, and C of the Project, AVA shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be


﻿5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) AVA undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit transferred to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by AVA to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AVA shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit transferred to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) AVA shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   AVA: (i) shall maintain separate records satisfactory to the Association
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit transferred to
it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit transferred
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. AVA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Project
Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AVA shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Project Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AVA
Section 3.01. AVA shall operate, maintain and, whenever it becomes
necessary, replace the works and facilities included in the Project, in accordance


﻿6
with sound agricultural, engineering, economic and financial policies and practices
and shall take such action as is reasonably required to ensure the economic use
of the irrigation water made available by such works for agricultural development.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AVA shall,
prior to making irrigation water available to a Concessionaire, enter into an
agreement of lease with such Concessionaire, the general terms and conditions of
which shall have been approved by the Association. The lease with each such
Concessionaire shall include, inter alia, provision for the prompt payment of the
charges specified in Section 3.03 of this Agreement which are applicable to
Concessionaires.
(b)   AVA shall promptly transmit copies of each such agreement to the
Association.
Section 3.03. (a) AVA shall levy and collect charges acceptable to the
Association on Concessionaires and Settlers in order to obtain revenues at least
sufficient to cover all operating and maintenance costs and, in addition, recover
as much as practicable of the moneys invested in the Project (taking into account
the relationship of the investment recovery rate to Concessionaires' and Settlers'
incentives and capacity to pay) together with reasonable interest thereon; except
as the Association and AVA shall otherwise agree, such charges shall be set at
the following levels:
(i)         Immediately following the introduction of irrigation to each
Concessionaire and Settler, an operation and maintenance charge
of not less than Eth$57 per hectare per annum on land leased
to such Concessionaires and Settlers shall be levied and promptly
recovered;
(ii)        At the beginning of the fourth year following the introduction
of irrigation to each Concessionaire and Settler, AVA shall levy
and promptly recover a combined water/land development
charge of not less than Eth$300 per hectare per annum on land
leased to such Concessionaires and of not less than Eth$1 00
per hectare per annum on land leased to such Settlers;
(iii)       At the beginning of the ninth year following the introduction
of irrigation to each Concessionaire, AVA shall increase the
above-mentioned water/land development charge paid by such
Concessionaires to Eth$500 per hectare per annum if, in the
opinion of AVA, the incentives to such Concessionaires would
be maintained despite such an increased charge; and


﻿7
(iv)        In the event of tile drainage being installed in the Project Area,
a special tile drainage charge shall be levied by AVA on all
Concessionaires and Settlers to recover the cost of such
installation.
(b)   In the twelfth year following the introduction of irrigation of each
Concessionaire and Settler, AVA shall review the adequacy of the charges referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section with respect to the recovery of operating and
maintenance costs, moneys invested in the Project, and the generation of the
maximum practicable revenues to support future development activities of AVA,
and thereafter, shall conduct similar reviews at intervals of three years.
Section 3.04. AVA shall, within two years of the date of this Agreement,
or such other date as may be agreed between AVA and the Association, take such
measures as may be necessary after consultation with the Association to reorganize
AVA for the purpose of carrying out the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AVA shall
continue to construct, in areas of the Awash Valley determined by AVA after
consultation with the Association for the purpose of providing alternative grazing
areas for the livestock which shall be relocated from the Amibara area, a number
of deep wells adequate to support such livestock in such areas, provide such deep
wells with adequate pumping equipment supported by standby equipment, and
make its best efforts to institute sound livestock management practices in such
areas.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AVA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. AVA shall: (i) maintain separate accounts in respect of the
Project; (ii) have its separate and general accounts, and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
and in the case of its separate accounts, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall


﻿8
have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of AVA and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and AVA shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and AVA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of AVA and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and AVA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
AVA of their respective obligations under the Project Financing Agreement.
Section 5.03. AVA shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of AVA and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of AVA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify AVA of this event.


﻿9
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For AVA:
Awash Valley Authority
Wingate Street
P.O. Box 591
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:
AVA
Addis Ababa
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf


﻿10
of AVA may be taken or executed by its General Manager or such other person
or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. AVA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of AVA, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by AVA pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
AWASH VALLEY AUTHORITY
By /s/ Teferra Wolde-Semait
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
I.    With respect to any contract for civil works, equipment, vehicles or materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, AVA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by AVA to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and AVA shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, AVA shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. After bidding documents
are printed, two complete copies as distributed to bidders shall be promptly
furnished to the Association. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and prior to evaluation, the Borrower
will furnish promptly to the Association a summary of the bids including bidders'
names, addresses and total prices. After evaluation, AVA shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said consultants,
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform AVA and state
the reasons for such determination, and in such a case the provisions of Section
4(c) of Schedule I of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿12
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract, AVA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform AVA and state the reasons
for such determination, and in such a case the provisions of Section 4(c) of Schedule
1 of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable.
3.    (a)   With respect to any contract for minor items or groups of items of
equipment, vehicles, material or supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $20,000, such items may be procured without resort to international
competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate of expenditures on items so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $200,000. Quotations for the supply
of such items, however, shall be requested from at least two competing suppliers.
A conformed copy of each contract relating to such procurement shall be sent
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the date of the first
application for withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit in respect thereof.
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule:
(i)         contracts for buildings, bush clearing and the construction of
the link road to the Awash-Tendaho highway may be awarded
in accordance with domestic tendering procedures; and
(ii)        rough leveling may be carried out by force account.
4.    Identical or similar items to be procured shall be grouped together to the
extent practicable for the purpose of inviting bids.


