CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 418 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Anibara Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 5, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 418 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Amibara Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 5, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1973, between EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Awash Valley Authority with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will transfer
to the said Authority the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the said Authority:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted.
(c)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h).


﻿4
(d)   In Section 6.06 the words "the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement."
(e)   In Section 8.02 the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02.    Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "AVA" means the Awash Valley Authority, an autonomous public
authority of the Imperial Ethiopian Government established under the Awash Valley
Authority Charter, 1962 and includes any successor to such Authority;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and AVA, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and AVA pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "Project Area" means the Amibara area described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, for the purpose of providing alternative grazing areas, it
includes other areas of the Awash Valley as may be determined by AVA after
consultation with the Association; and
(e)   "Concessionaire" means any legal entity which has met the technical,
administrative and financial criteria established by AVA, which criteria are
acceptable to the Association, and has entered into an agreement with AVA to
lease a portion of the Project Area.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as


﻿5
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 3 1, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983 and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution ei the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
AVA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Project Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AVA to perform such


﻿6
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall transfer the proceeds of the Credit to AVA as
well as the balance of Project costs not financed from the proceeds of the Credit
under a project financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
AVA under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project Financing
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Project Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. If, in the opinion of AVA, and after consultation with the
Association, it becomes necessary after the completion of the construction of the
drains included in Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement -
for tile drainage to be installed in the Project Area, the Borrower hereby undertakes
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, promptly to make available
to AVA the funds needed to meet the cost of installing the tile drainage that
is required.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, and without
materially and adversely affecting the overall capacity of the Ethiopian Electric
Light and Power Authority (EELPA) to meet the demand made upon it for the
supply of power, the Borrower shall ensure that (i) the flow of water in the Awash
River is not depleted below the minimum that is required for the Project as a
result of any other requirements; (ii) a quantitative determination is promptly made
of the diversion requirements of users of waters of the Awash River for purposes
of irrigation; and (iii) EELPA, or any successor thereto, shall give AVA an
undertaking within twelve months of the date of this Agreement that, subject to
the availability of alternative generating capacity and to any physical limitation
imposed by the design of the Koka Dam, it shall release from the said Dam during
drought periods a minimum amount of water in accordance with said diversion
requirements and as such drought periods shall be determined by EELPA and AVA.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause satisfactory sanitation and other social
services to be established and maintained in all settlements in the Project Area.


﻿7
Such sanitation services shall inter alia include the development of a domestic water
supply, and a pollution control system for wastes discharged into the Awash River.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the recommendations of the consultants referred to in Section
2.02(a) of the Project Agreement with respect to the study of schistosomiasis
referred to in Part E of the Project are implemented by the adoption of reasonable
measures for the control of such disease.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall (i) continue to ensure that qualified Ethiopian agronomists or other specialists,
as required, are employed as counterparts for foreign experts working full- or
part-time at the agricultural research station at Melka Warer; and (ii) ensure that
during the ten years following the date of this Agreement adequate local finance
is made available to enable the said agricultural research station to fund the
proposed expansion of its research for, inter alia, cotton, maize, groundnuts,
tobacco, vegetables, oilseeds, fruit crops, forages and livestock and extension
services.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall make appropriate arrangements for the
provision of credit to Concessionaires and other farmers in the Project Area.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the -equest of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through     their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agleement and the Project Financing Agreement, the performance by AVA of its
obligations under the Project Agreement and the Project Financing Agreement, and
the administration, operations and financial condition of AVA and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿8
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of AVA and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by AVA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Project Financing Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. 'The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territory.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territory.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territory.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿9
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of AVA
under the Project Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AVA or for the suspension
of its operations unless arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have been
made for the assumption and performance of all the obligations of AVA under
the Project Agreement uon said dissolution, disestablishment or suspension; or
(c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that AVA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Project Financing Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in Section 7.02(a) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and to AVA; or
(b)   the event specified in Section 7.02(b) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of AVA
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative and
governmental action;


﻿10
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Project Financing Agreement, as
approved by the Association, on behalf of the Borrower and AVA, respectively,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative and
governmental action; and
(c)  AVA has appointed the consultants specified in Section 2.02(a) of
the Project Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, AVA, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of AVA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Project Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and AVA,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
AVA in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date January 4, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.01 and Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
W


﻿11
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
Telex:     21147
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Ghebeyehou Mekbib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.   Civil Works,                   10,100,000         77% of total
On-farm Devel-                                    expenditures
opment and
Buildings
II.   Equipment and                   800,000
Vehicles (in-
cluding spare
parts)
(i)        Imported                               100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii)       Locally pro-                           70% of local
cured                                  expenditures
III.  Consultants                    2,500,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
IV.   Unallocated                    3,600,000
TOTAL              17,0000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods (excluding inland freight) produced in, or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred after March 1, 1973, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territory on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and Io longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request


﻿14
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the development of the Amibara plains area, situated
on the eastern (right) bank of the Awash River, in the middle Awash Valley, about
175 km east of Addis Ababa and about 50 km downstream of the village known
as Awash Station. The Project would provide gravity irrigation for about 10,000 ha
net of mostly undeveloped land.
The Project includes:
A.    Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection
The construction of a diversion weir on the Awash River, irrigation canals,
drainage channels and flood protection dykes to serve the Project Area.
B.   Roads, Buildings and Housing
The construction in the Project Area of:
(1)   a link road to the Awash-Tendaho highway, a graveled service road
network along the main canals and drains and an unsurfaced network
along secondary canals; and
(2)   buildings for a project headquarters, a workshop, stores, staff housing
and related facilities for the project authority, research station and
the consultants.
C.    On-Farm Development
On-farm development works would include field canals and drains, small
structures, land clearing, stone removal and land leveling.
D.    Operation and Maintenance Equipment, Farm Machinery and Vehicles
Procurement and utilization of equipment for operating and maintaining
irrigation and drainage systems, farm machinery, equipment for the research station
and housing and vehicles.


﻿16
E.    Consultants
The employment of consultants to prepare final designs. to supervise
construction, to provide technical assistance for operation and maintenance and
agricultural development and to carry out additional investigations and studies,
including studies of schistosomiasis and other areas of public health and a feasibility
study for a second-stage project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 1978.


