Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16328-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 22, 1997
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Real (RS)
US$I = RS 1.06 (March 27, 1997)
This exchange rate has been used throughout the report unless otherwise indicated
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDES          - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CPMS           - Computerized Project Management System
CVRD           - Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
Vale do Rio Doce Company
DAER           - Departamento Autonomo de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul
Rio Grande do Sul State Roads Department
DER            - Departamento Estadual de Estradas de Rodagem
State Roads Department
DNER           - Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
National Roads Department
EA             - Environmental Assessment
EBM            - Expenditure Budgetting Model
FEPAM          - Rio Grande do Sul State Environmental Agency
GA             - Guarantee Agreement
GEIPOT         - Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
GOB            - Government of Brazil
HDM            - Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
[CB            - International Competitive Bidding
'CMS           - Imposto sobre a Circulacao de Mercadorias
Value Added Tax
IDB            - Inter-American Development Bank
IERR           - Internal Economic Rate of Return
IPVA           - Imposto sobre a Propriedade de Veiculos Automotores
Vehicle Registration Tax
IRI            - International Roughness Index
LA             - Loan Agreement
MERCOSUL    - Southern Cone Trade Agreement
MT             - Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
NCB            - National Competitive Bidding
NPV            - Net Present Value
PIP            - Project Implementation Plan
PM             - Project Manager
PMU            - Project Management Unit
POM            - Program Operational Manual
RFFSA          - Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
Federal Railways
SRP            - State Road Program
TOR            - Terms of Refercnce
VOC            - Vehicle Operating Cost Model
Vice President:     Shahid Javed Burki
Director:           Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief      Asif Faiz
Task Manager:       Jacques Collier



BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
Loan and Project Summary                                        ......................................................    (i)
I.  TRANSPORT  SECTOR OVERVIEW  .......................................................1
A.   The Transport Sector in the Economy .......................................................1
B.   Sector Policy and Institutional Reform .......................................................1
C. The Road Transport Industry .......................................................   .2
D.   The Highway Networks, Maintenance Conditions and Policies .....................................................3
E.   Highway Administration and Decentralization .......................................................4
F.   Highway Financing .......................................................5
G.   Bank Sector Experience and Strategy .......................................................6
II. RIO  GRANDE  DO  SUL  HIGHWAY  SYSTEM  ......................................................                            .7
A.   Overview  of the State Economy ........................................................7
B.   The Reform of the State ......................................................                                                         7
C.   The State's Highway Network, Maintenance Condition and Policies ..............................................8
D.   The State's Highway Expenditure and Funding Program ......................................................                             10
E.   The State's Highway Concession Program  ..................1............................. .                                   .....     1
F. The Reorganization of the State Highway Department .11
G.   Environmental and Safety Management ............................................                                                      12
III. THE PROJECT ..............................................                  .                                                             13
A.   Project Origin, Objectives and Rationale ..............................................                                               13
B.  Project Description .............................................. 14
C.   Project Cost and Financing ..............................................                                                             16
D.   Environmental and Economic Analyses ..............................................                                                    17
E.  Project Risks .                  ............           ..................................    18
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN .............................................. 18
A.  Institutional Responsibilities ............................................... 18
B.   Organizational Arrangements ..............................................                                                            19
C.   Project Implementation Action Plan                                  .. ............................................ 19
D. Procurement Arrangements ............................................... 21
E.   Disbursement, Accounting and Audit Arrangements    ....................                                 .......................... 22
F. Monitoring and Supervision Plan    ............................................... 22
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................ ...................... 23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil during September 1996. The mission
comprised Messrs. Jacques Cellier (Task Manager, LAIIU), Gerard Liautaud (Senior Highway Engineer, LAlITJ), Rodrigo
Archondo-Callao (Highway Economist Consultant), and Vitor Bellia (Enviromnent Consultant). Ms. Joy Obialor and Ms.
Maria Gracia Schierloh provided administrative support. Messrs. Asif Faiz, Orville Grimes, and Gobind T. Nankani are
respectively the managing Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and Department Director for the operation.



VI. ANNEXES
1. Bank Experience with Highway Projects in Brazil ................................................................ 25
2. Economic Analysis of State Network Maintenance Policies and Program               31
3. Institutional Capacity, Technical Assistance and Training                         47
4. Project Implementation Plan, Indicators and Targets                                50
Table 1. Project Cost and Financing .50
2. Monitoring Indicators and Targets                   .51
3. DAER Revenues and Expenditures, 1981-2001 .52
4. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .53
5. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement .53
Chart 1. Project Implementation Time Schedule .54
5. Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan .55
6. Supporting Tables:
Table 1. Transportation Expenditures by Mode .57
2. Evolution of National and Transportation Aggregates .58
3. Brazil's Highway Networks.. .                                             59
4. Brazil's Federal Highway Network .60
5. Brazil's State Highway Networks .61
6. Brazil's Road User Charges .62
7. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .63
Map: IBRD No. 28663: Brazil - Rio Grande do Sul State Highway Management Project



BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                    State of Rio Grande do Sul
Guarantor:                   Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:         Rio Grande do Sul State Roads Department (DAER)
Poverty:                     Not applicable
Amount:                      US$70 million
Terms:                       Repayment in 15 years, including standard grace period, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for fixed-rate single currency loans in US Dollars
with an expected disbursement period of three to six years
Commitment Fee:              0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
Onlending Terms:             Not applicable
Financing Plan:              See para. 3.15 and Table 1, Annex 5
Net Present Value:           US$615 million equivalent
Map:                         IBRD No. 28663: Brazil Rio Grande do Sul State Highway
Management Project
Project Identification Number:  BR-PA-34578



4



BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR OVERVIEW
A. The Transport Sector in the Economy
1.01   The transport sector accounts for a rather low R$13 billion or 4.3 percent of Brazil's GNP. Road
transport alone accounts for about 3.2 percent. But these figures exclude the very important segments of
own-account transport, services by truck owner-operators, and private automobile use, which are not
accounted for in GNP calculations. Total transportation expenditures amount to about US$90 billion
equivalent, and road transport accounts for 85 percent of that total (Table 1, Annex 6). The transport
industry has grown at rates which have systematically exceeded those of GDP. In the 1970s, when GDP
increased at an average 8.5 percent per year, the transport industry grew at over 11 percent per year; in the
1980s and early 1990s, when GDP grew at an average two percent per year, the transport industry grew at
three percent per year on average (Table 2, Annex 6).
1.02   Public investments in transport, which used to account for about 40 percent of total public capital
formation in the 1960s and the early 1970s and reached 3.3 percent of GNP in 1975, have sharply
decreased to below one percent of GNP since 1981. Road expenditures in particular had to be curtailed
severely, which resulted in the deterioration of large portions of the networks built in the 1950s and 1960s.
The unsatisfactory operational and financial performance of the railways also led to underinvestment,
insufficient maintenance, and to the deterioration of railway tracks, motive power and rolling stock.
Because of the size of the transport industry, its direct impact upon the productive sectors, the extensive
involvement of the government and the fiscal implications, the performance of the transport sector is
critical to the success of the Government's economic stabilization and growth efforts.
B. Sector Policy and Institutional Reform
1.03   The management of the transport sector is undergoing significant changes. A number of reforms,
which aim at reducing government expenditures in the sector, at deregulating and privatizing transport
services so as to allow market forces to be the primary determinant of the services provided, and at
decentralizing expenditure and financing responsibilities to lower levels of government, have been recently
undertaken or are about to be implemented. The Concession Law, enacted in February 1995, establishes
the legal framework for private concessions of public services. A proposal for a new Transport Law,
which would redefine the entire transport system under federal jurisdiction, is currently being considered by
the Congress. The following paragraphs summarize the status of these reforms.
1.04   Highways. The Constitutional reform of 1988 decentralized fiscal revenues, transferring road user
taxes to States and Municipalities, but kept unchanged the distribution of responsibilities among the three
administrative levels. The reform has affected the ability of the Federation to rehabilitate and maintain an
extensive federal highway network, and to finance needed capacity investments. The Govermment has
decided to reduce the size of the road network under federal jurisdiction to the interstate highways and
intemational connections, to transfer the operation and maintenance of high-traffic highways as well as
capacity investments to private concessionaires where feasible, and to transfer other highways to state
jurisdictions. A highway concession program has been developed and initiated, with five concessions



- 2 -
already awarded. Agreements have been reached with the state governments on the highways to be
transferred from federal to state jurisdictions and on the main conditions of the transfers (section E).
1.05   Railways. The Government is currently restructuring the federal railways (RFFSA) into six
regional operations and concessioning these operations to private operators, with assistance from the Bank
under the Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project (Loan No. 4046-BR). About 15,000
redundant staff had their employment terminated and received severance payments, partly financed under
the Bank loan. Many are being retrained and will receive outplacement assistance. Five concessions have
been successfully auctioned and contracted, and the first ones already show substantial operational
improvements. Similarly, the Government of the State of Sao Paulo has decided to restructure and to
privatize Ferrovia Paulista S.A., following a similar model. Finally, the Federal Government decided to
privatize CVRD, including the railways owned and operated by CVRD.
1.06   Ports. The Government closed the National Port Holding Company "Portobras" in 1990 and the
Congress approved a law for a broad deregulation of the port system in February 1993. The Port Law
liberalizes port activities, enabling private terminals to operate for public use and private port operators to
compete with the port administrations. It also decentralizes normative and tariff setting responsibilities to
newly-created local Port Authority Councils, and establishes port labor management entities. Some ports,
including Santos and Rio Grande, have made progress in implementing the reform. The Government has
recently developed an action plan for the full implementation of the reform, including the privatization of
the ports and terminals.
1.07   Multimodal Transport. The rapid evolution and expansion of intra- and inter-regional trade,
fostered by regional trade bloc initiatives and by agricultural expansion and industrial development in the
interior of Brazil, will require important changes in the national and international transport systems. Freight
carriers will be required to provide efficient and comprehensive logistical services to agricultural, industrial
and commercial shippers, and for this purpose they will have to seek innovative multimodal transport
solutions which maximize productivity and quality of service. This in turn will require a much better
integration of the transport systems, particularly railroads and ports, which represent the major bottlenecks
in the present transport system. The restructuring and privatization of railroads and port terminals, if
adequately completed, is expected to resolve the bulk of the intra- and intermodal bottlenecks.
C. The Road Transport Industry
1.08   Road Freight Transport Industry. The country's 15,000 commercial trucking firms together
own about 25% of the truck fleet, and truck owner-operators operate another 25% of the fleet. Own-
account trucking therefore represents the remaining half of the truck fleet. Trucking firms are highly
specialized as to the type of market served and service provided, including routes and products. Larger
firns concentrate their services on denser routes, while smaller firms appear more frequently in less dense
or more specialized links. Owner-operators generally operate older, medium-size trucks with conventional
open bodies, on medium and long-distance hauls. Own-account trucking is most important in pick-up and
delivery services in the cities, and in the inter-city transport of cargoes which require specialized equipment.
1.09   The trucking industry overall is efficient. Truck rates reveal a competitive position in relation to
rail transport. The share of operational expenses to revenues varies from 50% to 70%, and total expenses
are about 90% of revenues. There is no evidence of above-normal profits. Investments, however, have
tended to decline in relation to GNP since the mid-1970s. Medium-size trucks have been substituted for
smaller trucks and pick-ups in urban services, and for heavier trucks in inter-city services. The number of
owner-operators has been decreasing gradually since the mid-1970s and their fleet is rapidly aging.



1.10   The trucking industry is largely unregulated. The role of the Government has essentially been to
provide and maintain the road infrastructure. The Government influenced operations only indirectly
through pricing and taxation of inputs, and license fees. In 1983 a law was passed authorizing the
Government to regulate the industry, and some important restrictions were introduced. But insufficient
political support and means of enforcing legislation have made the impact of these restrictions negligible. In
1990, the Government revoked all these restrictions.
1.11   Road Passenger Transport Industry. Passenger transportation in Brazil is considered to be a
public service. Entry into the sector is regulated by government through licenses or concessions. Federal,
State, and municipal governments set rates, routes, frequencies, and safety and quality standards in
practically all market segments. There are a few publicly-owned and operated firms in some of the largest
cities. Private enterprises, however, are predominant in number and hold the largest share of the market.
The majority of these firms are small to medium in size. In the interstate segment and in dense inter-
municipal connections, however, there are a few firms providing services in complex networks, operating
fleets of more than a thousand buses. In the urban segment, large firms are rare; they usually serve a
strictly defined geographic zone, operating a fleet of up to two or three hundred buses from a single garage.
D. The Highway Networks, Maintenance Condition and Policies
1.12   Brazil's road system has a total length of
about 1.6 million km. The system is divided into  Table 1.1: Brazil's Road Networks (Thousand Kin.)
three administrative levels: (a) a federal network         Paved      Unpaved        Total
of about 67,000 km under the jurisdiction of the    Federal  52          15           67
National Roads Department (DNER); (b) state    State        85          115          200
networks totaling about 200,000 km under the
responsibility of the 26 states, two federal    Municipal   1,
territories and the Federal District; and (c)    Total      152        1,505        1,657
municipal networks extending over some 1.4
million km under the jurisdictions of over 4,000 Municipalities (Table 1.1 and Annex 6, Table 3).
1.13   The federal network is paved over 75% of its length, i.e. about 52,000 km. The majority of the
unpaved network is located in the Amazon region, where traffic volumes are still too low to warrant costly
paving improvements. Built mainly between the 1950s and the 1970s, the federal network has suffered
extensive deterioration as a result of age, heavier-than-expected traffic volumes and axle-weights, and
inadequate maintenance. In the early 1980s, the situation of the federal network was dramatic, with the
proportion of pavements in bad condition, because of major structural problems, reaching 30%. From that
time, however, DNER, scaling down new construction programs, has placed major emphasis on
rehabilitation and maintenance. About 25,000 km were rehabilitated or resurfaced, half of which with
assistance from the Bank under three completed projects (Sixth Highway Project, Loan no. 1557-BR,
Federal Highways Sector Project, Loan no. 2446-BR, and Highways Management and Rehabilitation
Project, Loan no. 3169-BR). Pavement condition surveys carried out in 1996 show that the condition of
the network has effectively improved in terms of both structural capacity and surface defects, with about
10% of the network being considered in poor condition (Table 4, Annex 6).
1.14   The state networks comprise approximately 200,000 km, i.e. 12% of Brazil's total road length.
About 85,000 km (or 43% of total state network length) are paved, 64,000 km (or 32%) are graveled, and
50,000 km (or 25%) consist of earth roads. Network length has been increasing at a steady rate of 7% p.a.
over the past 30 years. The density of state roads, however, is still very low (23 meters per km2 and 700
inhabitants per km of road, as an average). Five states (Goias, Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo, Mato Grosso and



Bahia) together account for half of the total length, and four states (Sao Paulo, Parana, Bahia and Minas
Gerais) account for half the length of the paved networks (Table 5, Annex 6). Traffic on state networks is
estimated at about 50 billion vehicle-km, i.e. about 25% more than on the federal network, and it is
growing faster (at about 9% p.a.), which leads to a substantial need for pavement maintenance and
strengthening, as well as for new paving and capacity expansion programs.
1.15   The surface condition of the paved
state networks is now worse than that of the    Table 1.2: Condition of State Paved Networks, 1989
federal network, despite the younger age of             Good    Regular    Poor     Total
the pavements (the weighted average age   OOO'Km.        34.0     28.0     20.0     82.0
being about 13 years).  A comparative                             35%      23%      100%
study of the maintenance condition of the
federal and state networks, carried out in
1989 under the coordination of the Brazilian Association of the DERs (ABDER), showed that about 42%
of the paved state highways were in good condition, 35% in regular condition, and 23% in poor condition;
and about 75% of those in good condition were less than five years old and 80% of those in regular
condition were in the five to ten year age range. The majority of the pavements in poor condition are more
than twelve years old. These results confirm that after a relatively slow but increasing deterioration
process in the first ten years, paved highways deteriorate very rapidly when adequate maintenance is not
carried out. The paved networks are therefore now reaching a critical phase of rapid deterioration, thus
requiring intensive rehabilitation and maintenance efforts. The condition of the unpaved network is also a
source of concem: 36% of the roads are in good condition, 39% in regular, and 25% in poor condition.
Also, almost 25,000 km of gravel roads have traffic volumes above 200 vehicles per day, and are
candidates for paving to reduce road maintenance and vehicle operating costs.
1.16   State govemments urgently need to develop and implement well-balanced road programs which
give adequate priority to routine and preventive maintenance, and to pavement strengthening and
rehabilitation, while keeping upgrading and paving programs consistent with the financial capabilities of
the state. For that purpose, state governments need to strengthen their highway agencies, through technical
assistance and training of their personnel, with a view to monitoring the condition of their networks, and
developing efficient rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and programs.
E. Highway Administration and Decentralization
1.17   Responsibilities for administering the country's road network are shared between DNER
(67,000 km), the 26 state road departments (DERs, 200,000 km), and the 4,000 or so municipalities
(1.4 million km). Following the 1988 constitutional and fiscal reforms, which have transferred the bulk of
road user tax revenues to the states and municipalities, the Federal Government has also decided to
decentralize responsibilities for administering the road networks. In particular, the size of the federal
network is to be reduced to the main interstate highways, through gradually transferring to the state
governments the responsibility for the other highways of predominantly local interest. The Federal
Government has prepared a plan, including the relevant draft legislation, for the transfer of about 17,500
km of roads from federal to state jurisdictions. Agreement has been reached with most states on the
specific highways and on the conditions and timing of their transfers.
1.18   DNER and many of the DERs have developed into large organizations to administer the extensive
construction programs of the previous decades. There are still substantial needs for building new roads, in
particular in the Center-West Region, and for capacity investments in the South and Southeast regions.
However, since large portions of the networks are now reaching a critical age, highway maintenance is



- 5 -
becoming, or it should become, the main activity of most agencies. Therefore, the agencies have to make
important institutional adjustments, in particular to develop appropriate road maintenance planning and
management systems, and to rely more systematically on the more efficient private contractor industry
rather than force account even for routine maintenance activities. DNER and some DERs have undertaken
such reforms under Bank-financed projects.
1.19   The decentralization process will require a broad reform and strengthening of the highway
institutions. The Federal Government has developed a strategy and an action plan to implement this
administrative reform of the highway subsector, including actions to: (a) gradually transfer the federal
highways of predominantly local interest to the state governments; (b) develop appropriate capabilities at
the federal level, for subsector policy formulation, planning, research and technological development,
including the management of the reduced federal network; (c) reorganize and streamline DNER in
accordance with its new responsibilities; and (d) assist the state governments in developing appropriate
capacity within the DERs for the management and maintenance of the state networks, including the
transferred highways. The recently-completed Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan
3169-BR) helped prepare programs (a) to (c). The ongoing and the proposed State Highway Management
Projects support the implementation of program (d) in a number of states.
F. Highway Financing
1.20   Road User Charges. The system of road user taxes underwent substantial changes with the fiscal
reform of 1989. The federal level lost its power to impose taxes on petroleum and alcohol products and on
motor-vehicle ownership, retaining only the petroleum import tax (IIP). The states gained from the
inclusion of petroleum and alcohol products and of inter-state and inter-municipal transport services in the
base of the value added tax (ICMS) and the right to tax motor-vehicle ownership. The municipal level
increased its participation in the revenues of the value added tax from 20% to 25%, and in those of the
motor-vehicle ownership tax (IPVA) from 40% to 50%; and they gained authority to impose a tax on sales
of gasoline and alcohol (IVVC). The ICMS imposed on petroleum and alcohol products has resulted in a
net increase in tax revenues and in an improved structure of road user taxes, as compared to the previous
tax, which was levied at a reduced rate on diesel oil and from which alcohol was exempted. Toll revenues
are marginal, but DNER and some states are planning to expand toll collection on high-traffic highways
through concessions. Overall, the states' and municipalities' revenues from road user taxation have
increased substantially, while those of the Federation have been reduced. The three administrative levels
recover at least the total costs of the appropriate operation, maintenance and rehabilitation of their road
networks. State and municipal governments are also able to recover from road users all or a substantial
portion of their road upgrading and construction expenditures (Table 6, Annex 7).
1.21   Fuel Prices. The prices of motor-vehicle fuels at the pump, in the first quarter of 1997, were
about US$0.80, US$0.43 and US$0.66 equivalent per liter of gasoline (which includes up to 20% of
ethanol), of diesel-oil, and of alcohol (or hydrated ethanol), respectively.  These prices have been
consistently maintained well above international prices, including the necessary adjustments for taxes,
distribution costs and retailers' margins. The Government has gradually reduced the implicit subsidy on
alcohol, and intends to eliminate it by 1998. The implicit subsidy is currently comparable to the estimated
environmental benefits derived from the use of ethanol as compared to gasoline.
1.22   Funding of Road Agencies. Road expenditures used to be funded mainly through revenues from
road user taxes, which were shared between the three levels of government and earmarked for that purpose.
In the 1980's, however, tax earmarking was gradually discontinued with a view to restoring central control
over public expenditures. The road agencies have consequently seen their resources erode drastically since



- 6 -
general budget allocations did not make up for the loss of earmarked funds, and their construction and
maintenance programs were affected. The proposed project would assist DAER in preparing appropriate
road programs based on sound technical and economic criteria, and help ensure adequate funding for the
rehabilitation and maintenance programs (para. 3.06).
G. Bank Sector Experience and Strategy
1.23   The Bank has made 31 loans im the transport sector since the early 1960s: 15 for highways and
feeder roads, six for railways, two for ports, and eight for urban transportation, in addition to financing
rural roads under a number of agriculture projects. Until the mid-1970s, the projects concentrated on the
expansion of the trunk highway network and on the improvement of the railway and mass transit systems.
In subsequent years, emphasis gradually shifted to the maintenance and rehabilitation of the interstate and
trunk highway network, to the planning and implementation on a decentralized basis of feeder roads
programs, to the rehabilitation of important railway corridors, and to the improvement of public bus
transport and traffic management in the major cities. More recently, the Bank has been supporting the
rehabilitation and decentralization of urban train systems with four loans, highway rehabilitation,
maintenance and decentralization with one loan to the Federation and five loans to states, and the
restructuring and privatization of the federal railways with a recently approved loan.
1.24   The Bank's involvement in the transport sector has been successful.  The projects' physical
objectives have generally been met, although the more recent difficult economic conditions and related
funding problems have sometimes caused delays. Progress has been made on policy reforms and
institutional strengthening though it has taken more time than expected, due to the size and complexity of
the sector, the large number of government agencies and public enterprises involved, and the difficulty of
reaching the needed consensus for policy reforms. Under the recently-completed Highway Management
and Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 3169-BR), the Federal Government, in consultation with the state
governments, developed a broad reform and decentralization of the highway administration. The ongoing
State Highway Management Projects have already achieved substantial progress in re-orienting the
participating states' highway programs to ensure appropriate priority for maintenance, and in strengthening
the planning and maintenance management capabilities of the DERs.
1.25   The assistance of the Bank to the transport sector of Brazil will remain oriented by broader country
objectives, particularly: (a) stabilization and consequent need to contain public expenditures, increase
revenue mobilization and to improve resource utilization; (b) economic growth, ensuring efficient and
reliable infrastructure services to targeted growth sectors of the economy; (c) redefinition of the role of the
state, strengthening its regulatory functions, withdrawing from operations and promoting private sector
participation in infrastructure; (d) administrative decentralization; and (e) environmental management.
1.26    Emphasis will be upon the formulation and effective implementation of appropriate transport
policy and institutional reforms including: (a) restructuring and privatization of railways and ports; (b) re-
design of sector regulations, establishment of appropriate regulatory agencies, and effective implementation
of regulatory reform, which, together with efficient pricing mechanisms and privatization measures, aim at
restoring the role of market forces in the sector; (c) institutional reform, including effective decentralization
of government responsibilities, seeking an appropriate balance between fiscal revenues and responsibilities,
strengthening the normative and monitoring functions at the center, and the planning, management and
environmental control capabilities of the decentralized entities; (d) privatization of operation and
maintenance services through concessions and management contracts; and (e) public investment
programming and private sector investment promotion based on appropriate economic, environmental and
project finance analyses, aiming in particular at facilitating intra and inter-regional trade flows.



- 7 -
II. RIO GRANDE DO SUL HIGHWAY SYSTEM
A. Overview of the State's Economy
2.01   The state of Rio Grande do Sul, with an area of 280,000 km2 (or half the size of France) and a
population of 10 million (i.e. 6 percent of Brazil's population), accounts for 7 percent of Brazil's GDP and
12 percent of exports. The state's economy has a strong base on cattle farming, agriculture and industry.
The state is a major producer and exporter of meat, rice, corn and soybeans. Its industrial value added
accounts for about 33% of GDP. It is particularly developed in manufacturing of capital and durable
consumer goods, as well as shoes and leather-related goods. The state is particularly well situated, at the
borders of Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay, to benefit from the Mercosul Trade Agreement. Recent
economic performance, however, has been disappointing.
2.02   The major factors of the poor economic perfornance have been the decline of the agriculture
sector, inadequate economic management, and the consequent deterioration of the public sector and of the
public infrastructure. Recent economic policies and public management were characterized by recurrent
fiscal deficits, increasing government borrowings, and excessive public employment. The state's fiscal
balance showed substantial primary deficits during most of the 1980s. The state's debt increased up to 200
percent of net current revenues in the early 1990s. The primary surpluses in the early 1990s were
insufficient to meet debt service obligations. Excessive personnel is the major expense item. The
infrastructure services provided by loss-making state-owned enterprises have generally been ineffective.
The inefficient public expenditure programs, giving priority to new construction projects at the expense of
the maintenance of the existing infrastructure, led to the deterioration of large portions of the public
infrastructure. In particular, the poor standards and condition of the state road network is an important
deterrent to more intensive private investment in agriculture and industry, and an obstacle to the
development of the state.
B. The Reform of the State
2.03   The Government has recently developed and initiated a broad reform of the state. The reform
focuses on improved tax collection, reduced expenditures particularly through staff retrenchment, and
privatization or concessioning of public utilities and infrastructure services. Since it does not have control
over the rate of the sales tax (ICMS), which constitutes the bulk of state revenues besides federal transfers,
the state plans to increase revenues through improvements in tax administration, particularly tax audits and
legal enforcement. The civil service reform aim to rationalize the structure of the government, eliminating
redundant administrative units, restructuring and downsizing others with a view to reducing the wage bill.
Recent progress was made with a program  of voluntary departures.  Further progress on staff
retrenchment, however, depends on the repeal of the federal protection of public servants.
2.04   The Government has developed a broad reform of the delivery of infrastructure services, which
encompasses the privatization of power and telecommunication utilities, and the concessioning of water,
ports and roads systems. The state's proposed road concession program is discussed in section E. The
reform is expected to substantially improve the state's fiscal situation and increase the efficiency of the
infrastructure sector. In March 1997, the Bank approved a State Reform Loan (Loan No. 4139-BR),
which will assist in the implementation of the reforrn, including with the concessioning of roads. The
proposed project would deepen the reform in the roads sector of the state, which accounts for a major share
of government expenditures.



-8 -
C. The State's Highway Network, Maintenance Condition and Policies
2.05   Network classification. The state of Rio
Grande do Sul has a total road network of about           Table 1: Network Classflcation
139,000 kIn, of which 7.3% is paved. Some 5,500  Jurisdlction   Paved (Ian)  Unpaved(kfm)  To4a(km)
km, mostly paved, are presently under federal  Federal       5,150        350       5,500
jurisdiction, and 124,000 km, for the most part  State       3,860       3,535       7,395
fall  municipal  ...        ~~StateTramsitory    830  1,300       2,130
unpaved, fall under municipal responsibility. The  Municipal  330      123,400    123,730
state road department (DAER) is responsible for a  Total     10,170    128,585    138,755
network of approximately 9,500 kIn, of which about
50% is paved. In 1980, the length of state paved roads was only 1980 km but a sustained upgrading and
paving program enabled to increase that figure to nearly 4700 kIn, thus an average rate of paving of about
170 km per year. In addition, a total of approximately 2,500 km of federal roads are expected to be
transferred to the state's jurisdiction as part of the federal government decentralization program, and 500
km of those would be rehabilitated in the transfer process.
2.06   Network  condition.   The  state's paved
network mostly consists of granular base-course    Fig I Surface Condition of Paved Network
overlaid over almost 60%  of its total length with
asphalt concrete and 40%  with surface treatment.                       49%
According to a survey made in 1995 which included   E  1500
objective  measurements  of surface  defects  and   c  i ooo
roughness, the paved network has 26% of its length in  cn  500
good condition, 50% in fair or regular condition, 17%                               m  I
in critical condition and about 8% in poor condition.    0
Comparative surveys carried out since 1992 indicate         Good   Falr  Critical  Poor
that although the proportion of roads in poor condition         Surface Condition
has consistently been between 16% and 20% over the
last four years, the percentage of roads in good condition fell from 50% in 1992 to about 26% in 1996,
thus suggesting the need to halt the tendency for further deterioration. Deflection measurements carried out
in 1996 indicate that pavement structures are fairly strong over almost 2/3 of the length of the network with
average deflection values below 0.65 mm. The proportion of weak pavements exhibiting deflection values
above 0.65 mm is about 30%. The above figures are consistent with the age distribution pattem of the
network which shows that about 10% of the pavements are less than five years old, while 30% have
exceeded their 15-year service life. Regarding the unpaved network, most of it is graveled and can be
traveled year-round by light vehicles at an average speed varying between 40 and 60 km/hour, with a
corresponding roughness of between 12 and 15 IRI. There is also need for improvement since adequate
grading and regraveling operations would reduce the level of roughness to less than 10 IRI, enabling
average speeds of up to 70-80 km/hr to be attained.
2.07   Traffic. The average annual daily traffic is uniformly distributed on the state's paved network,
generally ranging between 500 and 5,000 vehicles according to the latest, 1994 data available. Almost
30% of the length of paved roads are traveled by more than 2,000 vehicles per day. The average daily
traffic corresponds to about 1,200 vehicles per day (1,600 on asphalt concrete roads, and 750 on surface-
dressed roads). On the unpaved network, traffic volumes are lower, although quite appreciable, varying
between 100 and up to 1,000 vehicles per day, with a percentage of trucks of about 30%. About 3,000 km
of unpaved roads (or 63% in length), which carry more than 250 vehicles per day, require extensive
maintenance from DAER's districts. These roads are candidates for upgrading and paving, which, subject
to appropriate economic analysis, could be justified in economic terms through the reduction of both road



- 9 -
maintenance and vehice operating costs. The distribution of the paved and unpaved network lengths by
traffic ranges is shown on Figures 2 and 3 hereafter.
2.08   Maintenance Strategy.    About 50%  of
routine maintenance activities on the paved network are  Ig 2 Daily Traffic on Paved Network
contracted out. On the unpaved network, maintenance  1600
has been carried out essentially by force-account. In    1200
order to improve efficiency, DAER intends to contract    1000    2. 
Ego
out all routine maintenance on the paved network over   E 600{
the next three years, and on the unpaved network by the  400                   .3%
end of 2001.  In addition, a pilot project for the  200                    4%    3.9%
rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance during five  0  _                 1       -
years of a network of about 300 km of paved and           I  , e e          e  a e
unpaved roads under a performance-type contract is                        0 n       A
scheduled to start shortly. The proposed project will         Average DailyTraffic
build upon this first experience and assist DAER in
implementing  such  maintenance  policies  and       Fig3 Daily Traffic on Unpaved Network
networkwide.  The state also initiated a toll road
program in 1992 to shift the maintenance cost burden  2000    37% 36.
from the treasury's general fund to road users. Tolls    1500             26%
are collected on three roads of a total length of about       1000i
150 km by a private company contracted by DAER.     500
Toll revenues are used to finance rehabilitation and  0
maintenance works, as well as the widening to a dual       5°
carriageway of one of the roads.  Neighborhood
commissions  assist DAER  in  supervising  and                Average Daily Traffic
monitoring toll collection and in deciding on the
application of toll revenues. Finally, an important concession program involving about 2,500 km of high
traffic roads is being initiated (section E).
2.09   Maintenance Policies. A set of maintenance policies were developed by DAER using the HDM
III model; they were reviewed and found satisfactory by the appraisal mission. Pavements in good to fair
condition showing roughness level of less than 3 IRI and carrying traffic volumes below 1,000 vehicles per
day require only routine maitenance. For these roads, routine activities include essentially patching of all
potholes and the maintenance of the drainage system, horizontal marking, and vertical signs. When traffic
exceeds 1000 vehicle per day and deflection is high, routine maintenance is no longer sufficient and
periodic overlays using 4 to 8 cm of asphalt concrete should be applied when roughness exceeds 4 IRI. For
the unpaved network, the maintenance policy will consist in applying at least 6 gradings per year, including
regraveling operations, whenever the residual thickness of gravel reaches 5 cm. Such policies will help
maintain the network at an average level of 6 to 8 IRI, with a year-round traveling speed of about 70
km/hr. The economic analysis also showed that upgrading and paving operations are justified whenever
traffic volumes exceed about 500 vehicles per day, providing the unit costs of such works are kept within
reasonable limits, i.e., substantially below US$200,000 per km (Annex 2, section E).
2.10   Rehabilitation Policies. In order to restore and preserve an adequate level of service over the
portion of the paved network which presently shows signs of fatigue and deterioration, a rehabilitation
program was prepared on the basis of a matrix representing the actual condition of the network and the
traffic that it carries. The program was designed using the HDM and EBM model with updated unit costs
for rehabilitation activities and vehicle operations. The VOC submodel was calibrated to reflect modem
vehicle technology with adjusted fuel and spare parts consumption. The optimized rehabilitation program



- 10-
resulting from the economic analysis comprises two sets of standards: (a) resurfacing of about 1,850 km of
roads in regular condition, using a thin 4 cm asphalt concrete carpet; and (b) strengthening of about 840
km of roads in critical or poor condition, using 5 to 8 cm thick asphalt concrete overlays or reconstruction
(Annex 2). These interventions will nonnally prolong the service life of the pavements for about 10 years
whereupon a new overlay program will need to be implemented.
D. The State's Highway Expenditure and Funding Program
2.11   Upgrading and Paving Program.  On roads        Fig 4 Evolution of the State Paved Network
where total transport costs have become excessive as a             since 1980
result of traffic volumes and costly grading and   Es
regraveling operations, their upgrading and paving was  u- 6000
shown to yield significant economic returns (Annex 2).   500
DAER  prepared a five-year upgrading and paving        3000
program  comprising about 1,000 km  of the highest   * 2000
priority road sections of the unpaved network.  The   0  1000
objectives of the program are to: (i) provide adequate, '  0
all-year round  traffic  conditions  for agricultural   L    1980  1985  1990  1995  2000
production; (ii) connect important centers of agricultural            Year
and industrial production with the main intermodal
transport system; and (iii) facilitate trade with other MERCOSUL countries. The upgrading and paving
program is also expected to help reduce transport costs and the risks of accidents on these roads. The
Government recently negotiated a loan with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in order to help
finance the program. The Government also intends to upgrade and pave an additional 800 to 1000 km of
state roads over the next 5 years if the fiscal situation of the state allows it. The IDB-financed program
alone would bring the total length of the paved network to about 5,700 km in the year 2001 (Fig 4 herein).
2.12   The State Govermnent's five-year
highway public expenditure program,               Table 2: Five-Year State Highway Program
excluding concessionaires expenditures,                       Total     State
therefore  consists  of.the  following   Wo~,  Cost  Contribution   Borrowings
therefore  consists  Of the  following   Wors           Km    USSM      USSM        USSM
components: (a) rehabilitation and/or
resurfacing of about 2,700 km of paved   Rehabilitation  2,700    155    85          70*
highways; (b) routine maintenance of both  Maint6ance  9500    3600     6705        225*
the paved and the unpaved networks  Total                n.a   515      220         295
(about 9,500 km); and (c) upgrading and
paving of about 1,000 km of high priority   IDB (150M) + Japan Eximbank (75M)
roads with clear economic justification.
The cost of this base case program of works is estimated at about US$515 million equivalent over 1997-
2001. In the event that the state's fiscal situation permits, the Government could proceed with a
supplementary upgrading and paving program which could require up to US$190 million equivalent. The
total cost of the program, including DAER's staff payroll and pensions, administrative expenses and debt
service, is estimated at US$850 million equivalent over the five-year period, or at US$1,040 million
equivalent if the supplementary program is included (Anmex 4, Table 3).
2.13   The program of works is expected to be funded as follows: (a) the rehabilitation component would
be partly financed by the proposed Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent; (b) the maintenance component,
also included in the proposed project, would be fully funded by the State Treasury; (c) the upgrading and
paving program would be partly financed by the recently-negotiated IDB loan (US$150 million equivalent)



- I1 -
and by a proposed parallel loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (US$75 million equivalent) to be
negotiated. The State's counterpart expenditures under this program would amount to about US$220
million over the five-year period, or US$410 million if the supplementary upgrading program is carried out.
The state's annual capital expenditures on highways would therefore remain below or equivalent to the
corresponding annual expenditures made during the last three years (Table 3, Annex 4). Also, the State
currently recovers from road user taxes the total costs of operation, maintenance and rehabilitation of its
road network, as well as all its road upgrading and construction expenditures.
E. The State's Highway Concession Program
2.14   The State Government developed and is implementing a highway concession program which aims
at increasing private sector participation in the management and financing of highways. The program
involves about 2,500 km of two-lane highways with traffic volumes of at least 2,000 vehicles per day,
averaging 3,200 vehicles per day. Of the 2,500 km of roads to be concessioned, about 2,100 km are
currently under federal jurisdiction, but they have recently been delegated to the State under agreement
between the Federal and the State Governments. Some of the delegated highways are expected to be
transferred to the jurisdiction of the state under the decentralization program. The concession program
comprises about 40 road sections with individual lengths ranging from 50 to 300 km and distributed into
nine star-shaped systems around major cities. The concessionaires of each system will collect tolls on three
or more roads converging to the city and will use the proceeds to operate, rehabilitate and maintain the
concessioned network in good condition. The Government will fix the maintenance condition and minimum
works required, as well as the initial toll fare, acceptable by users, which will then be adjusted for inflation.
The concession will be awarded for 15 years to the bidder which proposes to maintain the longest length of
road within the system. A supervision fee, but no royalty, will be paid to the concessioning authority.
2.15   DAER determined the operation and maintenance parameters and the investments required over the
period of the concession on the basis of appropriate engineering and economic analyses, and estimated the
length of roads that could be effectively operated and maintained by the concessionaire of each system on
the basis of a financial feasibility analysis. The aggregated cost of operation and maintenance of the 2,500
km was estimated at about US$40 million equivalent per year. Emergency repairs, signalization and other
short term investments were estimated at about US$180 million equivalent, and rehabilitation and
improvements at about US$390 million over the first five years. The concession program has been
evaluated to be self-supporting, and should be sustained over the long term without subsidies from the State
Treasury. The Government is currently establishing a State Regulatory Agency to regulate and supervise
all the state's public service concessions, including roads, and to monitor concessionaire performance, as
specified in Law no. 10.931 of January 9, 1997. DAER will provide technical support to the regulatory
agency. The first concession contract (Gramado) has recently been awarded. Bids are currently being
evaluated for the other eight concessions. The highway concession program was appraised under the
recently-approved Rio Grande do Sul State Reform Loan (Report No. 6982-BR, pages 38-42). The
proposed project includes technical assistance and training of staff to assist DAER in providing the
necessary technical support to the regulatory agency (para. 3.07 and Annex 4).
F. The Reorganization of the State 'Highway Department
2.16   The State Highway Department (DAER), a state agency with moderate autonomy, is responsible
for administering the state's highway network.  DAER developed into a large, rather centralized
organization in the 1960s and 1970s to administer the state's road construction programs and to maintain
the road network by force account. In 1995, DAER had a staff of 4,200, many times more than necessary



- 12 -
if one considers the concession and contract maintenance programs. In addition, an inactive staff of about
3,800 retirees was also paid from the State Treasury. Altogether, DAER's payroll amounted to about 20%
of the operating budget. In 1996, about 800 staff left under the state government's incentive program for
voluntary separation; but further staff reductions are needed. The Government prepared a plan and is
committed to gradually reduce DAER staff to 1,500 by the end of 2002 (para. 3.08 and Annex 4, Table 2).
If an amendment to the National Constitution which is currently before the Congress to revise the terms of
job security for public servants is approved, the Government would be in a position to dismiss redundant
staff. Otherwise, the Government would develop and implement new incentive schemes for voluntary
retirement or separation.
2.17   DAER, like the other highway agencies in Brazil, which have been funded through earmnarked
revenues from road user taxes until the mid-1980s, never developed an effective capacity for economic
planning. Political considerations rather than economic analyses have often influenced DAER's
expenditure programs and priorities, which also contributed to discouraging planning efforts. In the course
of project preparation, however, DAER started to develop such planning capability to prepare and evaluate
road expenditure programs on the basis of appropriate economic criteria and methodologies. Similarly,
DAER will need to reorganize its operations in line with the above-mentioned policy changes, particularly
with regard to contract maintenance and concessions. In particular, the maintenance units will need to
gradually phase out their force account capacities and instead strengthen their contract management and
technical supervision capabilities. The proposed project would include technical assistance to help DAER
develop and effectively implement the above-mentioned reorganization (para. 3.08 and Annex 3).
2.18   The reorganization of DAER in order to be successfull will require the effective training of
DAER's management personnel and technical and administrative staff, emphasizing the following areas:
(a) network maintenance planning and management systems, techniques of network surveys and pavement
diagnosis, economic evaluation using the HDM-4 Model; (b) maintenance management systems, including
procurement, management and supervision of contracts, as well as monitoring of projects and programs; (c)
environmental management, including environmental cost-benefit analysis and dissemination of
environmental guidelines for highways; and (d) supervision and monitoring of concession contracts, and
related regulatory aspects. In the course of project preparation, DAER prepared a training plan for this
purpose. The project would include a training component to help DAER implement such plan (para. 3.08,
Annex 3).
G. Environmental and Safety Management
2.19   Brazil has appropriate environmental legislation which requires that any major civil works project
be subject to an appropriate environmental impact assessment to measure its effects on the inhabitants and
on the natural environment in the project area. The Ministry of Transport and DNER developed
environmental standards, norms and guidelines respectively for the transport sector and for the highway
subsector, and they strengthened sectoral capabilities for monitoring compliance with these standards under
the Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 3169-BR). On this basis, DAER has
developed environmental norms for state roads and has established an environmental unit, staffed with two
qualified specialists, in the engineering division of the Planning Department, to implement them. The unit
is responsible for supervising the preparation of environmental assessments and the implementation of
related prevention or mitigatory measures. The state environmental agency (FEPAM) has established a
small work group for reviewing DAER's environmental assessments, licensing and supervising the works,
and for enforcing the environmental regulations. The project would include technical assistance and
training of DAER and FEPAM staff to effectively implement the environmental norms and guidelines
(para. 3.16).



- 13 -
2.20   Traffic accidents in Rio Grande do Sul total nearly 6,400 every year, of which about 300 are fatal,
2,500 involve physical injuries and the remaining 3,600 result in material damage. The engineering designs
and technical specifications for the rehabilitation works under the proposed project would incorporate
appropriate safety standards, including adequate pavement markings and vertical signs with special safety
systems at intersections, bridge and town-crossings. Also, technical assistance is to be provided to DAER
under a recently-negotiated loan from the IDB for the development of an integrated highway safety program
and the relaterd training of DAER's staff. Apart from improving traffic safety standards in engineering
designs, the program will provide for the setting-up of a comprehensive and updated traffic accidents data
base, as well as the auditing for traffic safety of all road projects.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin, Objectives and Rationale
3.01   Project Origin. The project's concept originated from the combination of three main factors:
(a) the broad administrative decentralization, which Brazil initiated with the 1988 Constitution, combined
with the decision to reduce the federal network to interstate highways and to transfer other highways to
state jurisdictions, have increased the importance of the states in the management of the road network;
(b) the experience with the states' highway programs, gained under the Feeder Roads and the recent State
Highways Management Projects has highlighted the need to allocate adequate priority and resources to the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the state networks and to improve the effectiveness of the road
maintenance activities of state highway departments; and (c) the recent progress made by the Government
of Rio Grande do Sul in developing and starting up a broad reform of the state, which provides an
opportunity to reform the state's highway programs and agency.
3.02   Project Objectives. The project' s main objective is to improve the serviceability of the state
highway network with a view to reducing road transport costs, through:
(a)  more efficient resource allocation and use in the sector;
(b)  increased participation of the private sector in the management of roads;
(c)  improved capacity of DAER to manage the state's road programs; and
(d)  rehabilitation of selected sections and maintenance of the entire paved highway network of the
state.
Achievement of these objectives would be measured and monitored during implementation through a set of
key indicators (para. 4.09 and Annex 4, Table 2).
3.03   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's country assistance strategy for Brazil, discussed by
the Board of Executive Directors on June 29, 1995, with an update on June 20, 1996, identifies human
capital and infrastructure development as the principal bottlenecks to Brazil's social and economic
development. The emphasis is on structural reforms aimed at stabilization and resumption of broad-based
growth, including the deregulation and privatization of infrastructure services, efficient allocation of
resources in the public sector, and on rebuilding and expanding a deteriorated and insufficient
infrastructure in partnership with the private sector. The proposed project is fully supportive of this



- 14 -
strategy.  By helping develop and implement efficient state road policies and programs, including
concessions and contract maintenance, it would deepen the broader reform of the state in the roads sector,
thus complementing the State Reform Loan. By helping strengthen DAER's technical and management
capabilities, particularly for maintenance and concessions, the project would contribute to the highway
decentralization and concessioning objectives of the Federal Government, and complement the proposed
Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project.
B. Project Description
3.04   The project, a sector operation, would consist of:
(a)  a policy and institutional development component (2% of total project cost), including technical
assistance, equipment, software, and training of staff to: (i) prepare and monitor efficient state road
expenditure and funding programs (SRP) in accordance with policies, standard and economic
criteria satisfactory to the Bank, thereby strengthening DAER's planning, programming, budgeting
and monitoring systems; (ii) supervise and monitor the implementation of the state's highway
concession program and the transfer of maintenance activities to private contractors; and (iii)
restructure DAER's operations in accordance with the above policy changes, downsizing
operational divisions and strengthening technical, environmental, management and supervision
capabilities, and establishing clear goals and accountability to implement and monitor the state's
highway programs; and
(b)  a rehabilitation and maintenance component (98% of total project cost), consisting of the
rehabilitation, resurfacing, and routine maintenance components of the state's 1997-2001 road
programs, and related studies, engineering designs and works supervision.
(a)  Policy and Institutional Development
3.05   The policy and institutional development component would consist of technical assistance, training
of staff, equipment and software, which are necessary to implement appropriate action programs to achieve
the above-mentioned development objectives. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on: (a) the
objectives of the action programs (paras. 3.06-3.09); and (b) a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) detailing
the actions to be taken and the timetable (para. 4.03), and the monitoring indicators and targets (Annex 4,
Table 2), with reference to: (c) the Program Operational Manual (POM), satisfactory to the Bank, defining
the administrative procedures and technical and economic criteria and methodologies; and (d) the Terms of
Reference (TOR) for technical assistance and staff training (Annex 3).
3.06   Preparation and Monitoring of Efficient State Road Programs and Budgets. The objective of
this action program is to prepare and monitor efficient annual state road expenditure and funding programs
(SRP), in accordance with policies, standards and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank, ensuring
adequate priority to maintenance and rehabilitation, and thereby strengthening DAER's planning,
programniming, budgeting and monitoring systems. During project preparation, DAER developed efficient
maintenance policies and a five-year expenditure program using the HDM III model. On this basis, DAER
would prepare and evaluate each year the state's annual road program (SRP) and the individual
subprojects, taking into account implementation progress and funding expectations, in accordance with
policies and economic criteria included in the POM, satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would review the
SRPs and related analysis for quality assurance and to ensure that priorities remain adequate.



- 15 -
3.07   Monitoring of Concession and Contract Maintenance Programs. The objective of this action
program is to supervise and monitor the implementation of the state's highway concession program and the
gradual transfer of maintenance activities to private contractors. In the course of project preparation,
DAER developed a program to concession nine networks totaling about 2,500 km, including federal
highways delegated to the state; bids have been invited and are being evaluated. DAER also contracted out
the rehabilitation and maintenance for seven years of a network of about 300 km on a pilot basis through a
performance-type management contract. DAER would, with technical assistance provided under the
project, supervise and monitor the implementation of the concession program, supervise and evaluate the
pilot contract maintenance subproject, finalize its maintenance strategy on the basis of the results of the
pilot subproject, and monitor the transfer of network maintenance operations to private contractors.
3.08   Reorganization of DAER. The objective of this action program is to restructure DAER's
operations in accordance with the above policy changes, downsizing operational divisions, strengthening
technical, management and supervision capabilities, and establishing clear goals and accountability to
effectively implement and monitor the state's highway programs. DAER's management prepared a
preliminary organizational restructuring plan, including staff retrenchment targets. DAER, with technical
assistance provided under the project, will finalize the reorganization plan, including a staffing plan, a staff
training program, an inventory of physical assets, and an asset sales program.
3.09   Environmental Management. The objective of this action program is to effectively implement the
environmental norms and guidelines for the state roads which were prepared by DAER. For this purpose,
DAER has established an environmental unit and will strengthen it with technical assistance and through
staff training. The unit will be responsible for coordinating the preparation of environmental assessments
(EAs) and for supervising the implementation of the prevention and mitigatory measures. Also under the
project, the state's environmental agency (FEPAM), which has established a work group for roads projects,
will strengthen its supervision and enforcement capabilities with technical assistance and through
appropriate training of staff.
3.10   Project Management. In order to effectively coordinate the implementation of the project, DAER
would strengthen its Project Management Unit (PMU), which has effectively coordinated project
preparation, with technical assistance, and finalize its Computerized Project Management System (CPMS).
(b) Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
3.11   The rehabilitation and maintenance program would include rehabilitation and resurfacing works on
segments of the paved network, and routine maintenance activities on the entire paved network. In the
course of project preparation, DAER has developed appropriate network maintenance strategies with the
help of the HDM III model. The maintenance strategies for the paved network consist of carrying out:
(a) resurfacing works on paved sections which would otherwise soon reach a level of deterioration requiring
extensive rehabilitation, through appropriate slurry seal, surface treatment, or asphalt concrete overlay
techniques, depending upon traffic levels; (b) pavement rehabilitation works on sections which have already
reached or exceeded their lifetime, through appropriate techniques ranging from asphalt concrete overlays
to complete reconstruction of pavement; and (c) routine maintenance works as needed. The maintenance
and rehabilitation strategies are discussed and evaluated in Annex 2.



-16-
3.12    The state government intends to carry
out the entire rehabilitation program  over a            Table 3.1: Rehabitation and Maintenance Program
period of five years. The resulting five-year                        ifflometers)
program  is presented in Annex 2, and is   ConDonent           1997    1998   1999   2000    2001   Total
summarized in Table 3.1 herewith.   The   Rehabilitation         50      242    290    131      124    837
program  has an aggregated scope of about
2,540 km for rehabilitation and resurfacing,   Resusfacing       50      300    439    439      475  1,703
and the entire paved network for routine   Maintenance    6,000    6,200   6,400  6,600    6,800    n.a.
maintenance.       The   rehabilitation   and
maintenance program  will be reviewed and updated annually on the basis of the gradually improved
information and analytical tools of the pavement and mnaintenance planning systems, implementation
progress and updated funding expectations. They will be presented to the Bank for review as part of the
annual state road programs.
3.13    First-year program. The first-year program would include rehabilitation and resurfacing works
on the highest priority road sections which need urgent attention. It would consist of 19 subprojects
totaling about 463 km in length, and a total estimated cost of about US$25 million (Annex 2, section E).
The majority of these roads are located in the north and northeast part of the state, and presently carry
volumes of traffic ranging from 2,000 to 5,000 vehicles/day. They also exhibit high deflection, above 0.6
mm, and high roughness values, usually between 3.5 and 5 IRI. The works, which would be carried out
during 1997-1998, will generally consist of 4 to 8 cm thick asphalt concrete overlays. The increase in
structural strength provided by the overlays will help the pavements to withstand traffic loading over the
next 10 years.
C. Project Cost and Financing
3.14    The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$168 million equivalent, including US$120 million          Table 3.1: Estinated Project Costs and Financing
for rehabilitation and resurfacing, about US$32 million                (USS nmon equivalent)
for maintenance, and about US$16 million for studies,   component costa          Local  Foreign   Total
technical assistance, and training of staff. The foreign   Policy & Institutional
relgn Polic & Intitutonal1.9      1.8    3.7
exchange cost component is estimated at about US$62
million, or 37%, and the tax component at about
US$25 million, or 15%. The total project cost includes   Maintenance              25.0       7.0   32.0
physical contingencies for US$3.7 million or about 3%    Studies                   6.0       5.9   11.9
of  base  cost  of  rehabilitation  and  resurfacing   Total Base Cost            98.3      57.7  156.0
investments, and price contingencies for US$8.2 million                            2.2       1.5    3.7
(or about 6% of base cost of investments plus physical   Phfsical Conting.         2.2       12     8.2
contingencies)  estimated   on  the  basis  of  the   Pice Conting.                5.0       3.2    8.2
disbursement schedule and of a 2.3%  average annual   Total Cost                  105.5     62.4  167.9
price increase for both local and foreign expenditures   Financing Plan           Govt     Bank   Total
expressed in US dollars. Cost estimates for civil works   Total FIancing          97.9      70.0  167.9
are based on average per-kilometer costs supported by
engineering estimates and recen't contract prices. Cost estimates for consultant services are based on
prevailing local and foreign specialist-month rates, and those for training are based on unit prices of recent
contracts. Project cost estimates are detailed in Table 1, Annex 4, and are summarized in Table 3.1
herewith.



- 17-
3.15 The project would be financed from the proposed Bank loan of US$70 million (42% of project
cost) and from State Government counterpart funds (US$97.9 million or 58%). The project financing plan
is shown in Table 1, Annex 4, and is summarized in Table 3.1 above. The Bank loan would be disbursed
against: (a) rehabilitation and resurfacing works at the rate of 50% of total payments (US$60.0 million);
(b) supply of goods at the rate of 100% of foreign or local (ex-factory cost) expenditures and 85% of other
local expenditures (US$ 1.0 million); (c) studies at the rate of 50% of total payments (US$6.0 million); and
(d) technical assistance and training at the rate of 100% of total expenditures (US$3.0 million). The State
Government would fund 100% the maintenance of the network and provide counterpart funds for project
components partly financed by the Bank. Supplementary financing would be provided under the recently
approved Rio Grande do Sul State Reform Loan (Loan No. 4139) for the rehabilitation and resurfacing
works in an amount not exceeding US$15 million equivalent. Agreement was reached during loan
negotiations on: (a) Borrower guarantee of counterpart funds; and (b) in order to enable starting up urgent
rehabilitation works and technical assistance, retroactive financing, in an amount not exceeding US$7.0
million equivalent (10% of the loan amount), for works and consultant and training expenditures incurred
after March 1, 1997 and not earlier than twelve months before the signing of the loan agreement.
D. Environmental and Economic Analyses
3.16   Environmental Analysis. The project works, which consist of the maintenance and rehabilitation
of existing roads, would not have significant impacts on the environment. The project has been rated "B"
by the Bank for environmental assessment purposes.  The environmental impacts of road works are
primarily related to quarries and borrow pits, disposal of used pavement materials and other wastes, and
the activities of road crews. Prior to inviting bids, DAER will revise its norms and specifications for road
engineering and works in order to incorporate appropriate requirements for environmental quality of the
works, make payments to contractors subject to compliance with these requirements, and will carry out
adequate supervision and control. The institutional component of the project, by strengthening DAER's
environmental management capacity and FEPAM's road-related functions through technical assistance and
staff training, is expected to help prevent or mitigate the adverse environmental impacts of the state's road
programs, including their components which are not part of the proposed project.
3.17   Project Benefits. The objective of the project is to improve the serviceability of the state highway
network with a view to reduce the cost of road transport and consequently support the resumption of
growth in agriculture, industry and exports.  Road users, and producers and consumers of goods
transported by road, will benefit from reduced vehicle operating costs and from passenger time savings, as
well as from fewer accidents and improved comfort. DAER, the Government, and ultimately taxpayers
will benefit from the reduced recurrent costs of maintaining rehabilitated or resurfaced road sections, and
from highway concessions. Although they are not easily quantifiable, the benefits from economic growth
induced by the reduction of road transport and logistics costs could also be important, especially with the
new opportunities resulting from the Southern Cone Trade Agreement (MERCOSUR). Both the policy and
institutional and the rehabilitation and maintenance components of the project, which are not separable,
would contribute to the above benefits.
3.18   Economic Analysis. The design of the project was optimized through the economic analysis. The
methodology consisted in comparing the Net Present Value (NPV) of altemative network rehabilitation and
maintenance strategies and associated programs, and selecting the strategies which maximize the NPV
under various budget constraints. The costs and benefits of each altemative were quantified with the help
of the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Standards (HDM III) Model. The optimum rehabilitation
and maintenance strategy and associated program for the agreed budget constraint (US$25 million per
year) was then selected using the Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM) (Annex 2, sections A to C). The



- 18-
selected alternative would reduce the portion of the network in very poor condition (IRI superior to 5) from
5% to 2.5% and would increase the portion in good condition (IRI inferior to 3) from 52% to 85% at
project completion. If the project is not undertaken, the portion of the network in poor condition would
increase to about 50% by 2001, the vehicle operating costs would increase by over 10%, and the
subsequent costs of rehabilitation and maintenance of the network would be twice the costs of the project,
i.e. about US$50 million per year. Accounting only for the direct benefits, the project has an estimated Net
Present Value (NPV) of about US$615 million at a 12 percent discount rate, and an estimated Internal
Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of about 98 percent (Annex 2, sections D and E). The project costs
would have to be about eight times higher, or the project benefits eight times lower, than the appraisal
estimates for the NPV to become negative; these are highly unlikely scenarios.
E. Project Risks
3.19   Risks. The main risks are: (a) Government failure to provide the necessary counterpart funds,
especially in the event that the reform of the state is reversed; (b) DAER's ineffective management of the
project; and (c) unexpected problems, including legal challenges, in implementing the road concession
and/or contract maintenance programs. To minimize these risks, the experience acquired with completed
and ongoing highway projects has been incorporated in the project's design. In particular, the scope of the
project has been limited to the essential rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing road network,
excluding the highway sections which will be concessioned. Counterpart fund requirements will therefore
be minimal as compared to recent public expenditures in the sector. The recently-approved Rio Grande do
Sul State Reform Loan will also help ensure appropriate allocation of public resources, including
counterpart funds for the proposed project. A detailed Project Implementation Plan has been agreed on,
which includes organizational arrangements to strengthen DAER's key planning, management and control
systems, and well-defined indicators and conservative targets to monitor procurement, physical and
financial execution of work programs, network condition, and institutional performance. With the
proposed technical assistance and training program, DAER is expected to have adequate project
management and implementation capabilities. A comprehensive Program Operational Manual, improved
with the experience acquired under previous projects, will provide effective guidance for project
implementation. Annual reviews of the State's road expenditure and funding programs would be carried
out at the time of budget preparation to ensure adequate budget allocations. The Bank will have the right
to exercise appropriate remedies, including suspension of disbursements or cancellation, if the Borrower
defaults on the obligation to achieve the agreed targets.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. Institutional Responsibilities
4.01   The State Government, through the state road agency (DAER), would be directly responsible for
implementing the project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), including
organizational arrangements (section B), a Project Implementation Action Plan (section C), procurement
arrangements (section D), disbursement, accounting and audit arrangements (section E), and project
monitoring and reporting arrangements (section F), for which detailed guidelines are provided in the POM.
The Bank would monitor and supervise project implementation in accordance with the project monitoring
and supervision plan (section F). The Loan Agreement between the State of Rio Grande do Sul and the



- 19 -
Bank would specify all the above. The Federal Government would guarantee the loan through a Guarantee
Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank.
B. Organizational Arrangements
4.02   DAER has set up appropriate organizational arrangements to carry out the project. DAER has
established and would maintain an appropriately staffed Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a
qualified and experienced project manager, who reports directly to DAER's Director-General. DAER has
assigned and would maintain staff with adequate qualifications and experience to coordinate DAER's
technical support to the Government's highway concession program. DAER has also established an
environmental unit responsible for the implementation of the environmental norms and guidelines. With
these arrangements and the proposed technical assistance, DAER will have the capacity needed to carry out
the project efficiently. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that DAER would maintain
organizational arrangements for project execution satisfactory to the Bank, including: (a) a Project
Management Unit, with TOR and staffing, and headed by a project manager with qualifications and
experience, satisfactory to the Bank; (b) staff with adequate qualifications and experience for coordinating
DAER's technical support to the Government's highway concession program; and (c) an environmental
unit with adequately-trained professionals responsible for coordinating the implementation of the
enviromnental norms and guidelines.
C. Project Implementation Action Plan
4.03   The State Government is committed to carrying the project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Action Plan which is summarized hereafter, and with the project implementation
monitoring indicators and targets presented in Annex 5, Table 2. The actions summarized below have been
confirmed during loan negotiations:
(a) Preparation and Review of State Road Programs and Budgets
(i) DAER will: by April 30 of each year, carry out a survey of its road network's surface and
structural condition, traffic and accidents, and organize the results of such surveys in a
computerized road database, in accordance with guidelines set forth in the POM; and, by August
15 of each year, prepare the state road program (SRP) in accordance with policies and economic
criteria set forth in the POM, and with the annual physical implementation and funding targets set
forth in the PIP, and present such SRP together with the survey results to the Bank for comments,
and
(ii) The Borrower will take into account DAER's programs and the Bank's comments in preparing its
annual budget proposals, and DAER will implement the SRP so as to achieve the implementation
targets set forth in the PIP.
(b) Monitoring of Concession and Contract Maintenance Programs
(i) DAER will provide technical support to the Government's highway concession program, so as to
achieve the concession tendering targets set forth in the PIP; and
(ii) DAER will, by December 31, 1997, present to the Bank for comments a plan to contract out the
maintenance of the road network, and thereafter, taking into account the comments of the Bank,



- 20 -
carry out through private contractors the maintenance of an annually increasing portion of the
network under its jurisdiction in accordance with the targets set forth in the PIP.
(c)  Reorganization of DAER
(i) The Borrower will, by June 30, 1998, present to the Bank for comments a plan to restructure
DAER's operations, including a staffing plan, a training program, an inventory of DAER's
physical assets, an asset sales program, and a timetable, and thereafter implement it, taking into
account the Bank's comments; and
(ii) The Borrower will keep the total number of DAER staff within the agreed annually-decreasing
targets set forth in the PIP.
(d)  Strengthening of Environmental Management
(i) DAER will, prior to inviting bids for road works but in any event not later than December 31,
1997, put into effect environmental norms and guidelines for state roads, satisfactory to the Bank,
and incorporate these norms and guidelines in the general specifications for engineering and works
contracts; and
(ii) DAER, through its environmental unit, will ensure the effective implementation of the
environmental norms and guidelines, including the preparation of appropriate environmental impact
assessments for its major road projects.
(e) Project Management and Monitoring
(i) DAER will establish a computerized project management system to plan, monitor and report on
project implementation, in accordance with guidelines included in the POM, not later than 90 days
after the date of the loan effectiveness, and inform the Bank through quarterly progress reports, as
specified in the POM; and
(ii) in order to carry out the above action programs efficiently, DAER will, by December 31, 1997,
have contracted one or several consulting firms in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981) and on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(f)  Preparation and Economic Evaluation of Specific Investments
(i) DAER will select the road segments to be included in the annual rehabilitation and resurfacing
programs on the basis of the results of the surveys and the technical and economic criteria and
methodologies specified in the POM;
(ii) Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs, DAER will prepare and submit to the Bank draft
applications in a fortn specified in the POM providing information on each proposed investment in
the annual program. The Bank will approve the financing of the engineering designs under the loan
on the basis of a review of the draft applications;
(iii) After completing detailed engineering designs and prior to contracting the works, DAER will
finalize the applications as required to reflect the final engineering designs and cost estimates, and
present them to the Bank. The Bank will approve the financing of the investments under the loan



- 21 -
on the basis of the review of the final application forms. All the investments included in the
subprojects would have estimated internal economic rates of return exceeding 12 percent.
D. Procurement Arrangements
4.04   Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.1 hereafter.
4.05    All civil works estimated
to cost US$5 .0 million or more                              Table 4.1: Procurement Method
to cost US$5.0 million or more                ~~~~~~~(us$ million)i/
per contract would be procured
through International Competitive                                 ProcurementMethod-
Bidding  (ICB)  procedures,  in   Project Element           ICB     NCB      Other   n.bf.1i    Total
accordance with Bank Guidelines   Civil Works              60.0    57.0       3.0      32.0    152.0
and   using   relevant  standard                          (30.0)   (28.5)     (1.5)            (60.0)
bidding documents issued by the
Bank. Any modifications to such   Equipment                    -       -       1.0        -      1.0
documents   which   may   be                                                 (1.0)              (1.0)
necessary  would  have  to  be   Consultants & Training s      -       -      14.9        -      14.9
agreed  with the Bank.   Civil                               _       _        (90)      _       (9 0)
works estimated to cost between   Total
US$350,000 and US$5.0 million                               60.0    57.0     18.9      32.0    167.9
equivalent per contract, up to an   (Bankfinanced)         (30.0)   (28.5)    (11.5)      -    (70.0)
aggregate  amount of US$57.0   1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
million,  would   be   procured   2i Routine and perodic mainitenance works, not Bank-financed.
3/ Services contracted in accordance with Banik Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
through   National  Competitive   _
Bidding (NCB) procedures, based on standard bidding documents, which were approved by the Bank and
are included in the POM. Works estimated to cost less than US$350,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$3.0 million, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
price quotations from at least three eligible contractors. The value of individual civil works contracts is
expected to vary between US$0.3 and US$10.0 million (total cost about US$120.0 million). Miscellaneous
road laboratory and office equipment and software would be purchased by shopping on the basis of price
quotations from at least three eligible suppliers, when they cannot be packaged in contracts exceeding
US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million. NCB procedures would be used for contracts
for goods exceeding US$100,000 and below US$350,000 in the event that such contracts are required.
Consultants for detailed engineering, construction supervision, technical assistance and training programs
would be selected and engaged following Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981) and
the standard contract issued by the Bank would be used for complex, time-based assignments.
4.06   DAER is the principal implementing agency, responsible for carrying out the project, including all
procurement. DAER's organization for and experience with procurement were reviewed during appraisal
and found to be satisfactory. The Borrower's procurement law (Law no. 8.666 of June 21, 1993)
specifically authorizes executing agencies to procure goods and services financed by multilateral
institutions in accordance with the norms and procedures of the financial institutions. All ICB contracts,
the first two NCB contracts for civil works, all contracts for goods estimated at US$350,000 equivalent or
more, all contracts with consulting firms estimated at US$100,000 equivalent or more, and all contracts
with individual consultants estimated at US$50,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
all procurement documentation and decisions. These prior-review arrangements would cover contracts
totaling about 65% of the total cost of Bank-financed works, goods and services. The balance of contracts



- 22 -
would be subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank after contract award. Agreement was reached
with the Borrower during loan negotiations on the above procurement arrangements.
E. Disbursements, Accounting and Audit Arrangements
4.07   Within the 50% of cost sharing, net of taxes and duties, the Bank would disburse for: (a) civil
works, at the rate of 50% of total expenditures; (b) equipment, at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures
and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost, excluding taxes), and 85% of other local expenditures;
and (c) consultant services and staff training at the rates of 100% of expenditures for technical assistance
and training, and 50% of expenditures for studies, engineering designs and works supervision. The
allocations of the proceeds of each loan is shown in Table 3, Annex 4. Based upon experience with similar
projects and the relevant standard disbursement profile for highway projects, the implementation period for
the project is estimated at six years. The project completion date would be June 30, 2002, and the Closing
Date would be December 31, 2002. The loan disbursement schedule is shown in Table 4, Annex 4.
4.08   In order to reduce the interval during which the Borrowers would finance the Bank's share of
subproject cost with their own resources, the Borrower would establish a Special Account (SA) in US
dollars in a commercial bank to cover local and foreign currency expenditures of the project. The Bank
would deposit up to US$6.0 million in the SA. The Bank would replenish the SA for the amount of
withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrower. DAER has adequate
accounting control to enable disbursement to be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.
Supporting documentation with respect to expenditures against contracts valued at up to US$5.0 million
equivalent for civil works, US$350,000 equivalent for goods, and US$100,000 equivalent for consulting
firm services, and US$50,000 for individual consultants would be retained by DAER, be available for
inspection during project supervision missions, and be subject to auditing by DAER's extemal auditors.
Expenditures for contracts above these limits would be documented. During loan negotiations, agreement
would be sought with the Borrower on: (a) the above disbursement arrangements; and (b) DAER to retain
independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to audit the project accounts, Special Account and
Statements of Expenditures, and to furnish the auditors reports to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.
F. Monitoring and Supervision Plan
4.09   The Bank would monitor and supervise the implementation of the project in accordance with the
Monitoring and Supervision Plan presented in Annex 5. The Bank would monitor the implementation of
the project against the time schedule and the monitoring indicators and targets, which are set forth in the
PIP (Chart 1, Table 2, Annex 4). The estimates of Bank monitoring and supervision inputs into key
activities are shown in the Table 1, Annex 5.
4.10   DAER is developing and would establish an appropriate Computerized Project Management
System (CPMS) to manage the implementation of the project. The system is designed to produce adequate
information to report to DAER management, the Government, and to the Bank to permit effective
monitoring of project implementation against the agreed monitoring indicators and targets.  During
negotiations, agreement would be sought with the Borrower on: (a) the CPMS to be fully installed not later
than 90 days after the date of effectiveness of the loan ; and (b) quarterly progress reports satisfactory to
the Bank, to be sent not later than one month after the end of each quarter.



- 23 -
4.11   In supervising the implementation of the project, the Bank would in particular review the following
documents: (a) the state's annual road programs and budgets; (b) the applications forms for specific
investments included in the annual programs and related documentation; (c) procurement documentation for
contracts under the rehabilitation and resurfacing programs, ex-ante for all ICB-procured and the first two
NCB-procured contracts, and ex-post, on a sample basis, for other NCB-procured contracts; (d) terms of
reference, invitation letters, short-lists, proposal evaluation reports and draft contracts for consultant and
staff training services, in accordance with the prior-review thresholds set forth in para 4.06.
4.12   A comprehensive Mid-Term review of the implementation of the project would be carried out by
December 1999 or when 50 percent of the loan amount has been disbursed, whichever is earlier. The
review would cover all the agreed actions, target dates, and implementation indicators included in the PIP
and the status of compliance with all covenants of the Loan Agreement. Particular importance would be
given to: (a) the Borrower's commnitment to provide adequate funds for maintenance and rehabilitation;
(b) DAER's performance under the institutional development component, including staff reductions,
training and technical assistance; and (c) progress under the rehabilitation and maintenance programs. The
Borrower would be committed to implement all the proposed measures as necessary to ensure the efficient
completion of the project and the attainment of its objectives. The Bank would have the right to exercise
appropriate remedies if performance is not satisfactory.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government of Rio Grande do Sul on the
following:
(a)  preparation and annual review of the state road programs and budgets, and related policies,
criteria, and methodologies (paras. 3.06, 4.03 (a) and Table 2, Annex 4);
(b)  DAER to provide technical support for the highway concession program  and to increase
maintenance by contract, and related targets (paras. 3.07, 4.03 (b));
(c)  DAER to present and implement a restructuring plan and timetable, and to reduce staffing in
accordance with targets (paras. 3.08, 4.03 (c), Table 2, Annex 4);
(d)  DAER to put into effect environmental guidelines for state roads, and thereafter implement them
(paras. 3.08, 4.03 (d));
(e)  DAER to finalize its CPMS, contract technical assistance, and to implement annual training
programs, and related targets (paras. 3.09, 4.03 (e));
(f)  criteria and methodologies for selection, preparation and economic evaluation of project
investments (para. 4.03 (0);
(g)  Borrower's guarantees for counterpart funds, Federal Government guarantee for the loan, and
retroactive financing arrangements (para. 3.14);
(h)  organizational arrangements for project execution (para. 4.02);
(i)  Project Implementation Plan (para. 4.03 and Annex 4);



- 24 -
(j) procurement arrangements (paras. 4.04-4.06 and Annex 4);
(k)  disbursement, accounting and audit arrangements (paras. 4.07-4.08); and
(1)  monitoring and reporting arrangements, including implementation targets and mid-term review of
project implementation (paras. 4.09-4.12, Table 2 of Annex 4, and Annex 5).
5.02    Recommendation. Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$70 million equivalent to the State of Rio Grande do Sul of Brazil. The terms would be 15 years,
including the standard grace period, at the Bank's standard interest rate for fixed-rate single currency loans
in US dollars with an expected disbursement period of three to six years.



- 25 -                                 Annex 1
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Bank Experience with Highway Projects in Brazil
A. Highway Project Summaries
1.    The Bank approved twelve loans for highways and three loans for feeder roads in Brazil
between 1968 and 1991. This section provides a summary for each project.
2.    The First Highway Project (Loan 567-BR, US$26 million, October 1968) was instrumental in
setting the framework for Bank involvement in the Brazilian transport sector. Together with this loan,
the Bank reached agreement with the Government on a Plan of Action which included, among other
elements, the reorganization of DNER, the revision of road-user charges, the reduction of railway
deficits and the improvement of port administration. The project included detailed engineering,
construction, paving, and supervision of seven road sections totaling 429 km in four states. The
project was successfully completed in September 1972, about a year later than expected. The delay
was mainly due to design changes and problems with earthworks. Despite cost overruns in some
sections, total project costs were lower than anticipated. The audit reestimated rates of return for the
roads were, except for one road, equal to or higher than the appraisal estimates; they ranged from 14%
to 40% (PPAR No.626 dated Feb.12, 1976).
3.         The Second Highway Project (Loan 676-BR, US$100 million, May 1970) included
construction and paving of 2,136 km of roads, detailed engineering of 2,369 km, and feasibility studies
of 3,256 km. The project provided technical assistance to strengthen the planning and supervisory
capabilities of DNER. Problems were encountered during construction, and delays occurred. As a
result, the project was not completed until August 1976, two years behind schedule. Final cost was
about 6% above appraisal estimates. The audit rate of return for the project was higher than the
appraisal estimate (36% as against 27%), mainly because of much higher-than-anticipated traffic
growth. This was the first major road project carried out entirely by Brazilian firms under strict
specifications and quality controls agreed with the Bank. The experiences gained by the Brazilian
construction industry and DNER during the execution of the project were considerable, as
demonstrated by the performance of follow-up projects (PPAR No. 644, dated June 21, 1977, PCR
dated October 27, 1976).
4.    The Third and Fourth Highway Projects (Loan 813-BR, US$89 million, April 1972, and
Loan 854-BR, US$51 million, August 1972) included construction of 1,849 km, paving of 681 km of
roads, and related supervision. Civil works in both projects faced the same problems encountered
during the Second Highway Project. Completion of both projects, initially scheduled for 1976, was at
the end of 1977. Underestimation of physical quantities and acceleration of inflation in 1973 and 1974
caused substantial cost overruns. Reestimated rates of return, however, were considerably above
appraisal estimates: 45% and 29% against 25% and 16% respectively. The PPAR noted that
inadequate detailed engineering for these two projects contributed to substantial quantity and cost
increases. It also pointed out deficiencies in traffic forecasting (PCR dated May 30, 1978, PPAR No.
2571 of June 8, 1979).



- 26 -                                Annex 1
5.     The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR, US$110 million, January 1975) set the basis for
Bank involvement in road maintenance, rehabilitation and strengthening. The project included: (a)
construction and upgrading of 612 km of federal highways; (b) highway maintenance and rehabilitation
programs in the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul and technical assistance to DNER to
improve maintenance planning; (c) Phase I of a Weighing Station Program; (d) detailed engineering for
road construction, upgrading and rehabilitation; and (e) feasibility studies for three new highways
totaling about 900 km. The project achieved its original objective in upgrading, and increasing the
capacity of, congested road links included in the project, although these works were completed with
about three years' delay and substantial cost overuns. The technical assistance achieved less than
expected, partly because the systems developed by consultants were too complicated and did not take
local conditions into account. Largely because of inadequate preparation, the weigh bridge program
was delayed and only partially completed, with significant cost overuns (PCR dated May 8, 1985).
6.    The Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR, US$55 million, March 1976) was
conceived as a line of credit extended to Brazil's National Economic Development Bank, BNDES, to
finance about 50% of subloans extended by BNDES to state DERs or municipal road consortia to carry
out secondary and feeder road programs in support of agricultural production.  Subprojects were
prepared and evaluated in accordance with agreed and well-publicized criteria embodied in a manual.
The loan helped finance 18 subprojects in 12 States comprising 5,400 km of roads and 110 separate
bridges. The project was slow in starting because beneficiaries took more time than anticipated to
establish their working relationships with BNDES. Implementation has also been slowed by financial
problems, which were resolved through the Bank's Special Assistance Program, by providing
supplementary subloans under the Second Feeder Road Project. The project was completed in mid-
1984, with a three-and-a-half year delay (PCR dated June 14, 1985, PPAR dated September 23, 1986).
7.      The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR, US$114 million, August 1978) continued to
support rehabilitation and maintenance. The project included (a) rehabilitation of about 2,300 km of
paved federal highways and detailed engineering for another 3,000 km of rehabilitation works; (b) a
highway maintenance and rehabilitation program in the State of Parana; (c) Phase II of the Weighing
Station Program; and (d) consulting services to the Road Research Institute (IPR) to carry out research
on pavement overlay design and to GEIPOT to complete research on the Highway Design and
Maintenance Model.  Project implementation was delayed from the start,  because of lack of
counterpart funding, until mid-1983 when the Bank's Special Action Program, by increasing
disbursement percentages, helped the project to be completed in the second half of 1985. The weigh
bridge program remained incomplete. DNER's pavement research program, completed in late 1984,
introduced a new standard for pavement overlay design. DER-Parana's maintenance operations were
successfully strengthened (PCR dated March 20, 1987, PPAR dated November 16, 1989).
8.      The Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR, US$110 million, June 1979) was to
provide continuity to the program initiated by the First Project and implemented through BNDES. The
19 subprojects in 13 states together consisted of the construction or improvement of 255 road links
totaling about 4,900 km, and of the construction of 370 bridges. Lack of counterpart funds slowed
down implementation in 1982 and 1983. The Bank's Special Assistance Program helped resolve the
funding problems. Part of the loan was used to provide supplementary financing under the first
Project. The project was completed and the loan fully disbursed by the end of 1986, in line with the
appraisal schedule. By requiring economic analyses and appropriate engineering standards, the first
and second projects helped state road administrations improve planning, engineering and management
of feeder roads programs country-wide. But maintenance capabilities remained weak in many states
(PCR dated November 6, 1989, PPAR No. 9367 dated February 15, 1991).



- 27 -                                Annex 1
9.     The Northwest Region Development Program, Highway Project (Loan 2062-BR, US$240
million, November 1981), consisted of: (a) construction of the Campinas-Ariquemes section (about
1,084 km) of the Northwest Highway, BR-364; (b) strengthening of Rondonia State Highway
Department (DER-RO); and (c) construction and improvement of about 1,000 km of roads in the States
of Rondonia and Mato Grosso through BNDES' feeder roads program. The construction of the
Northwest Highway, after initial delays due to inadequate funding, accelerated in the second half of
1983 with the Bank's Special Action Program, and was completed in late 1984, one year ahead of
schedule. The program for strengthening the State Highway Department of Rondonia made little
progress due to delays in contracting the consultants and to subsequent suspension of disbursements for
delays under environmental components of the Northwest Region Development Program. The feeder
road component was completed on schedule. In mid-1985, the Bank agreed to re-allocate about US$60
million of loan savings for an emergency flood rehabilitation program in six Northeastern states, which
was completed by mid-1987. The highway project upgraded the region's transport system but the
Northwest Development Program, of which the project was only one component, failed in its basic
objective of harmoniously developing the region. The improvement of the highway and feeder roads
and failures or delays in implementing the environmental and indigenous people protection programs
under the associated projects led to a destructive and disordely colonization process, with long-term
damage to the environment, encroachment onto Amerindian and natural reserves, and concentration of
migrants in ill-equipped urban settlements (PCR dated April 15, 1991).
10.       The Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR, US$154 million, December 1982)
supported the continuation of the National Feeder Roads Program, administered by BNDES, including
strengthening of project management. The project was to build or improve 8,000 km of roads at a cost
of about US$500 million over the period 1983-mid 1989, and to improve the maintenance capability of
subborrowers through technical assistance for advisory services and training of staff . The project was
implemented expeditiously, within the original timeframe. Physical results exceeded targets by more
than 20%. Almost 10,000 km of roads were built or improved, 70% in the low income states in the
North, Northeast and Center-West regions. The three feeder roads projects helped develop state
capacities for preparing, evaluating and implementing feeder roads programs on the basis of
appropriate selection criteria and methodologies, and technical norms and standards.  BNDES
strengthened its management of the program, but the fiscal reform and decentralization introduced with
the 1988 constitution led to the termination of the program (PCR dated June 11, 1993).
11.       The Federal Highways Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR, US$210 million, June 1984)
supported DNER's 1984-1987 Investment Program, including highway rehabilitation, road safety,
training of DNER and state highway maintenance personnel, and technical assistance for a pavement
management system, an equipment management system, and highway research studies. Implementation
was expeditious, despite DNER budget cuts on several occasions.  Physical targets of highway
rehabilitation were exceeded by one-fifth. Procurement led to lower-than-expected bid prices but
subsequent contract modifications led to increased costs. The impact of road safety investments was
difficult to judge because of the absence of monitoring. The training program for the DERs was
successful, but DNER gave priority to physical investments over technical assistance, which had
minimum results (PCR dated June 15, 1992).
12.   The Sao Paulo State Highway Management Project (Loan 2830-BR, US$174 million, June
1987) comprised: (a) rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works on about 5,100 km of state
highways; (b) equipment rehabilitation; (c) training of highway staff; and (d) technical assistance for
transport sector policy, planning and operations, pavement and bridge management systems, and road
research. The project started only in July 1988 due to administrative difficulties for loan signing. It
made good progress until mid-1991, but remained virtually stalled until early 1995 due to the serious



- 28 -                                  Annex 1
financial difficulties of the state. Implementation resumed in 1995, after the state government cleared
significant arrears owed to contractors and the Bank extended the closing date to December 1995. The
scope of the project was reduced, and about US$32 million was canceled from the loan. In spite of the
implementation difficulties, 4,000 km of roads were rehabilitated, reducing the portion of the network
in poor condition from about 40% to 6%, and the institutional component was substantially completed
at closing (PCR dated October 25, 1996).
13.   The Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3169-BR, US$310 million,
February 1990, closed December 31, 1996) helped redefine the federal highway network, restructure
the national highway department, rehabilitate and maintain highways in major transport corridors,
improve sector policy formulation and strategic planning, and develop and improve compliance with
environmental standards in the transport sector.  Project startup was delayed by modifications
requested by the incoming government and approved by the Board. Implementation was affected by
Government stabilization efforts and consequent insufficient counterpart fund transfers.   But
implementation improved after the Bank increased disbursement percentages and canceled US$40
million from the loan in early 1995. The appraisal targets for the works were met or exceeded. The
policy and institutional component, which had been affected by the numerous changes of sector
administration, was also succesfully completed.
14.   The State Highway Management Project (Loans 3547-BR and 3548-BR, US$88 million,
December 1992) is helping rehabilitate and maintain the state highway networks in the states of Santa
Catarina and Alagoas, and to strengthen the state highway agencies' (DERs) planning, contract
maintenance and environmental management capabilities.   Both the physical and institutional
components of the Santa Catarina subproject have progressed satisfactorily in spite of the recent
financial difficulties of the state. But progress under the Alagoas subproject has been unsatisfactory.
Because of the financial difficulties of the State and insufficient counterpart funding in 1994-95, a
number of rehabilitation contracts had to be terminated. The subproject was restructured in early
1996, increasing disbursement percentages and cancelling US$18 million from the loan. The reforms
introduced by the state government in 1996 have enabled the works to be re-tendered and re-initiated in
accordance with the available counterpart funds. The institutional component, which initially made
slow progress due to the numerous changes of administration, is now progressing satisfactorily.
15.   The State Highway Management II Project (Loans 3713-BR, 3714-BR & 3715-BR, US$220
million,  March 1994) is assisting the states of Piaui, Tocantins and Maranhao to develop and
implement efficient road expenditure programs, with adequate priority to maintenance, and to
strengthen the planning, contract maintenance and environmental management capabilities of the states'
highway agencies. Project startup has been satisfactory in the three states. The monetary reform
introduced with the Plano Real in mid-1995, however, has substantially affected the financial capacities
of the states, particularly Piaui and, to a lesser extent, Maranhao. Implementation targets at the end of
1995 were substantially met in Tocantins. But the two subprojects in Piaui and Maranhao were
restructured in November 1995 in line with the states' financial capacities, reducing the upgrading and
paving targets while keeping maintenance and rehabilitation targets, canceling US$18 million from
each loan, and increasing disbursement percentages. With this project restructuring and the reform
measures introduced by the state governments, the performance of the two subprojects substantially
improved in 1996 and is now satisfactory.
B. Lessons Learned
15.   The following important lessons learned from the experience with the above projects have been
incorporated into the design and preparation of the proposed project.



- 29 -                                  Annex 1
16.   Counterpart Funding, Budgets. The counterpart funding problems have been recurrent and
have adversely affected the implementation of the physical investment components of most projects.
Government efforts to contain public expenditures in order to achieve important economic stabilization
objectives have been the main reasons. Despite the recent measures taken by the Government to give
the highest priority to Bank-financed projects, insufficient and unreliable counterpart transfers from the
Treasury have continued to affect project implementation. In addition, the budgetary process, which
enables the Congress to change individual allocations for specific road sections, often results in
inconsistent budgets and inefficient execution of contracts. In order to substantially reduce the impact
of such unreliable counterpart transfers on the execution of individual contracts and on project
implementation, disbursements could be made in quasi-tranches against eligible expenditures after
compliance with agreed physical and institutional implementation monitoring targets.
17.   Project Implementation Plan and Monitoring Indicators. With the exception of the recently
approved state highway management projects, the projects did not include detailed implementation
plans, appropriate indicators and targets, and computerized project management and monitoring
systems to effectively monitor project implementation, progress in fulfilling the development
objectives, and the performance of the implementing agency. As a consequence, project managers and
Bank supervision missions were unable to identify implementation delays and issues early enough to
seek timely remedial measures. The lack of detailed implementation plans, monitorable indicators and
adequate and timely project information was a major factor in the substantial delays encountered in
subproject/ investment engineering and procurement of contracts.
18.   Expenditure Planning and Programming, Network Management. The investments financed
under the highway and the feeder road projects have been justified in economic terms, and technical
solutions have been optimized at the level of each individual investment. But technical solutions and
priorities have not been optimized and justified from a network management perspective, taking into
account existing resource constraints. This shortcoming has led to substantial over-dimensioning of
individual investments, to the postponment of other essential expenditures, in particular maintenance,
and, as a consequence, to the deterioration of the overall network condition. It is therefore essential to
assess and compare alternative expenditure policies and strategies in order to optimize highway
expenditure programs and individual project investments on the basis of appropriate technical and
economic criteria and budget constraints. Experience was gained with the recent state highway projects
in carrying out regular network condition surveys, in establishing a network database, and in
optimizing expenditure strategies and programs using the Highway Design & Maintenance Standards
(HDM III) Model.
19.   Maintenance by Contract. Experience with earlier highway and feeder roads projects in
Brazil and worldwide has shown that highway maintenance, when carried out by force account, is
generally ineffective. In addition to the difficulties in ensuring the necessary and timely transfers of
resources from the Treasury, government road agencies have demonstrated their inability to effectively
manage the numerous activities, the personnel and the equipment required for highway maintenance.
Since the early 1980s, DNER has contracted out the (routine) maintenance of the federal highway
network, except for highways in Amazonia; the experience has been successful in ensuring the
effective delivery of routine maintenance services at reasonable costs.  The forms of contracts,
however, still require heavy supervision from DNER. New forms of (performance) contracts, which
would pay contractors on the basis of the level of service maintained rather than of the quantities of
work performed, could be more effective and should be tested. Also, the state highway agencies, most
of which still maintain their networks by force account, should now initiate contract maintenance
programs.



- 30 -                                 Annex 1
20.   Design and Implementation of Institutional Components. Borrowers and executing agencies
have generally given higher priority to physical investments than to the institutional components,
which often fell short of achieving their objectives. The frequent changes in sector administrations and
management personnel have been an important factor. But the scope and timetable of the agreed
institutional components have often been over-optimistic, and have underestimated the difficulties of
the reforms. In order to be effective, the institutional components of projects need to be focused on
addressing a few essential issues. Their design and timetables should be realistic, and based on a
detailed analysis of the capacities of the organizations to implement them. If possible, disbursements
for the physical components should be linked to progress made under the institutional components.
21.   Environmental Management.   The experience with the Northwest Region Development
Program showed that highway and feeder road investments can lead to significant long-term
environmental damage by enabling destructive and disorderly colonization and economic activities, if
the necessary measures to prevent or mitigate the potential adverse impacts are not promptly
implemented. Also, road works can have more direct adverse environmental effects, such as increased
soil erosion. The ongoing Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project has been successful in
developing and disseminating Environmental Guidelines for the transport sector and for the highway
subsector, and in training federal transport sector staff.  The recent State Highway Projects are
effectively helping participating state governments to establish appropriate road environmental
management capabilities. These efforts should be continued and expanded countrywide.



- 31 -                                  Annex 2
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of State Network Maintenance Policies and Program
A. Introduction
1.    In order to prepare the multi-year (1996-2001) road maintenance program and define adequate
budgetary needs as well as priorities for resource allocations, the State Road Department carried out an
economic evaluation of the paved state highway network, using the latest version of the Bank's Highway
Design and Maintenance Standard Model (HDM-III and HDM Manager) associated with the Highway
Sector Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM-HS).
2.     The HDM III is designed to make comparative cost estimates and economic evaluations of different
construction and maintenance options, including different staging strategies, either for a given road section
or an entire network. The model simulates total life cycle conditions and costs and provides economic
decision criteria for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives. The primary cost set for the life
cycle analysis includes the costs of road construction and maintenance and vehicle operating costs to which
travel time costs can be added as a special option. The concept can be simply outlined as follows:
determining costs, adding the set of costs over time and comparing the total cost streams for various
maintenance and construction alternatives. The basic data requirements are the road or network description,
construction options, maintenance standards and unit costs, vehicle characteristics and unit costs, traffic
volumes and projections, exogenous benefits and costs, analysis period and discount rates. The essential
references for understanding and running the model are contained in "The Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model. Model description and User's Manual" by Thawat Watanatada et al,
published for the World Bank in December 1987 by the John Hopkins University Press.
3.    The HDM Manager is a user-friendly shell environment developed over the last three years by the
World Bank for specific customized applications of HDM. For the economic evaluation of the federal
highway network, the latest version (Version 3) dated December 1994 was used in association with the full
HDM III software package. HDM Manager is designed to evaluate a set of road agency strategies,
including congestion analysis, applied to paved and unpaved roads. It stores the input data efficiently and
creates all the input files required by HDM. It then transfers, from within the shell, the data to HDM III
which in turn computes the road deterioration, the costs streams and the economic indicators used to
compare the set of strategies analyzed. Finally HDM Manager collects and presents the results in a
practical way. However, unlike the main HDM program, HDM Manager is not able to divide links into
sections and subsections, and execute only one link at a time using five alternative maintenance strategies
and up to seven vehicle types. For the calculation of vehicle operating costs, it uses the fundamental
equations derived from Brazil's experiments. Before running the HDM Model, HDM Manager requires the
user to define in succession (i) the discount rate, analysis period, initial year and currency, (ii) the road
characteristics, (iii) the vehicle fleet and (iv) the maintenance or construction strategies to be evaluated with
their respective unit costs.
4.    The EBM-HS Model is an analytical tool for optimizing multi-year programs of expenditures
under multiple budgetary constraints. Particularly useful when used in conjunction with the HDM program,
EBM-HS reads the project data generated by HDM III (as previously stored in an ASCII text file) and



- 32 -                                 Annex 2
finds the optimal maintenance policy (i.e., the policy that maximizes the net benefits) to be implemented,
under budgetary constraints. It is capable of handling up to 100 projects (i.e. maintenance, upgrading,
construction, widening, etc...) with 16 mutually exclusive alternatives. Each project-alternative having
annual values of economic costs and benefits as well as annual amounts of capital and recurrent resources
needed to implement the alternative, EBM-HS program, when given the optimization command, examines
the resources consumed and the Net Present Value (NPV) produced from the implementation of each
project alternative. With the constraint that it must choose only one alternative for each project, the
program selects the group of alternatives that produces the optimal total NPV for all projects within the
budget constraint limits which have been defined.
B. Methodology of Economic Evaluation
5.    The economic evaluation involved the following step-by-step procedure:
(i) update the road network inventory, according to a methodology designed to provide the minimum
but necessary amount of information on traffic, pavement condition and environmental parameters;
(ii) compile all the data collected from the inventory into a data base that enables the data to be sorted
and analyzed them in the most efficient manner;
(iii) identify and estimate the unit costs of the current and most effective maintenance and
rehabilitation (or upgrading) techniques compatible with current experience and material
resources;
(iv) analyze and determine the most probable budget constraint scenarios which the State Road
Department will experience during the next five years or so;
(v) on the basis of the information obtained from the inventory, design a matrix which would
disaggregate the road network into homogeneous groups of roads or links suitable for evaluation,
and formulate maintenance policy altematives for each one of these groups (or cells of the matrix);
(vi) calibrate the HDM  model to reflect modem  vehicle technology and specific pavement
deterioration pattems observed in the region; and
(vii) run the HDM Manager and EBM models to arrive at the optimum set of maintenance strategies
consistent with budget constraints, and the listing of priorities with corresponding expenditures for
the 1996-2001 period.
C. Basic Parameters and Assumptions used in the Analysis
6.    The basic parameters and assumptions used to run the HDM and EBM models are:
(a) Network conditions and characteristics, including traffic volumes, composition and growth;
(b)  Vehicle characteristics and operating unit costs;



-33 -                                  Annex 2
(c) Typical construction, overlay and maintenance techniques with their respective unit costs;
The values used for these parameters are given below. In addition, the following assumptions were made:
Discount rate = 12%; Analysis Period = 20 years; Traffic Growth = 3 % per year; Year 1 of
implementation = 1997; Generated Traffic = 0; Nature of benefits = reduced vehicle operating costs, time
savings of road users, and reduction in maintenance costs.
(a) Network Inventory
7.    The network inventory was made using methodologies for collecting information designed to be
consistent with the minimum requirements of the economic model to be used (HDM Manager), and also to
achieve speed at reasonable cost. The inventory covered both the paved and unpaved network and
comprised the following tasks:
(a) a definition (identification name, length, age of construction...) of individual homogeneous
segments forming the state network, based on archives available in the DAER;
(b) the quantification of the geometrical, structural and environmental parameters characterizing each
homogeneous segment, i.e., width of pavement and shoulders, pavement surface type, rainfall,
altitude and topography;
(c) visual assessment, on a continuous basis, of surface defects enabling the extent (%) of potholes and
cracking to be determiined for each homogeneous link;
(d) characterization of the pavement structure for each homogeneous link, including the definition of
the thickness and geotechnical nature of the materials forming that structure, as well as subgrade
California Bearing Ratio (CBR) values; this information being obtained either from existing files
or from a few pits dug in the pavements;
(e) continuous roughness measurements using calibrated response-type equipment (Mays meter);
(f) deflection and rut depth measurements at 50 m. intervals over the whole network, thus
enabling each uniform segment to be associated with representative values of deflection and rut
depth,
(g) and finally traffic counts, on each uniform section, of the network; the counts involving the
assessment of both the volumes and the distribution of vehicles by class; (annual traffic growth
projection figures being obtained from past records and/or predicted growth of other economic
indicators);
8.    The traffic data used were those of 1994; visual surveys and deflection measurements were made
in 1996, while the roughness measurements were carried out during the third quarter of 1995 (Charts 1, 2).
9.    Following the collection of data, all the informnation was compiled into a computerized data bank
designed to enable easy processing and consistency. The worksheets uniformly contained about 30 columns
representing the road and traffic conditions parameters required by HDM Manager, and as many rows as
individual road segments within the network. By and large, the average length of each individual section
varied from 10 km to 40 km. Once the information was entered in the data bank, it was analyzed, checked



- 34 -                                                 Annex 2
for consistency, sorted out and rearranged in larger homogeneous groups of roads having similar surface,
structural, traffic and environmental characteristics.
(b) Vehicle Characteristics and Operating Costs
10.      The vehicle characteristics, utilization and costs data necessary for estimating vehicle operating
costs are presented in Table 1 hereafter. Costs are given in economic terms, financial costs being about 1.7
times economic costs, on average.
Table 1: Vehicle Characteristics and Operating Costs
Car     Pick-tm      Bus      Light truck    Med. Truck    Heavy Truck        Articulated
Basic Characteristics
Gross Vehicle Weight (t)       1.2         1.8       10.9            6              12             40           25.200
ESA Factor/Veh                 0.0        0.01       0.5          0.10             6.7             12             10.0
No. of Axles                     2           2         2             2               2              3                5
No. of Tires                     4          4          6             4               6             10               18
No. of Passengers                2           1        40             0               0              0                0
Vehicle Utilization Data
Service life (yr.)              12          10        10            10              12             12               10
Hr. driven/year                400        700       1600          1000            1150           1150             1300
Km driven/year              30000       50000    100000          70000           80000          80000            90000
Annual Interest rate (%)        12          12        12            12              12             12               12
Economic Unit Costs
New Veh. cost (US$)          14000      26000      70000        350000           55000          70000           100000
New Tire cost (US$)             50         70        300           150             250            300              400
Maint.lab. cost (US$/hr)        10          10        10            10              10             10               10
Crew cost (US$/hr)               0          0          6             6               6              6                6
Pass.time cost (US$/hr)          0          0          0             0               0              0                0
Cargo cost (US$/hr)              0          0          0             0               0              0                0
Gas price (US$/liter)         0.50        0.50
Diesel price (US$/liter)                   0.3        0.3           0.3            0.3             0.3             0.3
Lubric.price (US$/liter)       2.4         2.4        2.4           2.4            2.4            2.4              2.4
(c) Unit Costs of Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Techniques                  Table 2 - Unit Costs of Maintenance and Rehabilitation Techniques
Madntenance and Rehablitation Operations   Financial Unit Costa (in USS/bn)
11.      Suitable unit costs derived from          Routine maintenance of unpaved roads              1,150
recent bid proposals were applied to the    Grading                                                  50
full range of maintenance, rehabilitation    Routinemaingteaneof paved roads                         1,/u.
techniques  and  upgrading   operations    Patching of paved roads                                   11.74/sq.m
envisaged by the analysis. They included    Slufyseal                                                14,350
Double surface treatment                         26,810
routine maintenance, grading, graveling    Asphalt concrete overlay, 4 cmn thick                     42,070
and  paving  for  unpaved  roads,  and    Asphalt concrete overlay, 5 cm thick                       48,370
resurfacing   (slurry      ~~Asphalt concrete overlay, 6 cmn thick            56,420
patching,   resurfaci         (slurry       seals,    Asphalt concre overlay, 8cm thick              72,170
single  or  double  surface  dressings),    Asphalt concrete overlay, 10 cm thick                    87,100
Reconstruction 12cm G+ Surf. Treat.              66,150
asphalt  concrete  overlays,  and  total    Reconstruction 12cm G+ 5cm AC                            82,180
reconstruction for paved roads. Table 2    Reconstructionwith l5cmG+ 5cm AC                          104,230
Reconsmtruction with 7.5BitMac+ 5AC               105,210
summarizes the techniques intended for    Upgrading and paving of unpaved roads                      150,000-400,000
use   and   their  financial  unit  costs



- 35 -                                 Annex 2
(economic costs are about 85% of financial costs). More generally, the following equations reflect the
average financial unit costs of asphalt concrete overlays, reconstruction and paving as a function of overlay
thickness (h,cm), and equivalent (granular) thickness (t,cm) of reconstructed or new pavement:
Cost of AC overlay/km    in US$      =        (7160*h) + 11,000
Cost of reconstructlkm   in US$      =        (474.4*t) - 8292
Cost of paving/km        in US$      =        2[(4478*t) + 16,0001 ('
Cost of paving/km        in US$      =        2[(4454*t) + 34,000] (2)
(') when wearing course is surface treatment, and (2) when it is 5cm of asphalt concrete.
The above costs include not only pavement execution but also drainage, pavement marking, and
environmental improvements. In the case of overlays, these additional costs represent between 15% and
30% of total costs. In the case of upgrading and paving which usually involve geometrical improvement
(earthworks) and substantial drainage and bridge rehabilitation, additional costs vary between 1/3 and 2/3
of total cost (on average one-half).
(d)    Budget Constraints
12.   The levels of budget constraints likely to be experienced during the next five years were assessed
on the basis of past allocations. Between 1991 and 1995 state transfers to DAER for current and capital
expenditures varied between US$107 million and US$215 million, of which 50% to 85% was invested in
the network. For the economic analysis five budget constraint scenarios were considered, varying between
a no-budget constraint hypothesis and a minimum of US$10 million per year. The actual budget value
taken into account for defining the 1997-2001 road rehabilitation program corresponds to US$25 million
each year during the five-year implementation period. These resources apply essentially to works, and do
not include personnel or administration costs of DAER, which on average will represent about 20% of total
expenditures. The following budget constraint scenarios were tested during the analysis:
Scenario A:   Unconstrained budget
Scenario B:   US$ 25 million each year, during 5 years
Scenario C:   US$ 20 million each year, during 5 years
Scenario D:   US$ 15 million each year, during 5 years
Scenario E:   US$ 10 million each year, during 5 years
Starting in year 6, the budget was left unconstrained in order to determine the level of expenditures
needed in the future. In addition, resource allocations for routine maintenance were left unconstrained.
(e)    Design of Analytical Matrices
13.   Prior to conducting the economic evaluation, two matrices were designed in order to disaggregate
the road network according to surface type. One matrix, the larger one, concerned the paved network and
included all pavements with asphalt concrete wearing courses on the one hand and on the other, all
pavements with surface treatments (Chart 3). The second matrix was designed to represent the unpaved
network.



- 36 -                                  Annex 2
14.   In addition to surface type, the following parameters were considered in designing the matrices:
(a)    maintenance condition of the paved network, including 4 rating categories: good, fair, critical,
and poor as a function of roughness, the thresholds used being respectively IRI < 2.5, 2.5< IRI <
3.5, 3.5 < IRI < 4.5, and IRI >4.5.
(b)    structural strength, including strong pavements with deflection less than 0.6 mm (or modified
structural number above 3.5), and weak pavements having mean deflection higher than 0.6 mm (or
modified structural number below 3.5);
(c)    traffic level, distinguishing seven classes for the paved network, namely : < 500, 500-1,000,
1,000-2,000, 2000-3000, 3,000-4,000, 4,000-7,000 and > 7,000 vehicles/day ; and 4 classes for
the unpaved network, i.e., <250, 250-500, 500-1,000, > 1,000.
15.    This breakdown gave rise to the identification of homogeneous groups of roads or links, suitable
for evaluation. By definition, each group, of a given total or accumulated length, normally falls within one
cell of the matrices as having similar characteristics and is to be subjected to a specific set of maintenance
policy alternatives, as described below. The matrix for paved roads comprised 56 cells, and the matrix for
the unpaved network comprised 4 cells, reflecting only the 4 traffic volume categories.
D. Program Evaluation
16.   The economic evaluation itself comprised six successive steps: (i) the calibration of the HDM
model; (ii) the formulation of maintenance policy alternatives for each cell of the matrix; (iii) the HDM
Manager runs at the link group (or cell) level, which allows for comparisons of the retums to be expected
from each maintenance strategy alternative; (iv) the EBM runs which optimize, at the network level, the set
of strategies analyzed by HDM Manager, taking into account various budget constraint scenarios; (v) the
selection of the set of strategies and priorities which are consistent with the predicted budget constraint
level; and (vi) a sensitivity and risk analysis for the selected strategy, to assess the impact of cost increases
and/or benefit decreases, as well as delay in implementation, upon the economic retums.
17.    Calibration of the VOC submodel. The vehicle operating cost submodel was calibrated by
updating vehicle costs and characteristics and by adjusting the maintenance parts equations of the HDM III
model to reflect modern vehicle technology. The recent HDM-4 international study indicates that the
maintenance parts equations of HDM-III over-estimates parts consumption for modem vehicles and there is
an inconsistency in the parts consumption rate (sensitivity of parts consumption to roughness) for
passenger cars that is significantly higher than for other vehicles and that this was probably due to the
types of vehicles used in the HDM-III study. Therefore, following the guidelines of the HDM-4 study, and
apart from discarding variation in costs for roughness level lower than 3 IRI, the maintenance parts
consumption for "new technology" vehicles was taken to be 75 per cent of the "old technology" vehicles
and the parts consumption rate for passenger cars was adjusted to be the same as for trucks. Thus, in the
table of optional parameters for the vehicle fleet data contained in HDM Manager, the default values of
32.49, 1.49, 8.61, and 13.94 used for the constant coefficient CPO in the exponential relationship between
spare parts consumption and roughness which applied respectively to light vehicles, light trucks, heavy
trucks and articulated trucks were replaced by 24.37, 1.128, 6.46, and 10.46. Similarly, for cars and
utilities the roughness coefficient CPq in the exponential relationship between spare part consumption and
roughness was reduced from 13.7 to a value of 9. The net impact of these changes is a 59% reduction in
roughness effect for light vehicles and about 42-43% for trucks. Other calibration adjustments made



- 37 -                                   Annex 2
referred essentially to the energy-efficiency factor and the hourly utilization ratios: the energy-efficiency
factor which directly affects the prediction of fuel consumption was adjusted by replacing the default value
of 1 (which applied to vehicles employed during the Brazil studies) by 0.8 in order to incorporate modem
and more fuel-efficient vehicles makes and models. The hourly utilization ratios which affect the prediction
of depreciation and interest were adjusted by replacing the default values of 0.60, 0.80, 0.75, 0.85
respectively used for cars, utilities, buses, and trucks, by 0.20, 0.30, 0.40, and 0.50. Finally, vehicle and
maintenance labor costs, and service life and hours driven per year were updated as shown in Table 1.
18.    Calibration of the Road Deterioration Submodel.  The road deterioration submodel was
calibrated by introducing equivalent standard axle factors for heavy vehicles that take into account the
overloading observed or expected to occur on the network. Also, for the assessment of pavement residual
strength and the prediction of roughness and other surface defects, deflection values effectively measured
on the network were given precedence over structural numbers estimated from theoretical material strength
coefficients. Considering the low values of deflection measured (about 85% less than 0.75 mm), this
approach resulted in modified sructural numbers greater than what would have been otherwise calculated,
and consequently to somewhat slower deterioration patterns. Finally, the roughness progression model was
adjusted by adopting an environment coefficient of 1.3 to take into account the specificities of regional
climatic conditions (subtropical, non-freezing).
19.    Formulation of Maintenance Alternatives. Strategies can be either scheduled in time or
responsive to a certain threshold of surface condition. For paved roads in good condition and low traffic
which do not need periodic maintenance actions in the near future, maintenance policies were scheduled to
occur in years 5, 7, 9, and 11. For medium to high traffic, the policies for these roads were triggered
sooner, in years 1, 3, 5, and 7. For paved roads in fair, critical or poor condition, and whatever the traffic,
periodic maintenance actions can be expected to be needed immediately or in the near future, and therefore
the strategies were scheduled to occur immediately (year 1 of the project). They were also allowed to be
slightly postponed to the third, fifth, or seventh year of the project in order to test the effect of
postponement on the economic returns. For unpaved roads, policies are either scheduled (for example, in
terms of time intervals between grading, or number of grading per year), or responsive (for example,
regraveling when gravel thickness falls below 5 cm). Upgrading and paving operations are generally
scheduled to take place either immediately or postponed to a few years later.
20.    For the paved network, the base strategy (alternative 1) included routine maintenance with 100%
patching of potholes and reconstruction when roughness reaches a very high level, i.e., 11 IRI. The other
four maintenance options to which each cell or group of homogeneous roads were subjected were generally
the following, depending on traffic level and the condition of the pavement:
(a) for pavements in good condition, resurfacing operations were tested, using slurry seals or thin to
medium asphalt concrete overlays, 4 and 5 cm thick;
(b) for pavements in fair or critical condition, medium to thick overlays were tested, with thicknesses
ranging between 4 and 8 cm;
(c) for pavements in poor condition, thick asphalt concrete overlays ranging from 5 cm to 10 cm in
thickness were analyzed, including reconstruction.



- 38 -                                    Annex 2
In all cases, future policies included routine maintenance and a 5 cm thick asphalt concrete overlay when
roughness reaches a value of 4 IRI.
21.    For the unpaved network and considering the relatively high level of traffic generally observed
(more than 100 vehicles per day), the base strategy consisted in carrying out routine maintenance and one
grading every 60 days. The other alternatives included grading every month with regraveling when residual
gravel thickness falls below 5 cm, and paving at different unit costs ranging between US$100,000 and
US$400,000/Ian.
E. Results of the Economic Evaluation
22.    The HDM study highlighted the magnitude
of the economic issue:                       Fg 1 Present Value of Net Benefts vs Annual
Expenditures
(i)    whatever the scenario, road users spend        650
annually to operate their vehicles on the   ,  600
state paved network an amount equivalent       550
to  the  capital  asset value  of that   X    500
infrastructure, i.e., about US$ 700 million  ° 450
(on the unpaved network, total annual          4.
vehicle operating costs amount to about               10      15      20      25
US$400 million);                                   Annual Expenditures (1997-2001) USSM
(ii)    depending on the maintenance strategy
and/or budget level invested on the paved    Fg2  PresentnValueofVOC&TimeSavings
network, the costs borne by the road-using            vs Annual Expenditures
public  for   vehicle  operation   and         800         E             ......
depreciation outweigh by far the costs      m  700
incurred by the government:  road users      E 600.*
spend between 30 and 70 times more,
depending  on  whether  budgets  are        M
constrained or not;                            300
0
)  ralsfecao va10  15    20      25
(iii)  regardless of the scenario envisaged, the         Annual Expenditures (1997-2001) US$M
economic return accrued to society from
maintaining the network is considerable: the
discounted  benefit/cost ratio, over an       Fg3 B/CRatiovsAnnualExpenditures
analysis period of twenty years, ranges       10
between 7 and 10 (Fig. 3);                     a-... ... . ....... .. .
(iv)   for every extra dollar invested by the      X6   .
govemment in rehabilitation works on the       4
network  (above  and  beyond  the past         2
expenditure level), the average road user      0
saves about three to five dollars in vehicle         10      15      20       25
operating cost (Fig. 8);                           Annual Expenditures (1997-2001) US$M



-39 -                                     Annex 2
(v)    the benefits taken into account are only the
savings in vehicle operation (about 90% of          Fig 4 ERR vs Annual Expenditure
total) and passenger time (about 10% of        140
total) and do not include other secondary      120
benefits such as reduced casualties or         100   l
property damages from  fewer accidents,         80 
increased comfort and convenience, or any   w  60
economic development impact.                    40
23.    More specifically, the analyses showed that      0
the optimum strategy for the rehabilitation of the         Annual xpenditure (1997-2001) US2M
paved  network  under a  no-budget constraint
scenario would be to invest at once an amount
equivalent to about US$120 million and to execute        Fi 5 Avrage IRI in 2001 vs Annual
most of the overlays and resurfacing works over                    Expenditure
nearly 2,500 km of roads during the first year of the  B
project.  That solution was discarded as being      c 5
impractical and inconsistent with DAER's annual     =
budget constraint or institutional capability, as well
as with the execution capacity of the local road    f 3
contracting industry;                                 2
0     10    15    20    25
24.    The nearest-to-optimum and more practical          Annual Expenditure (1997-2001) USSM
strategy consists in investing about US$25 million
per year over the next 5 years of implementation of  Fig 6 % in Poor Condition in 2001 vs Annual
the project. This strategy which is consistent with                Expenditure
DAER's  expected  resource  availability  was         o50
therefore retained to design the project. The present
40
value of vehicle operating cost and passenger time     30
savings discounted at 12%  per year is about        X  2
o 0
US$720 million. The project's Net Present Value
(NPV) is estimated at about US$615 million, its        10
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) at 98%            02
and its Benefit/Cost ratio (B/C) at 6.7 (Fig. 1-3).          0    10    15    20    25
Annual Expenditure (1997-2001) USSM
25.    Figures 1 to 7 illustrate the impact of
various investment levels made during the next five  Fig 7 Annual Resources needed for 2002-2015
years on Benefits, NPV, IERR, B/C as well as on           vs Annual Spending in 1997-2001
future annual investments required to maintain the  3 30 -
network on a sustainable basis. The effects on the  3  25 -
physical condition or on the, level of service of the
network of various budget scenarios (including a       20
do-nothing but routine maintenance scenario) are    3
also illustrated by Figures 9 and 10. Implementing  , 10
the project by investing US$25 million annually             0      10    15    20    25
over the next five years will help reduce the              Annual Spending In 1997-2001 USSM
proportion of roads in poor condition from a current



- 40 -                                   Annex 2
value of 9% to 4%/O, and to increase the proportion
of roads in good condition from an actual value of    Fig 8 USS saved/USS spent vs Annual Spending
about 25% to nearly 50% by the year 2001. All the    -         in 1997-2001
backlog will have been made up. Moreover, the    c 40
structural strength of the network will be increased    _&
by about 50%  (the average modified structural     3
number being raised from 2.8 to 4.6, as a result of    E 20
overlay operations), thus extending the residual life  Z   :o
of the network by at least 10 years. It is also    > 0
interesting to note that should the network be left  la  10      15      20      25
unattended over the next five years (except for            n
routine maintenance), the proportion of roads in
poor condition would increase dramatically to about
50% in 2001, requiring by then annual expenditures   Fig 9 Evolution of % in Poor conadition
of an amount equal to two-fold the amount resulting    .0       1996-2001
from implementing the project (Fig. 7). At the same    A  8
time, road users would see their cost increase by 10  6
to 20% over the same period.
26.   Sensitivity analyses show that an increase -  2
8
of 25% in investment costs would reduce NPV of    X.
the project from US$615 million to US$592 million        9     7    8    9 20   20
(about 4%) and the IERR from 99% to 82%. A                          Year
25% reduction in road user benefits (or traffic
volume) would cause NPV to drop to US$438           Fig 10 Evolution of % in Good Condition
million (about 28%) and IERR  to  77%. A         ,             1996-2001
simultaneous 25%  increase in cost and 25%      v5
decrease in benefits would result in a reduction of    r    F  -
NPV and IERR from US$615 million to US$416       0 40 -       
million (32%) and from 99% to 64% respectively.    X  30
0C
To switch to an NPV of zero i.e., to an IERR of    20!
12%, investment costs would have to be nearly eight   _
times their estimated values, or benefits would have  o    10  -     -
to be divided by the same factor                S      1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
Year
27.   The  most  likely  risk  in  project
implementation is the delay that may occur mainly as a result of untimely release of counterpart funds. The
analyses indicated that if execution of the project takes 6 to 8 years to complete instead of the anticipated 5
years as suggested by historical evidence from highway projects in Brazil, the project's NPV would be
reduced by no more than 10%. Assuming an extreme case of implementation period extending over 12 to
13 years would cause NPV to be reduced from US$615 million to US$434 million, i.e., by about 30%,
with still a very high rate of return.
28.   The following table summarizes the estimates of project benefits and costs, in economic and
financial terms.



- 41-                                   Annex 2
Table 3: Project Benefits and Costs
Present Value of Flows, US$M
Benefits and Costs                            Economic                  Financial
Costs                                            108                      127
Net Benefits                                     615                      922
Intern. Economic Rate of Return                  98
Benefit/Cost Ratio                               6.7
Note: Benefits are reductions in vehicle operating costs (about 90%) and passenger time savings (about 10%)
29.   The analyses performed also helped determine the most cost-effective maintenance and overlay
solutions to be applied to the paved network, considering the resources to be allocated. These technical
solutions which depend on traffic level and pavement condition have been incorporated into a Catalog of
Structures as shown in Chart 4. The catalog will be included in the Operational Manual of the project and
will be used to govern the design of resurfacing, overlay or reconstruction operations to be implemented
under the project. In addition to recommending optimum overlay solutions, the HDM/EBM model analyses
also indicated the order of priority in which the rehabilitation works should be executed. The year-to-year
programming of execution is shown in the Cost and Financing table.
30.   Although the Bank contribution to the project is intended to be used solely for the rehabilitation of
the paved network, the maintenance of the unpaved network (using local funds) will not be overlooked.
The HDM analyses indicated that for traffic levels of between 100 and 300 vehicles per day, grading at
intervals of 60 days including periodic regraveling is an acceptable maintenance policy.  The
implementation of that strategy will help reduce considerably road user costs on that network, from a
current value of about US$450 million per year to US$250 million.
31.   Finally, and considering the unit costs of paving in the state (which presently vary between about
US$160,000 and US$300,000 per kIn), the analyses indicated that the traffic thresholds that justify paving
(i.e., yielding a minimum rate of return of 12%), lie between 500 and 600 vehicles per day. More generally,
the following equation, derived from the analyses, gives, as a function of paving costs, the minimum daily
traffic volume that will ensure a zero NPV or an IERR of 12% for the investment:
Minimum ADT = (1.6*C) + 150
where C is the unit cost in US$ thousands per km of upgrading and paving.
F. Economic Analysis of First-Year Program
32.   The first-year rehabilitation program consists of the highest priority road sections identified by the
HDM/EBM analysis as those in need of urgent attention, and for which the investments to be made yield
the highest economic return (generally with ratios of NPV/Initial Capital Cost higher than 3 and NPV/km
greater than US$300,000). The total length of roads to be rehabilitated during the first year of the project
amounts to about 463 km, at a total estimated cost of US$25 million. Altogether, there are 19 sections
comprising the program, with individual lengths generally between 12 and 45 km. The majority of these



- 42 -                                                 Annex 2
roads are located in the north and north-east part of the state, and presently carry high volumes of traffic
ranging from 2,000 to 5,000 vehicles/day. They also exhibit high deflection, above 0.6 mm, and present
high roughness values, usually between 3.5 and 5 IRI. The rehabilitation works will consist generally in
asphalt concrete overlays with thickness varying between 4 and 8 cm. The increase in structural strength
provided by the overlays will help the pavements to withstand traffic loading over the next 10 years or so,
by which time a new overlay will need to be applied.
33.      The economic analysis of the first-year program  indicated that the NPV  of the investments is in the
order of US$336 million, with IERRs in the range of 50% to 150% (averaging 104%). An increase in
investment cost of 25% or a decrease in benefits of the same proportion will marginally affect the IERR,
causing it to drop to an average value of 70%. In Table 4 are listed the name of these road sections
together with their average characteristics, overlay thickness required and total estimated costs, as well as
the values obtained for the economic indicators (NPV and IERR).
Table 4: First-Year Program
HDM       Road ID                        Length,   Current   Current  Thick AC    Est. Tot.   IERR
Code        No          Road Section       Ion       ADT        IRI      reqd. cm    Cost USM     %       NPV, USSM
020030      RS1020     V.Alegre-Taquara-     47       12103       4.8         8          4.6        208         91.5
RS/030
453150      RST/453   BR407B.Goncal-          18      6167        4           8           1.3       159        29.8
Caravaggio
470400      RST/470   R5/359Veran-           33       2956        5.7         8          2.5        128        30.2
RS/431S.Valent
452010      RS/452     EntrRS122-Feliz-      28       3546        4.3         5           1.4       130         21.2
EntrBR/116
446010      RS/446     EntrRS/122-            17      5007        3.3         4          0.7        103         13.2
EntrBR/470
453230      RST1453   EntrRS/122-            7        4678        3           4          0.3        83          5.2
EntrBR/116
342150      RS/342     EntrBR2S5-            45       1970        4.3         5          2.2        128        34.4
EntrBR1S8
344110      RS/344     Girua-EntrRS/218      32       2616        4.3         5           1.6       104         17.2
Angelo
344150      RS/344     EntrRSI218-            10      2527        4.7         5          0.5        119        6.1
EntrBR/285
344100      RS/344     Entr RS162/Girua      21       2655        4.2         5          1          138         17.7
324210      RS/324     Marau-                29       2148        3           4          1.3        70          11.6
EntrRS/129Casca
404030      RS/404     Sarandi-              12       2338        3.7         4          0.5        156         12.2
EntrRS/143Rondin
128010      RS/128     EntrRS/129-           8        1653        4.7         5          0.4        62         2.1
EntrBR/386
324060      RS/324     RS/483(Palme)-         17      1499        5.2         5          0.8        143         13
RondaAlta
404050      RS/404     EntrRS/143-            14      1771        4           4          0.6        99         6.9
EntrRS/211/324
786050      RS/786     RS030(Tram)-          21       1665        4.1         4          0.9        61          5.1
RS/784(Cidre)
786090      RS/786     RS/784(Cid)-           10      1204        4.7         4          0.4        58          1.4
RS040(Pin)
014455      RST/101   Bacorapi-              82       1173        3.5         4          3.4        46          17
Solidao_Moatardas
014450      RST/101   Capivari-Palmares      12       1154        3.6         4          0.5        37          1.6
Total                                        463      2600        4           5          24.9       104        335.9



-43 -                                                              Annex 2
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Chart 1: Road Network Characteristics (1996)
Network Lenath per Surface                                                                      4860
Surface type       Length (km)         %                                                                                            _
Paved               4690            49E    4800
Gravel              4835            51%                                                       476
Total               9525           100%                                                       4700                             fl     i.
j .. 466060  -III
Paved              Gravel
Surface Type
Distributon of be and vwrina courses on n ved roads
Material       Base                               Wearing course                       E    3000
Length (km)        %          Length (iom)         %                       -   2000
Granular            3707            92%             0               0%
Soil cement   307    8%                             0               0%                           1000L ilili]
Asphalt concrete      0             0%             2347            58%                              O.
Surface treatment     0             0%             1667            42%                              0
Total               4014           100%            4014    *       100%                                     AsphaltConcrete   Surface Treatment
Type of Wearing Course
Evolution of uayed network over the last 30 veers
% increase                                              E     6000
Year       Length (km)      per year         km/yr                                  °    4000
1980          1979                                                                        2000i
1985          2423            5%              89                                          2000
1990          3981            13%            311                                                  1         1      1
1996          4690            3%              135                                                 1980  1995  1990  1996  2000
2000          5323            4%             360                                    0                           Year
Aae of paved network                                                                          2000
Year of construction   Age (yrs)  Length (km)         %                                             r---
1991-1996        0-5             367            9%                                    E1N0
1986-1990        5-10           1761            44%                                    . 1000
1981-1985       10-15           669             17%                                  '*     am                                     mm
1976-1980       15-20            640            16%                                1                                               M .,
1955-1975       20-40            577            14%
Total                          4014    *      100%                                |                0-5   5-10lge, *ars  15-    20-
Payed network structural sknath                                                               2000
Structutal Number   Length (km)        %
Ei ioo
1-1.5         1197            30%                                                  .
1.5-2         1643            41%                                                  -  1000
2-2.5          834            21%                                                   5       M 0
2.5-3          244            6%                                                          0
3-3.5          72              2%                                                             1-1.5  1.5-2  2-2.6  2.5-3  33.5  3.564
3.5-4          24              1%                                                |Structural Number
Total        4014    *      100%                                                  ______________________
Source DAER, Bank Mission 1996
* Were excluded from the analysis about 700 km of State Roads belonging to the concession program.



- 44 -                                                   Annex 2
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE IIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Chart 2: Network Condition and Traffic
Deflection distribution on Daved network
Deflection (mm)      Length (km)    %                                  2000
0-0.5                   1845       46%                               E
0.5-0.75                1644       41%                              s  150
0.75-1   400 10%                                                            [IiEiZ
1-1.25                  118         3%                              -   500
1.25-1.5                 7          0%
Total                   4014       100%                                        0-0.5  0.5-0.75   0.75-1   1-1.25   1.25-1.5
Rouahness distribution on the network                                                       Deflection, nin
Roughness (IRI)                 Paved                    Unpaved
Length (km)    %       Length (km)    %
2-3                     2488        62%                                2500
3-4                     1091       27%                               E 2000
4-5                     278         7%                              s 1600
5-6                      71         2%                               c 1000
6-8                      86         2%         714         15%      -J
8-10                     0          0%        3324        68%
10-15                    0          0%         845        17%             0_
15-20                    0          0%          0          0%                   2-3      3-4      4-5      5-6      648
Total                   4014       100%       4883        100%                             Roughness, IRI
Maintenance condition of the network
Surface condition                  Paved                 Unpaved       2000
Length (km)    %       Length (km)    %           1500
Good                    1045       26%         714        15%
Fair                    1985       49%        3324        68%          1000
Poor                    693        17%         845        17%           5
Verypoor                291         7%                            j     500
Total                   4014       100%       4883        100%            0                  1,I
Good        Fair      Poor    Very poor
Daily traffic distribution on the network                                                 Surface condition
ADT                                Paved                 Unpaved
Length (km)    %       Length (km)    %            1200
0-100                    19         0%         143         3%           1200
1000
100-200                 99          2%         973        20%       E
200-300                 189         5%        1170        24%             600
300-500                 534         13%       1321        27%            400
500-1000                992        25%         1171       24%        J   200
1000-2000               1084       27%         95          2%             0
2000-4000               690        17%          9          0%                0-i D0  100-  200-  300-  500- 1000- 2000- 4000-
4000-8000               407         10%                                             200  300  500  1000  2000  4000  8000
Total                   4014       100%       4883        100%                         Average Daily Traffic
Vehicle fleet distribution on the network
% Cars   % Pick-up    % Bus       % Small       % Medium   % Heavy  % Articulat.
truck          truck      truck       truck
Paved                  63.8        8.1         4.0         5.7            7.7         7.2        3.6
Unpaved                71.2         9.2        5.1         3.9            5.4        3.6         1.6
Combined               67.5         8.6        4.6         4.8            6.5         5.4        2.6
Source: DAER. Bank Mission 1996



- 45 -                                                  Annex 2
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Chart 3: Matrices of Paved Network Condition and Traffic
Traffic                               Pavement Condition
Intemnational Roughness Index, ]RI in rn/km
ADT           IRI < 2.5       2.5 < IRI <3.5    3.5 < IRI < 4.5       IRI > 4.5
Average Deflection, D in mm
D<0.6   D>0.6   D<0.6   D>0.6   D<0.6   D>0.6   D<0.6   D>0.6                Total
Length, km                                 length km    %
Network with Asohalt Concrete Wearing Course
< 500       73       30       54        56       7        12       0         0          232      9.9%
500-1000     100       18       183      180       10       45       2        39          577     24.6%
1000-2000     303       0       213       32       45       48        0       25          666    28.4%
2000-3000     114       9       109       34       15        3       33        53         370     15.8%
3000-4000      0       101       33       0         0        0        0        0          134      5.7%
4000-7000      16       0       139       33        0        9        0        16         213      9.1%
>7000        8        0        71       24        0        5        0        47          155     6.6%
Total      614       158      802      359      77       122       35       180        2347    100.0%
%        26.2%     6.7%    34.2%    15.3%     3.3%     5.2%     1.5%      7.7%       100.0%
Network with Surface Dressing Wearing Course
< 500       38       11       197      173       71       73        4       42          609     36.5%
500-1000      57       58       114      114       13       29       12       18          415     24.9%
1000-2000     29       53       150       8        98       80        0        0          418     25.1%
2000-3000      0       27        41       27       0        63        0        0          158      9.5%
3000-4000      0        0        0        0        28        0        0        0           28      1.7%
4000-7000      0        0        0        0        21       18        0        0           39      2.3%
> 7000       0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0            0      0.0%
Total      124       149      502      322      231      263       16       60         1667    100%
%      1 7.4%      8.9%    30.1%    19.3%    13.9%    15.8%     1.0%     3.6%        100.0%
Total Network
<500        '111    41       251      229       78       85        4       42          841     21.0%
500-1000     157       76       297      294      23        74       14       57          992     24.7%
1000-2000     332      53       363       40      143       128       0       25          1084    270%
2000-3000     114       36      150       61       15       66       33       53          528     13.2%
3000-4000      0       101       33       0        28        0        0        0          162      4.0%
4000-7000      16       0       139       33       21       27        0        16         252      6.3%
>7000        8        0        71       24        0        5        0        47          155     3.9%
Total      738       307     1304      681      308      385       51      240         4014    100.0%
%      1 18.4%     7.6%    32.5%    17.0%     7.7%     9.6%     1.3%     6.0%        100 0%
* Were excluded from the analysis about 700 km of State Roads belonging to the concession program.
ource: DAER, Bank Mission 1996



- 46-                                                  Annex 2
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Chart 4: Catalog of Overlay Solutions
Network with Asphalt Concrete Surfacing
TraMc                                         Paveient Condition
ADT             IRI < 2.5            2.5 < IRI < 3.5         3.5 < RI 4.5             IRI > 4.5
D 0<.6mm  0>0.6mm  D<0.6mm  D>0.6mm  D<0.6mm  D>0.6mm  D<0.6mm  D>0.6mm
A          B           C           D           E          F           G           H
4AC        4A    . 4    AC
< 500       RM          RM          RM         RM          RM                 I-h-
4AC                    4AC         SAC        REC
500-1000      RM          RM         RM                      RM                                L
.... .... 44AC         4AC         SAC        4AC         5AC         SAC
1000-2000     RM    .... .      .__.. _
4AC        4AC         4AC         SAC        5AC         8AC         SAC
2000-3000      RM
5AC        4AC                                         .._ SAC  AC.A...
3000-4000    ~                                                P           IEIE
4AC                     4AC        4AC                                10A S       REC
4      SAC     E~~~~~~~~.  .::.;..-....S
4000-7000
SA5A                               A           AA C         C AC        C          EC
Network with Surface Dressing Wearing Course
Trafffc                                       Pavemrnt Condition
ADT             IRI < 2.5            2.5 < IRI < 3.5         3.5 < RI 4.5             IRI > 4.5
D <0.6 mm ID>0.6mm  D<0.6mm  0D>0.6mm  D<0.6mm  D>0.6mm  D< 0.6mm  D>0.6mm
A          B           C           D          E           F           G           H
SAC        SAC
< 500    RM             RM          RM         RM          RM          RM    _              _
4AC        4AC         SAC         SAC        SAC
500-1000      RM          RM         _RM_____
4AC         4AC        4AC         4AC         5AC        6AC    :     AC
I1DD0-2000    RM_____                                                            - _  .      --._
SAC        4AC         4AC    . A        :    SAC         SAC         SAC
SAC  SAC      SAC         S~~~AC     IA           A
SAC0       =0-7       DOOO        R ItM  RM BAC  SAC    8 OAC  j.1
4000-7000     ItM         RM____ ___
Sourc: 5W,n.,,, M!-.-.!'I
Legend
RM         = Routine Maintenance
4,588      = cm thickness
AC         = Asphalt concrete
REC        = Reconstruction
= No road currently in that cell



-47 -                                 Annex 3
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Institutional Capacity, Technical Assistance and Training
A. Institutional Capacity Analysis
1.    To minimize project risks, an institutional capacity assessment was made during project
preparation, with special attention given to the institutional weaknesses existing within the State Road
Department. The following shortcomings were identified.
2.    The project being the first Bank-financed highway project to be executed by the DAER, the
agency is not yet fully familiar with Bank's requirements and procedures regarding procurement,
disbursement, financial reporting and auditing systems. There is therefore a need to strengthen the
capacity of the agency for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control mechanisms and
setting up a project management system capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding
project resources and expenditures, inputs and outcomes based upon appropriate accounting, auditing
and monitoring mechanisms.
3.    Although the project design was derived, with Bank's assistance, from a comprehensive HDM
economic evaluation which helped define a rational multi-year program of road rehabilitation and
maintenance with appropriate strategies and priorities based on a thorough network condition survey,
further enhancement of the agency's skills in using the economic model to improve, adjust, and update
the overall planning and programming of road activities in the future is needed.
4.    DAER has traditionally used force-account to cope with the routine maintenance of the road
network but has now decided to shift its policy towards more cost-effective maintenance execution
involving a greater participation of the private sector. To help DAER management achieve this
objective and meet the targets set out for maintenance by contract (measuring performance not by
quantity of works carried out but by level of services provided to the road users) the proficiency of the
agency in the design, procurement and supervision of contracted routine maintenance needs to be
increased.
5.    The ambitious scope of the State's road concession program will exert challenging demands on
the Road Department once concession contracts are underway.  The current capacity of the
organization to evaluate, supervise, monitor that program  is inadequate.  Further institutional
strengthening in this area is thus required.
6.    Although the rehabilitation works to be financed under this project are unlikely to have any
negative and substantial environmental impacts, the risks involved in the other upgrading and paving
programs of the State must not be overlooked. An adequate environmental mitigation, monitoring and
management plan must be established and for that, greater support to DAER environmental assessment
capacity needs to be provided.



- 48 -                                 Annex 3
7.    The results of the above-mentioned diagnosis served as a foundation to design the objectives
and tasks of the technical assistance needed to fill the institutional capacity gaps, described above.
B. Technical Assistance
8.    Consistent with the institutional environment assessment, technical assistance will be provided
under the project to strengthen the capacity of the State Road Department, and in particular the Project
Management Unit, in the following areas:
*  general program and project management
*  planning and programming supported by an adequate pavement management system
  development of road concession monitoring system
*  routine maintenance by contract
*  assessment and mitigation of environmental impact of roadworks.
9.    The assistance will be provided through the contracting of a consulting firm whose Terms of
Reference include, inter-alia, the following tasks and responsibilities:
(a) Develop and implement a computerized information system to adequately monitor the
implementation performance of the program, including assisting the road agency in: (a) the
selection, procurement and supervision of consultancy services needed for the final engineering
designs and supervision of the subproject roads included in the programs; (b) the contracting
and technical auditing of the firms that will carry out the rehabilitation works; (c) the
monitoring of project performance targets (physical, financial, institutional), as agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, and the identification of necessary adjustments in project design or
implementation.
(b) Develop and implement suitable accounting, financial and technical reporting and auditing
systems capable of providing periodically accurate information regarding project resources and
expenditures, progress and outcomes, all in accordance with Bank's Guidelines and in
compliance with the clauses and covenants stipulated in the loan agreement.
(c) Review and upgrade the technical manual and standard specifications currently used in the
State for roadworks, incorporating, in particular, appropriate environmental mitigation
measures or guidelines.
(d) Develop and implement a coherent road network management system including the
subnetworks to be rehabilitated, maintained under DAER authorities or concessioned to the
private sector.
(e) Assist in the elaboration of updated multi-year road investment and maintenance programs
based on renewed network condition and traffic surveys, and supported by HDM/EBM
economic evaluation.
(f) Assist in the design, procurement, implementation and monitoring of the program of routine
maintenance by contract, including a study on secured road maintenance financing
mechanisms.



- 49 -                                  Annex 3
(g) Assist and give support to the DAER Environmental Unit, including the review and/or
elaboration of norms, specifications and performance monitoring indicators related to the
environment and the promotion of studies regarding current or desirable future legislation.
(h) Prepare a comprehensive training program in all the areas in which skills need to be enhanced
and contribute to on-the-job training in its specialized field of expertise, as spelled out in
section C below.
(i) Develop and implement a computerized system for the management and monitoring of the
Road Concession Program, including the review of the concessionaires' work-program
proposals, assistance in the supervision and quality control of the works executed,
contributions to eventual studies of adjustments of toll rates, and the monitoring of the
operation of the concession complemented by adequately designed user satisfaction surveys.
C. Training Program
10.   Apart from other specific training activities, yet to be defined by the TA Consultant, and which
may involve participation of DAER staff to seminars and coursed provided abroad or locally, on-the-
job training included in the Terms of Reference of the TA Consultant will cover the following topics:
*  general concepts of program, project and contracts management
*  procurement and disbursement procedures and practices under Bank-financed loans
*  basic principles and practice of computer works
*  analysis of road engineering projects
* elaboration of multi-year program base on HDM/EBM economic evaluation
report writing
* works supervision (including maintenance activities), technical audits and quality control
environment-related topics
* toll concession systems currently in operation, abroad or locally
X management, supervision and monitoring of concession roads
* routine maintenance by contract (activity-based and performance-based systems).



-50 -                                                                      Annex 4
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 1. Project Cost and Financing
U.Cost                   Qu a nt it I t*                                    B a a e C o s t (US$ million     -   -Financing-
Co mno n                   h           IJS50D To 1mm  21W1   2                                1W7  1W 1S                                           2a ml  B  k X
RehabiliMtion
1.ScmACoverly           Km        48.0      581     35    150    185    106    105            1.7      7.2       8.9      5.1       5.0     27.9
2.8cmACoverwly          Km         72.0     154      15     60      74       5                1.1       4.3      5.3       0.4      0.0     11.1
3.22 cm. eqLjv. recoaL    Kim     82.0       39                             20      19        0.0       0.0      0.0      1.6       1.6      3.2
4.25cm.aqliv.reconst    KM        105.0      63             32      31                        0.0       3.4      3.3      0.0       0.0      6.6
Subtotal                           58.3     837      50    242    230    131    124           2s       14.9     17.5      7.1       6.6     4.81      50%
Resurfacing
5. SkrTySeeaI&r.T.      KIM        20.0       0                                               0.0       0.0      0.0      00        00       0.0
6.4cmACOverlay          Km         35.0    1703      50    300    439    439    475           1.8      10.5     15.4     15.4      16.6     59.6
Subtotal                          35.0    1703       50    300    439    439    475           1.8      10.5     15.4     I4        16.6     59.6      50%
Studies
7. er-nerngdesidg        Kn         2.5    2540    100    542    729    570    599             0.3      1.4      1.8       1.4      1.5       6.4
8.    _ircrnse _asesat  Mm          5.0     155      24      36      36     36      24         0.1      0.2      0.2       0.2      0.1       0.8
9.networksweys         OOOKin      30.0      50      10      10      10     10      10         0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       1.5
10. wod. supAsion        X         3.0%                                                        0.1      0.8      1.0       0.7      0.7      3.3
Subtotal                                                                                      0.8      Z        33       is        2.      11.9      50%
Institutlonul Strngthening
11. teiceal assitnce    MM           8      278      36      72     72      48      48        0.3       0.6      0.6       0.4      0.4      2.2
12.eqriment&solteare    Is         10.0     100      50      50                               0.5       0.5      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.0    100%
13. tringofstaff      tralnwe       0.6     850      50    200    200    200    200           0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.5
Subtotal                                                                                      0.8       1.2      0.7      0.5       0.5      3.7     100%
Bee Cost of Ilnemnt  Program                                                                   8.1     20.2     358.      25.5     26.3    124.0       51%
14. physicai conngrncies           3.0%                                                       0.2       0.9      1.1       0.8      0.8      3.7
15. pcecorgngarcies                                2.3%    2.3%    2.3%    2.3%    2.3%       0.1       1.0      2.2       2.1      2.8      8.2
Toatl Coat of investment Program (nl. contingoncIes)                                           6.4     31.1     40.1      28.4     30.0    135.9       51%
RoutIne Maintenance   (Paved Notwock)
16. cont"cted         iom           1.0   26000   3000   6200   6400   6600   6800             3.0      6.2      6.4       6.6      6.8     29.0
17.force account      kmt           1.0    3000   3000                                         3.0      00       0.0       0.0      0.0      3.0
Subtotal                                  29000   8000   6200   i400    N00    N00             .0       8.2      6.4       8J.      8.8      32.0
Project Total Coat                                                                            12.4     37.3     46.5      35.0     38.8    157.9
Fnincina Paln
Bank                                                                                           3.8     18.2     20.4      14.5     15.3     70.0      42%
categoy 1 (civtworks)                                                                        2.3      12.7     16.4     11.2      11.6     54.2
category 2 (eqipnentand soItwe)                                                              0.5       05       00       00        00      1.0
category 3 a(sldese andworm srvuplion)                                                       0.4       13       16       1.3       1.3      5.9
cataoy 3 b (tectdcal assista=c and tral")                                                    0.3       07       0.7      0.5       05       2.7
category 4 (llasocated)                                                                      0.1       1.0      1.7       15       1.9      6.1
Govornment                                                                                     38      21.1     26.0      20.5     21.5      97.9      58%
Soirce: DAER and Bank mission, 1997



- 51 -                                              Annex 4
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 2. Project Implementation Monitoring Indicators and Targets
ProaramlOblective            Indicators                    1997    1998      1999    2000    2001    2002
A. Development Objectives
a. Improve Conditbon of State Network
Condition of Paved Network   % length with IRI < 3          52.0    60.0      70.0    75.0    80.0    85.0
% length with IRI > 5          5.0      4.5      4.0      3.5      3.0      2.5
Condition of Unpaved Network    Average roughness (RI)      15.0    12.0      10.0      9.0      8.0     7.0
b. Increase Private Sector Operations and Investments
Concessions
Contract Maintenance - paved    % network length contracted           20        50      90      100      100
- unpaved    % network length contracted             20        40       70      90      100
c. Restructure DAER's Operations
Redimensioning of DAER Staff   DAER's Road Staff Number 2v    2100    1950   1850    1700    1600    1500
Recruitment of Technical Staff   Nb. of Staff Recruited (Cumul.)      60      100      130      140      150
Training of Staff            Nb. of Trainee-Weeks (Cumul.)   50      250      450      650      750      850
B. Implementation Progress
a. physical
Rehabilitation & Resurfacing  Contracted (km, cumulated)    350      900     1700    2300    2500    2500
Executed (km, cumulated)       100     600      1300    1900    2500    2500
Routine Maintenance          Patching (thousand m3)          20       23       20       17       15       13
Grading (thousand Km)           10      20        22       24       24      24
Regraveling (thousand m3)      100     250       400      500     500      500
b. flnancial
Rehabilitation & Resurfacing  State Transfers (US$million, cu  3.0    18.0    38.0    52.0    65.0    65.0
Maintenance Paved Network    State Transfers (USSmillion)    6.0     6.2       6.4      6.6      6.8     6.8
Loan Disbursements           (USSmillion equivalent)          3       20       40       55       70       70
Sources: DAER and Bank mission, 1997
I/ Loan Diabursement Targets are based on the best expected implementation performance and may be different from disbursement estimates based on standard Bank profile



-52 -                                                                Annex 4
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 3. DAER Revenues and Expenditures, 1981-2001
Executed                                                Projected
Components                              1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996j     1997        1998      1999     2000      2001      Total
Current Revenues
1.StateTransfers-Personnel              45.1   45.1   36.6   53.8   76.5   6d.0          64.0      62.0     60.0      58.0      56.0    300.0
2.              -Other                   3.2    5.8    4.9   14.1    8.7   12.1           5.3       2.7      0.3       0.0       0.0      8.3
subtotal State                          48.3   50.9   41.5   67.9   85.2   78.1          69.3      64.7     60.3      58.0      56.0    308.3
3. Tolls & Concessions                                           2.2    11.8   12.1      12.5      13.0     14.0      15.0      15.5     70.0
4. Others                                1.6    3.3    3.8    5.4    8.0    4.6           5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0       5.0     25.0
Subtotal                                49.9   54.2   45.3   75.5  105.0   94.8         86.8      82.7      79.3     78.0      76.5    403.3
Capital Revenues
5. State Transfers- IBRD Project                                                          3.0      15.0     19.7      14.0      14.2     65.9
6.              -IDB Project                                                             12.5      24.4     14.1      13.1      10.9     75.0
7.              -Construction Progra    116.1    81.5   61.9  117.4  110.0  117.0        25.0      20.0     20.0      20.0      25.0    110.0
subtotalState                          116.1    81.5   61.9  117.4  110.0  117.0         40.5      59.4     538       47.1      50.1    250.9
8. Borrowings - IBRD                                                                      3.6      16.2     20.4      14.5      15.3     70.0
9.          - IOB                                                                        18.9      51.9     31.6      28.5      19.1    150.0
10.         - JEXIM                                                                       6.4      27.4     17.6      15.4       8.2     75.0
subtotal Borrowings                      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          28.9      95.5     69.6      58.4      42.6    295.0
11. DAER Asset Sales                                            7.3    0.2               5.0      10.0      10.0     10.0       5.0      40.0
Subtotal                               116.1    81.5   61.9  124.7  110.2  117.0         74.4    164.9    133.4    115.5       97.7    585.9
Total Revenues                         166.0  135.7  107.2  200.2  215.2  211.8    161.2    247.6    212.7    193.5    174.2    989.2
Current Expenditures
12. Personnel                           23.4   23.5   19.0   28.0   39.8   34.3          32.9      28.5     23.7      18.5      154     119.0
13. Administration                       1.3    1.6    2.5    2.4    2.9    3.2           3.2      3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2     16.0
14. Debt Service                         6.3    3.2                                       7.6      6.6       4.3       5.1       5.7     29.3
15. Maintenance - paved network          4.6    4.7    6.5    6.3    7.7    4.0           6.0      6.2       64        6.6      6.8      32.0
16.            - unpaved network         4.6    4.7    6.5    6.3    7.7    4.0           6.0       5.7      5.4       5.1       4.8     27.0
Subtotal                               40.2   37.7   34.5   43.0   58.1   45.5          55.7      50.2      43.0     38.5      35.9    223.3
Pensions (DAER Retirees)                21.7   21.7   17.6   25.8   36.7   31.7          31.1      32.5     36.3      39.5     40.6    180.0
Capital Expenditures
17. Rehab. & Maint. (IBRD project)                                                       29.8     30.2      31.2      31.4     33.2    155.8
18. Paving (1DB project)                                                                 37.8    103.8      63.3      57.0     38.1    300.0
19. Construction & Paving (Govt)       106.5   83.5   62.6  165.4  106.3  117.0          30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0    150.0
Subtotal                              106.5   83.5   62.6  165.4  106.3  117.0          97.6    164.0    124.5    118.4    101.3    605.8
Total Expenditures                     168.4  142.9  114.7  234.2  201.1   194.2    184A          246.7    203.8    196.4    177.8   1009.1
Source: DAER and Bank mission, 1997
1/ Preliminary estimates



- 53 -                                Annex 4
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 4 - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount
Loan Category                              ($m on)  Disbursement Rates
1. Civil Works                                54.0   50% of total expenditures
2. Goods                                        1.0   100% of foreign expenditures,
85% of local expenditures
3. Studies                                      4.0   50% of total expenditures
4. Technical Assistance & Training              3.0   100% of total expenditures
5. Unallocated                                  8.0
Total                                        70.0
Table 5 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year         Disbursement                Cumulative Disbursements
Ouarter endin_          in Ouarter (US$m.)       (US$m.)             % of total
FY 1998
September 30, 1997 1/    2.0                      2.0                  3
December 31, 1997        2.0                      4.0                  6
March 31, 1998           2.0                      6.0                  9
June 30, 1998            4.0                      10.0                14
FY 1999
September 30, 1998       5.0                      15.0                21
December 31, 1998        5.0                     20.0                 29
March 31, 1999           5.0                     25.0                 36
June 30, 1999            5.0                     30.0                 43
FY 2000
September 30, 1999       5.0                     35.0                 50
December 31, 1999        5.0                     40.0                 57
March 31, 2000           5.0                     45.0                 64
June 30, 2000            4.0                      49.0                70
FY 2001
September 30, 2000       3.0                     52.0                 74
December 31, 2000        3.0                     55.0                 79
March 31, 2001           3.0                      58.0                83
June 30, 2001            3.0                      61.0                87
FY 2002
September 30, 2001       2.0                     63.0                 90
December 31, 2001        2.0                     65.0                 93
March 31, 2002           2.0                     67.0                 96
June 30, 2002            1.0                      68.0                97
FY 2003
September 30, 2002       1.0                     69.0                 99
December 31, 2002 2/     1.0                     70.0                100
Sources: DAER and Bank Mission, 1997
1/ includes initial deposits less than US$4.0 million into Special Account
2/ Loan Closing Date



- 54-                                                                  Annex 4
Rio GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Chart 1. Project Implementation Time Schedule
1997      |    1998        I    1909             2000             2001
ID  Task Name                                 Dur  Start  Finish  1020Q3|040Q1 Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1 Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1 |Q2Q3|04|1 Q2|Q3|Q4
I   LOAN APPROVAL                              98d   4125197      915197        _        .
2         Board Review and Approval             13d    4/25/97    5/13197
3         BACEN/Senate Review and Approva    30d    5/14197    6/24/97        .fl
4         Loan Signing                           Od   6/24/97    6/24/97
5         Legal Opinions                        45d   8125/97    8/26197
6         Loan Effectiveness                     Wd   8/26/97   8/2t/97
7         Project Launch Workshop                5d     9/1/97    9/S97
8   INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT                   499d    2V3197  12131/98   .I
9         Contract Technical Assistance        1 06d    23/97    6/30/97
I10        Establish CPMS                       9Wd     4v1t97     814197
11         Contract Organization Consultant     9W      3/3/97     7/4/97
12         Prepare Concession Division Organi   128d    717/97  12/31/97
13         Prepare Contract Maintenance Progr   128d    7/7/97   12/31/97
14         Finalize DAER Reorganization Plan    389d    717l97  1V3119  M_
16         Revise Specifications of Contracts   88d     S1/97      9/1/97                 .'                      
16   1997-98 WORKS PROGRAM                     521d     112V97  12131198      .
17         Contract Engineering Consultants     60d      1/2/97   3/26/97
18         Prepare Detailed Engineerng Desig    90d     4/1/97     6/4/97
19         Bid&ContractWorks                    90d     6/2/97    10/3/97
20         Supervise Works                     349d      9/1/97   12/31/98
21   1999WORKSPROGRAM                          521d      111198  12130199
22         Carry out Network Surveys            64d      1/1198   3/31/98
23         Prepare & Evaluate SRP               45d      4/1/98    6/28/
24         Bank Reviews & Approves SRP          1Od      6/3/98   6/16/98
28         Prepare Detailed Engineering Desig   60d    6/17/98     9/6/98
26         Bank Reviews & Approves Applicatio    Sd      9/9/98   9/15/98
27         Bid & Contract Works & Supervision   77d    9/16/98   12V31/98
28         Supervise Works                     260d      1/1/99   1230/99
2    1999 WORKS PROGRAM                        521 d     1/1199  12V29/00 
30         Carry out Network Surveys            63d      1/1/99   3/30/99
31         Prepare & Evaluate SRP               45d      4/1/99    6299
32         Bank Reviews & Approves SRP          10d      6/3/99    6/16/99
33         Prepare Detailed Engineering Desig   60d   6/17/99      9/8/99
34         Bank Reviews & Approves Applicato     Sd      9/9/99   9/1599      .
35         Bid & Contract Works &Supervision    77d    916/99   12131/99
36         Supervise Works                     260d      113100  12V29100
37   2000WORKSPROGRAM                          521d      1/1300  12V31101
38         Carry out Network Surveys            63d      1/3/00   3/29100
39         Prepare & Evaluate SRP               45d     400        6/2/00
40         Bank Reviews & Approves SRP          1Wd      6/5/00   6/1600 
41         Prepare Detailed Engineering Desig   60d   6/19/00      9/8/00      '
42         Bank Reviews & Approves Applicatio    Sd   9/11100    9/10oo0
43         Bid & Contract Works & Supervsion    77d    9/18/00     1//01.
44         Supervise Works                     259d      1/3/01   12V31101
Source: DAER and Bank Mission, 1997



- 55 -                                Annex 5
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Supervision and Monitoring Plan
1.    The State's Road Department (DAER), as part of the action program to strengthen contract
management and program monitoring, would establish an appropriate computerized system to monitor
the implementation of the project, including producing adequate information to report to DAER
management, the Government, and to the Bank, in accordance with the specifications included in the
POM. DAER would forward quarterly progress reports to the Bank, not later than one month after the
end of the quarter.
2.    The Bank, as part of its project supervision responsibilities, would review and comment on the
following documents: (a) state annual road programs (SRPs) and budgets; (b) subprojects applications and
related documentation; (c) annual procurement and execution programs; (d) procurement documentation
for all ICB and the first two NCB contracts for civil works; (e) terms of reference, invitation letters,
short-lists and draft contract for consultant services; and (f) the quarterly progress reports. The Bank
would approve all subprojects for financing under the loan on the basis of subproject applications
prepared in the agreed format included in the POM.
3.    The Bank would monitor project implementation against the PIP, including the sets of actions and
timetable, procurement, physical and financial execution targets, and development impact (Annex 5,
Table 2). A mid-term, detailed review of the implementation of the project would be carried out by the
end of 1999 or when 50% of the loan amount has been disbursed, whichever comes sooner. The review
would cover all the agreed actions, targets dates, and execution targets included in the PIP and the status
of compliance with all covenants of the Loan Agreement. Particular importance will be given to: (a) the
state governments' commitment to provide adequate funds for maintenance and rehabilitation, including
counterpart funds for the project; and (b) DAER's performance under the agreed institutional development
component. The Bank will have the right to exercise appropriate remedies, including suspension of
disbursements and termination of the loan, if the state government and/or DAER default under the
funding condition and/or DAER's performance is not satisfactory.
4.    The Bank will supervise and monitor the implementation of the project in accordance with the
Plan presented in this Annex. The estimates of Bank supervision inputs into key activities, which are
shown in the table of this annex.



- 56 -                                      Annex 5
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx. Dates     Key Activities                           Expected Skill Requirements
09/97            Project Launch Workshop                   Highway Engineer
review status of effectiveness, contracting   Transport Economist
of technical assistance and              Procurement Officer
1997-98 works programs and budgets.
01/98            Supervision Mission: review progress on   Highway Engineer
concession, maintenance & environmental   Transport Economist
programs, procurement of 1998 works.     Environment Specialist
06/98            Supervision Mission: review progress      Highway Engineer
under reorganization of DAER, and        Transport Economist
proposed 1 999 SRP and budget proposal.   Organization Specialist
1 2/98           Supervision Mission: review execution of    Highway Engineer
1 998 works and procurement of 1 999     Transport Economist
works, DAER's detailed organization plan.   Organization Specialist
06/99            Supervision Mission: review proposed      Highway Engineer
2000 SRP and budget proposal, and        Transport Economist
progress under concession and contract
maintenance programs.
12/99            Mid-Term Review: review progress under   Highway Engineer
TA, reorganization, training, engineering,    Transport Economist
and civil works programs, compliance with   Organization Specialist
covenants and monitoring indicators.
2000             Two Supervision Missions                  Highway Engineer
Transport Econ./Organiz. Spec.
2001             Two Supervision Missions                  Highway Engineer
Transport Econ./Organiz. Spec.
2002             Loan Closing                              Highway Engineer
(Project completion report)              Transport Economist
Total Staff Input                        90 staff-weeks



- 57 -                                                  Annex 6
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 1 - Transportation Expenditures by Model'
PASSENGER                            USSm.              CARGO                   USSm.
AIR                                    3360             AIR                      998
- Domestic                             1231             - Domestic               301
regular                              1160               regular                267
regional                               71               regional                14
- International                        2129             - International          696
AIRPORTS                                182             RAIL                    1659
- RFFSA                 999
RAIL                                    605             - FEPASA                 374
- Interurban                              3             - EFVM                   286
- Suburban                              350
- Metro                                 252             ROAD                   35245
- Truck               35245
ROAD                                 43267                urban                13917
- Bus                                  6177               intermunicipal       11120
urban                                3257               interstate+inl       10208
intermunicipal                       2115
interstate+intd                       804              PORTS (Portobras)       590
- Auto                                37090
WATER                  5479
- inland                141
- coastwise             533
- international        1905
TOTAL                     47414                    TOTAL           43970
" 1994 Estimate
GDP in 1994 reached US$ 430 billion, in US$ of June 1994
Sources:   Anuario Estatistico dos Transp. - GEIPOT - 1992/93
Perfil das Empresas Estatais - SEST/SEPLAN 1985
Empresas de Transporte Rodoviario - FIBGE 1990/92
Estudo sobre o Transporte Rodoviario de Cargo - GEINT 1995



- 58 -                                                              Annex 6
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 2 - Evolution of National and Transportation Aggregates
GROSS PRODUCT
GDP                                                                         DIESEL                  TKM            PASS.KM
YEAR                INDEX    A(ARIC.   INDUST                      SERVICES   TRANS.   CONSUMPTION    (GEIPl   (GEWT
1970                100          100            100               100              100           100                    100             100
1971                111          110            112               111              115           110                    109             113
1972                125          115            128               125              124           128                    115             129
1973                142           115           149                145             148           149                    133             147
1974                164          116            162               160              170           165                    159             167
1975                162          124            170               168              187           184                    174             190
1976                178           127           190                187             211           212                    189             217
1977                187          142            185               197              224           227                    208             253
1978                196          138           209                209              243           248                    225             289
1979                210          145           223                225              287           270                    247             328
1980                229          159           243                245              297           290                    208             374
1981                219          171           222                240              282           281                    209             389
1982                220          170           222                245              287           287                    287             405
1983                212          189           209                243              281           283                    268             421
1984                224          175           223                253              293           292                    296             438
1985                241          193           241                269              312           304                    327             456
1986                260          177           270                291              347           342                    355             476
1987                269          204           272                301              353           382                    379             493
1988                268          205           265                308              379           375                    403             510
1989                278          211           273                320              393           385                    411             533
1990                287          203           201                317              376           378                    423             552
1991                289          209           245                323              388           395                    448             573
1992                267          220           237                323              397           405                    427             589
1993                278          218           253                334              413
1994                294          235           270                348              430
GROWTH
RATE:
8.63         4.73          9.30               9.39             11.11         11.29                  10.40           14,09
70.80               1.54         2.52           0.29              2.81             2.80          2.68                   4.53            3.96
S0-90               2.45         3.75           1.92              2.29             3.28          3.58                   0.55            3.33
90-94
LAST YEAR                                                                                ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(10E9  (10E9
LASLTYEAR           (1990                                                                        (I 00 h)               TKM)            PASS.KCM)
V    LUTE            USSIm)      68334          178241            273813           20548         26410                  566078          684089
Sources: Anuurio Estatistico dos Trmportes - GEIPOT
AnuYio Esbtistico do CND
Anuario Estatistaco do Brail - IBGE



-59 -                                                            Annex 6
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Brazil's Highway Networks
Federal                   Sate
Length of Network, In km
_Pved   Unpaved        Total     Paved      Unpaved         Total
North    Rondonia            RO                 1,234        493       I,727        163        4,126       4,289
Acre               AC                   292        862       1,154         23          316         339
Amazonas           AM                   196       2,232      2,428        442          597        1,039
Roraima            RR                   350        900       1,250         59        1,618        1,677
Amapa              AP                   162        677         839       2,666       4,202        6,868
Para               PA                   640       3,162      3,802         40          439         479
Tocantins          TO                   787        856       1,643        878        6,306        7,184
North East  Maranhao           MA                 2,374        840       3,214       1,932       3,100        5,032
Piaui              Pi                 2,111        288       2,399       1,457       4,721        6,178
Ceara              CE                 2,040         184      2,224       3,838       3,370        7,208
Rio Gde Norte      RN                 1,302        185       1,487       2,346       1,689        4,035
Paraiba            PB                 1,216          2       1,218       1,731       2,615        4.346
Pernanbuco         PE                 2,480         107      2,587       2,678       2,064        4,742
Alagoas            AL                   722         49         771       1,515         734        2,249
Sergipe            SE                   319         -          319       1,524       1,143        2,667
Bahia              BA                 4,335        784       5,119       7,275       7,481       14,756
South East MinasGerais         MG                  9,307        668      9,975       8,645      11,493       20,138
Espiritu Santo     ES                   771          4         775       2,337       2.446        4,783
Rio de Janeiro     RJ                 1,581         21       1,602       2,420       2.399        4,819
Sao Paulo          SP                  1,146        -        1,146      16,552       2.093       18,645
South    Parana              PR                 3,212        204       3,416      9,608        2,190       11,798
Santa Catarina     SC                 2,077         172      2,249       2,995       2,780        5,775
RioGdeSul          RS                 5,158        348       5,506       4,120       4,994        9,114
CenterWest MatoGrossoSul    MS                     3,043        372       3,415      1,757       17,548       19,305
Mata Grosso        MT                 2,728        936       3,664       1,674       9,994       11,668
Goias              GO                 2,647        819       3,466       5,765      12,778       18,543
Distnito Federal   DF                   167         -          167        573          726        1,299
Total                                52,397      15,165     67,562     85,013      113,962      198,975
Surface Condition of Paved Network
Federal           State
Condit\on         km          %          km          %
Good             20604       44%       39525        50%
Fair             21119       45%       25296        32%
Poor             4999        11%        14230       18%
Total           46722       100%       79051       100%
Structural Strength and Age of the Paved Networks
Federal                  State
Strength           SNC               km          %          Age       Years        km           %
Weak               2.5-3              0          0%     Very young      0-5       18182         23%
Fair               3-4              2600         5%     Young          5-10       19763         25%
Strong             4-5              20800       40%    Old             10-15      22925        29%
Very strong        5-6              28600       55%    Very old        15-20      18161         23%
Total                               52000       100%                              79051        100%
Ttamc Volumes on the Paved Networks
Federal           State
ADT Range         km          %        South       North
0-500              0         0%          14         73
500-1000         9532        20%         24         25
1000-2000        14624      31%          27          2
2000-5000        17569       38%         20          0
>5000            5000        11%         15          0
Total            46725      100%



Length, km
Length of Network, km
RO-
=  2                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM
.. . .. . ... . . . . . .Z                                                         RR                                         . .   .
0.
0
To
MA0
Length, km                                            ___
CE
co                         ~~       ~        ~~RN                                          S            b
K                             -'                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~z
a                             II                            ~~ ~~~~~                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Pea  -
CL                                                                                                                              0~~~~'aa               E 
P. ~~~~*AL                                                                                                               -
ID          SE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
BA
i'I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           .u0~~~~~~  ..   ........
co                                 m~~~~~~~ (A   MG                                                                                     -
0                                                          c~~~~~~ 
C RJ                                      ~
SP
Length, km                                                     PR
0        0                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~z
6  0     0                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SC                  C
0                           Ms~~~~
<                                                                                     C M
-4  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ~~e              T
.                 . .. . . . .              . . . . .   . ..                                  . . .   .
0.~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~ ~~Go
*  r~~~~~~~~~
.......                                               D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F



- 61 -                                                           Annex 6
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Brazil's State Highway Networks
Length of Road Networks per State, by Surface Types
25,000
* Unpaved
: Paved
!          ~~~~Total *   i.d 35000 kmin, 43%...........-::  
20,000                                                                             .  . . ..  .-.       .    .  .:
Total Unp,ed:- 11400 km,               ':%
E
t'15,000_..:..
ti  10,000 .
5,000
Q > ; O < iK S~~~ z   m G                LU          LI      IL  cc       V) 2)        0     
North               North East             South East    South    I Center Wet
State
Surface Condition of the                   Age of Paved Network                     TratFic Volume on Paved
Paved Network                                                 -                           Roads
400                                       25000                  20%                so
30000                                     20000         23                                                  oit
20000~~~~~~~~~~50
3'  20000           1"                          50          0 "|:                    g40 
20
10000
*                                                                              0
0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~o-soo 500- 1000. 2000.. >5000
Good    Fair   Poor                            a             .a                        1000 2000 5000
ADT Range
Maintenance Condition                     Year since Construction



- 62 -                                                       Annex 6
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 6 - Brazil's Road User Charges
TAX or CHARGE         TAX BASE          RATES    REVENUES"'l                      BENEFICIARIES
(US$ million)      FEDERATION   STATES    MUNICIPIOS
1.   Vehicle Ownership    All motor-            2-3%(2)       2,240              -            50%            50%
Tax (IPVA)            vehicles
2.   Petroleum Import       Petroleum             18%          810             100%             -
Tax (IPI)             imports
3    Value Added Tax         Interstate/          17%          740               -            75%            25%
(ICMS)                Intermunicipal
transport
services
alcohol,            17%( )       4,930               -            75%           25%
diesel,
gasoline
4.   Sales Tax              gasoline and           3%          385               -              -            100%
(IVVC)                alcohol
Municipal tax on      (diesel-oil
alcohol and gasoline   exempted)
sales
5.   Tolls                  vehicles on              (2)       140              60%            40%
specific
highways
-    Total Annual                                             9,245             895           5,430         2,920
Revenues (US$
million)
-     Annual Network                                          5,160             660           1R975         2,525
Operation,
Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Costs
Revenue/                                                 1.8               1.4           2.7            1.2
Expenditure Ratios
Sources: GEIPOT and Mission Estimates
[I]     Estimate of Revenues (1995 data)
[2]     Rates vary with type of vehicles and states.
[3]     Some states have increased this rate to 25%



- 63 -                           Annex 7
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Borrower Documents
1.    Normas Ambientais Para Empreendimentos Rodoviarios, DAER, Fev. 1997
2.     Lei No. 10.931. Criagao da Agencia Estadual de Regulagao dos Servicos
Publicos Delegados do Rio Grande do Sul (AGERGS), Janeiro 1997
3.     Edital Projeto Piloto Conservagao Contrada DAER, Outubro 1996
4.     Programa Estadual de Concessao Rodoviaria Relatorio dos Estudos, DAER,
Junho 1995
5.     Programa Estadual de Concessao Rodoviaria, Coordenagao dos Projetos
DAER, Janeiro 1997
6.     Programa Estadual de Concessao Rodoviaria, Projeto de Engenharia
Economica dos Polos de Concessao, Setembro 1996
7.     Selecao de Empresa de Consultoria Para Elaboragao de Programa de
Explora,ao de Rodovia com Projeto Basico, DAER, Janeiro 1997
8.     Reforma Financeira e Institucional de Conservacao, DAER, 1996
9.     Pre-Gerencia de Pavimento, Projeto Vizir, Levantamento Visual da Rede e
estimativa das necesidades de Conservacao, DAER, Julho 1995
10.   Informacoes sobre Rede Rodoviaria Estadual nao Pavimentada, DAER 1996
11.   Proposta Preliminar Para a Reforma Institucional e Financeira da
Conservacao Viaria no Estado do Rio Grande do Sul, IRF GTZ, Set. 1995
12.    Carta-Convite Para Contratacao de Consultoria Para Assistencia Tecnica,
1997
13.   Carta-Convite Para Contratacao de Consultoria Para a Elaboracao de
Projetos Finais de Engenharia, 1997
14.    Restruturacao do DAER, Acoes da Secretaria dos Transportes, Agosto 1995
15.    Normas e lnstrucao de Servicos Complementares (Projeto Geometrico,
Calculo de Viabilidade Economica, Dimensionamente de Recapeamentos e
Reforcos) DAER, Marco 1994
16.    Avaliacao Economica do Prograrno do Primeiro Ano, DAER, Outubro 1996



I



IBRD 28663
27-           57'                   56                    55'                   54'                    53'                 52'                   5;°                   50-
27-  -                        BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL
STATE HIGHWAY MAANAGEMENT
A R G E N T I N A                                                                  ta'tk c ATA RI NPA pROJECT
PROJECT ROADS:
I15T-2ND YEAR REHABIUTATION PROGRAM
28z                                                                                                                              28-                         3RD YEAR RERA81LFTATION PROGRAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3DYERERIBIITTONPOGA
Fu                                                                       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TH YEAR REHABIUTATION PROGRAM
5TH YEAR REHRARIUTATION PROGRtAM
-MAIN ROADS
Ai ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-SECONDARY ROADS
PORTS
C   SELECTED CIMES
0    STATE CAPiTAL
-  329,8 to^ A , l \ 294 T t w                                                                                                                                                           -        3       2-- RIVERlASN4} g P4RA $I
SO.S.90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  STATE BOUJNDARIES
u   R   U   G  u  A  Y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~si                                                      d. P 'A \ o
30'                                        CeAEGRE
do$ 1                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30*
I'                                                                                                                                                                                  315  -                     GUYANA
VENEZUELA  ?       SURINAME
*6 :.-k,            "'    GUIANA
P.6. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~or
AT '4 T I>                                   ~          PP               E
-32                                                                                                                                                                A                          "3C-          RA ZV 
URUGUAY                                              1007                                                                                                                                                 B~
PERU                    T
-~BOLIVIAVNA
20-~~~~~~~00
- 33;                                                                                                                                 33'       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHILE,!  '  JANEIOO
IS 250 AS 60 75 9033
-,hk - d.  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -.f ~~~~~~~~~. I~~~~~W S"0cOflA                                                                                                           ATLANTIC
57'  16'     IA'                  53'                 52'                 Si-                 50,                  49-                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URUGUAY~.
I   I                  I                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT__ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APRIL 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:        16328    BR
Type:      SAR



