Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4165-BR
-   
Loan Agreement
(Rio Grande do Sul State Highway Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Dated May 22, 1998
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO 
SUL (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee certain  obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as 
set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, with the modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (d) at 
any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall 
remain unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Central Bank” means Banco Central do Brasil, the Central 
Bank of Brazil, established pursuant Law No. 4,595, of December 31, 1964;
(b)
“DAER” means Departamento Autônomo de Estradas de Rodagem do 
Estado do Rio Grande do Sul, the Borrower's Roads Department;
(c)
“DAER Contractual Arrangements” means the contractual 
arrangements entered into between the Borrower and DAER on March 14, 
1997, and referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(d)
“DNER” means Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem, 
the Guarantor’s Roads Department;
(e)
“Environmental Guidelines” means the Borrower's guidelines 
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual issued by 
DNER in May 1994, containing procedures, guidelines, methodologies and 
standard documents to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Project, as the same may be adjusted from time to time by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(g)
“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 10,555 of May 2, 
1994;
(h)
“Project Monitoring Letter” means the letter dated March 19, 
1997 delivered by the Borrower to the Bank, setting forth the indicators 
and targets to be used in monitoring the progress of the implementation 
of the Project and in the evaluation of its results;
Page  3
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“State Road Program” means any of the annual programs 
prepared by the Borrower, as referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of this 
Agreement, for its road subsector, including the corresponding 
expenditures and funding programs (including Subprojects, as such term is 
hereinafter defined); and
(k)
“Subproject” means a specific investment project consisting 
of rehabilitation or  resurfacing of segments of the Borrower's road 
network which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual and has been approved by the Bank for financing under the Project, 
after reviewing the information to be provided by DAER on each such 
Subproject, pursuant to Sections 3.11 and 3.12 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to seventy million Dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08.  The Secretary of Transportation of the Borrower, and 
the person or persons designated in writing by such Secretary, are 
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DAER, pursuant to 
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (the DAER Contractual 
Arrangements); all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with: (i) the Operational Manual; (ii) the relevant State Road Program, 
as referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement; and (iii) 
appropriate engineering, administrative, financial, safety, 
environmental, and maintenance practices, and substantially in accordance 
with the targets set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain, until completion of the Project, within DAER, a 
Project management unit (PMU) with adequate structure, functions and 
respon-sibilities, including, inter alia: (i)  overall coordination and 
supervision of the execution of the Project; and (ii)  supervision of the 
procurement of goods and works and the selection of consultants under the 
Project; 
(b)
through DAER, ensure that: (i) the PMU is at all times 
headed by a Project manager, with qualifications, experience, functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified 
staff in adequate numbers; and (ii) such Project manager directly reports 
to DAER’s Diretor-Geral;
(c)
maintain, until completion of the Project, within DAER, 
staff in adequate numbers and with adequate experience and 
qualifications, for the purpose of, inter alia, coordinate DAER’s 
concession activities and support the Borrower’s highway concession 
program; and
(d)
establish, by not later than ninety days after the Effective 
Date, a computerized Project management system, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for the purposes of planning, monitoring and reporting on Project 
implementation and, without limitation upon the provision of Section 9.07 
of the General Conditions, furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on the 
progress of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, maintain in DAER an environmental 
unit, with  adequately trained professionals responsible for coordinating 
the implementation of the Borrower’s environmental obligations set forth 
in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, the total number of 
DAER road staff within limits consistent with the yearly targets set 
forth in the Project Monitoring Letter; and
(b)
by not later than September 30, 1998 furnish to the Bank for 
comments, a plan to restructure DAER’s operations, including staffing and 
training programs, and a timetable for the implementation of such plan, 
and, thereafter implement such plan after taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, through DAER, prior to inviting 
bids for road works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, but 
in any event not later than September 30, 1998:
Page  5
(a)
put into effect environmental guidelines (the Environmental 
Guidelines), satisfactory to the Bank, for the roads under the Borrower's 
jurisdiction;
(b)
incorporate the Environmental Guidelines in all contracts 
for road engineering and works to be entered into by the Borrower or its 
agencies; and, thereafter,
(c)
take all measures necessary or advisable to ensure the 
effective implementation and enforcement of the Environmental Guidelines, 
including, inter alia, the preparation of environmental impact 
assessments for the Borrower's major road projects.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through DAER, by not later than 
December 31, 1998, contract the consultants required to assist in the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, through DAER:
(a)
gradually increase the carrying out of routine road 
maintenance activities through private contractors, in accordance with 
the targets set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter; and
(b)
by not later than December 31, 1998 furnish to the Bank a 
plan to contract out the maintenance of the Borrower’s road network, 
including a timetable for its implementation, and thereafter implement 
such plan after taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, through DAER:
(a)
by not later than April 30 of each year of Project 
implementation: (i) carry out surface and structural condition, traffic 
and accident surveys of its road network, in accordance with the 
procedures and guidelines set forth in the Operational Manual; and (ii) 
organize the results of such surveys in a computerized road data base;
(b)
by not later than August 15 of each year of Project 
implementation furnish to the Bank for comments an annual road program 
(the State Road Program) for the subsequent year, such program to be 
prepared on the basis of the results of the surveys referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, and in accordance with the criteria and 
methodologies set forth in the Operational Manual, and in accordance with 
the annual physical and funding targets set forth in the Project 
Monitoring Letter; and
(c)
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement, take into account, when preparing its budgetary 
proposal for the subsequent year, the relevant State Road Program and the 
Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, through DAER, select segments of its road network to 
benefit from such Part of the Project (including the Subprojects) on the 
basis of:
(a)
the results of the surveys referred to in Section 3.09 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement; and
(b)
appropriate technical and economic criteria and 
methodologies, as specified in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.11. Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs of 
each Subproject, the Borrower, through DAER, shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank, for its review and approval, a draft financing application (of 
such form as the Bank shall reasonably request) providing the following 
information, in the manner specified in the Operational Manual: 
Page  6
(a)
the rationale for selection; 
(b)
the road surface and soil conditions, and traffic 
projections; 
(c)
the diagnostic of the problems and the recommended 
engineering solution; 
(d)
the estimated cost of works; 
(e)
a preliminary economic evaluation; 
(f)
the proposed implementation schedule; and
(g)
such other matters as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
provided, however, that all recommended engineering solutions shall be 
consistent with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
Section 3.12. When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for its 
review and approval, the Borrower, through DAER, shall furnish to the 
Bank, an application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall:
(a)
update the information provided to the Bank pursuant to 
Section 3.11 of this Agreement, on the basis of the Bank's comments 
thereon and the final engineering designs;
(b)
include a summary of the environmental protection measures 
required pursuant to the Environmental Guidelines and the applicable 
provisions of the Operational Manual; and
(c)
contain such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request in respect of such Subproject.
Section 3.13. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
in the month of December 2000 or whenever an amount 
equivalent to fifty percent of the Loan is disbursed, whichever is 
earlier, review with the Bank (the mid-term review) the overall progress 
in the execution of the Project; and
(b)
take any remedial action which shall have been agreed upon 
by the Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph 
(a) above, as necessary to be taken for the efficient execution of the 
Project or the attainment of its objectives, such action to be taken in 
the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply 
with its obligations under the DAER Contractual Arrangements in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce such contractual arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.15. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Page  7
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank.
Section 5.02. The date August 24, 1998, is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, 
the Secretary of Coordination and Planning of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da Coordenação e Planejamento
Avenida Borges de Medeiros 1501 - 5o. andar
90.119-900 Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul  
Brazil
Telex:
519702
With copy to:
Departamento Autônomo de Estradas de Rodagens -DAER
Avenida Borges de Medeiros 1555 - 9o. andar
90.119-150 Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul  
Brazil
Telex:
511185
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  9
By /s/ Gobind T, Nankani
Authorized Representative
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
By /s/ Antonio Britto
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
 54,000,000
50%
(2)
Goods
  1,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expnditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' services
   3,000,000
100%
and training expenses
under Part A of this
Project
(4)
Consultants' services
   4,000,000
50%
under Part B of the
Project
(5)
Unallocated
   8,000,000
TOTAL
  70,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Guarantor.
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the amount of $7,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1997 or a date twelve 
months before the date of this Agreement, whichever is later; and
(b)
expenditures under a Subproject, unless the Bank has 
approved such Subproject.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under 
contracts for: (i) goods costing less than $350,000 equivalent; (ii) 
works costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent (other than the first two 
contracts for works to be awarded); (iii) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower’s road 
network, by: (a) making a more efficient resource allocation and 
utilization in the road sector; (b) increasing private sector 
participation in the management of such network; (c) strengthening DAER’s 
capacity to manage its road programs; and (d) rehabilitating selected 
segments of, and maintaining the Borrower’s road network.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Policy and Institutional Development
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, software and training 
for the purposes of:
1.
Preparing and monitoring the implementation of the State Road 
Programs and strengthening of DAER’s planning, programming, budgeting and 
monitoring systems.
2.
Supervising and monitoring the implementation of the Borrower’s 
highway concession and contract maintenance programs.
3.
Restructuring of DAER’s operations, such restructuring to take into 
account the above policy changes, through the reformulating of its 
institutional structure including the preparation and implementation of a 
staffing plan, and staff training programs, as well as the carrying out 
of an inventory of DAER’s  physical assets and assets’ sales program.
4.
Preparation and implementation of the Environmental Guidelines for 
the Borrower’s road sector, and development of the Borrower's 
institutional capabilities to implement such Guidelines.
Part B:
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1.
Carrying out of Subprojects for the rehabilitation or resurfacing 
of approximately 2,500 kilometers of the Borrower’s road network, 
including related studies and supervision of such Subprojects.
2.
Carrying out of routine maintenance of the Borrower’s paved road 
network, excluding the concessioned segments.
Page  11
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest 
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in such Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in 
which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed 
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from 
time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate 
Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described 
in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed 
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall 
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until 
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, 
at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the day 
occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which 
Page  12
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that 
include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, 
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest 
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed 
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund 
single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base 
Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread 
applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole 
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ 
notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies 
the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15, the first such 
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last 
such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if 
Page  13
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to 
the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after September 15, 2012, 
the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such 
installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank 
shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization 
schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Guarantor.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
(c)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, 
but less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, and works estimated to 
cost $350,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$57,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, 
bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement 
of goods and/or works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
Page  14
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on 
price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors 
similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall 
be advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for 
joint-ventures (
consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be 
approved in advance by the Bank in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease 
by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods or works awarded under 
Part B of this Schedule; and (ii) the first two contracts for works 
awarded under Part C of this Schedule; the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  15
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other 
import taxes includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal 
of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha 
Mercante - AFRMM), established pursuant to the Guarantor’s Decree-Law No. 
1142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on December 31, 1987, or any other 
tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the 
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank 
for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable 
to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of 
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply 
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal  to 
$6,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equal to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
Page  16
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed 
$9,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All 
such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
Page  17
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
