                   PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                             CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                January 27, 2014

                                                                      Report No.: 84821

Operation Name                     AL Financial Sector Modernization DPL
Region                             EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                            Albania
Sector                             Financial Institutions (100%)
Operation ID                       P146280
Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                        MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Implementing Agency                Bank of Albania (BoA), Albanian Financial Supervisory
                                   Agency (AFSA), Ministry of Finance (MoF), Ministry of
                                   Justice (MoJ), Deposit Insurance Agency (ADIA), Ministry
                                   of Innovation and Public Administration (MoIPA)
Date PID Prepared                  January 9, 2014
Estimated Date of Appraisal        March 18, 2014
Estimated Date of Board            May 15, 2014
Approval
Corporate Review Decision          NA

     Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

     Domestic and external vulnerabilities are high and pose risks to macroeconomic stability.
     Public debt and fiscal financing needs are among the highest in the region. Heavy trade,
     financial and remittance dependence on Italy and Greece remain important potential
     sources of vulnerability. The country’s limited export base and vulnerability to shocks
     pose additional external risks. Insufficient fiscal consolidation efforts or slow progress on
     structural reforms could undermine investor confidence and increase rollover risks for
     government debt.

     Following the 2008-09 global financial crises, the banking sector has remained stable
     with adequate capital and liquidity, though key channels of vulnerability remain. High
     financial euroization, strong financial links between banks and government debt holdings,
     and the dominant presence of subsidiaries of foreign banks increase the banking sector’s
     vulnerabilities to potential shocks. Past poor credit underwriting practices by banks and
     the general economic slowdown, in combination with the rise in government arrears and
     a protracted, unreliable collateral execution regime have all contributed to a large
     increase in NPLs, now the highest in the region. The deteriorating asset quality continues
     to hang over the banking system, undermining credit growth. Risks to the banking sector
     may be exacerbated in the event of further Eurozone financial stress or deleveraging,
     which could hurt the economy through spill-over effects (through trade, investment and
     remittances channels), and thus could negatively impact financial stability.
The quality of banks’ loan portfolios have deteriorated markedly since the onset of the
crisis. At end-September 2013 gross non-performing loans (NPLs) represented 24.2
percent of total loans, among the highest in the region. Foreign currency loans have
performed worse than local currency loans, with NPL ratios of 26.2 percent and
20.7 percent, respectively, at end-September 2013. Most lending is secured by collateral
and provisioning rules are conservative. Total loan loss provisions represented 62.3
percent of NPLs at end-September 2013. As such, there is need for financial sector
authorities to continue to reduce this key source of vulnerability.

The financial sector authorities have undertaken significant measures to reduce
vulnerabilities in the financial sector, and are currently working on the implementation of
several other key reforms to further mitigate risks. Amendments to the Banking Law
adopted in 2011 provide Bank of Albania (BoA) more options for bank resolution. In a
proactive bid to strengthen its crisis management framework, the BoA enhanced its
monitoring and analytical tools for assessing financial stability and widened the list of
collateral for Emergency Liquidity Assistance. To better assess market developments and
identify emerging risks in the financial sector, in 2012 the authorities re-constituted a
high level Financial Stability Advisory Group (FSAG) composed of the MoF, BoA, FSA,
and the ADIA. Additionally, the authorities amended the Civil Procedure Code, adopted
by Parliament in early 2013 to shorten and simplify collateral enforcement procedures
and sharply limits the court’s right to intervene in the enforcement of foreclosing on real
property.

The new Government is committed to address the economic imbalances and
undertake reforms to restore sustainable economic growth. The strong election
mandate augurs well for political stability in the period ahead, as the authorities are keen
on launching upfront policy and structural reforms, including in the areas of public
finances and those required for eventual EU accession.

Proposed Objective(s)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to strengthen the financial sector regulatory
and supervisory regime and mitigate key vulnerabilities of the bank and non-bank
sectors. The DPL is structured around three pillars: (i) strengthening regulation and
supervision of the banking sector and financial safety net; (ii) expediting resolution of
non-performing loans (NPLs); and (iii) strengthening Nonbank Financial Institutions
(NBFIs).

The proposed Financial Sector Modernization DPL program supports the Government’s
program as outlined in the draft NSDI for 2014 – 2020. Objectives outlined in pillar 1 of
the draft NSDI, which emphasizes harnessing the potential of the financial sector to
support growth and competitiveness, are directly supported by the proposed operation
and include: (i) creating an enabling environment for private banks to expand credit to the
private sector and to substantially reduce non-performing loans; (ii) enhancing the
supervisory capacity of the Albanian Financial Supervisory Authority (AFSA); and (iii)
further developing the non-bank financial sector
The proposed DPL measures of strengthening and further developing the financial sector
contribute to poverty reduction and shared prosperity. Higher levels of financial sector
development result in a faster decline and lower incidence of poverty. In addition,
measures supporting financial stability reduce the impact of financial crises that take a
huge toll on economic growth and poverty alleviation.

Preliminary Description

The DPL proposes measures in three pillars: (i) strengthening regulation and supervision
of the banking sector and financial safety net; (ii) expediting the resolution of non-
performing loans (NPLs); and (iii) strengthening oversight of Nonbank Financial
Institutions (NBFIs).

Prior actions in Pillar 1 include: (i) the BoA Supervisory Council adopts new
comprehensive Risk Based Supervisory Manual and a new Supervisory Operational
Policy to increase effectiveness of banking supervision; (ii) the BoA Supervisory Council
issues new Instruction for banks to adopt Recovery Plans to demonstrate their ability to
operate during periods of stress.; and (iii) amendments to the Law on Deposit Insurance
are accepted by Cabinet of Ministers and submitted to Parliament to better align the
legislation and operations of ADIA with the Core Principles for Effective Deposit
Insurance Systems.

Prior actions in Pillar 2 include: (i) Cabinet submits to Parliament draft amendments to
tax laws to resolve NPL tax ambiguities to enable banks to write-off NPLs in protracted
litigation; (ii) the BoA Supervisory Council adopts amended regulation on “Credit Risk
Administration? for the obligatory write-off of stale-dated NPLs following a fixed period
of time classified in the “loss category?; (iii) the BoA issues three sets of guidelines for:
(i) loan restructuring for businesses; (ii) loan restructuring for individuals; and (iii) real
estate appraisal guidelines; (iv) the MoJ and MoF have issued revised or new instructions
to provide market-based incentives for private bailiffs’ compensation, which would
expedite the collateral execution process; and (v) the BoA Supervisory Council adopts a
new regulation on “Risk Administration for Banks’ Large Exposures? to strengthen credit
underwriting practices and NPL recovery and resolution for large borrowers.

Prior actions in Pillar 3 include: (i) the Cabinet of Ministers accepts and submits to
Parliament a new Insurance Law, and amendments to the AFSA Law, the Law on
Salaries of Independent Institutions and the Civil Servant Law, and (ii) the AFSA adopts
market stabilization measures to issue a regulation on minimum MTPL reserving
standards and a time-bound plan to restore funding of the Compensation Fund.

Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

The poverty and social impacts of policy measures supported under this DPL are
expected to be either positive or negligible. This operation contributes to shared
prosperity through strengthening the resilience of the financial system supportive of
future credit flows, reducing outstanding NPLs and strengthening the non-bank financial
       sector regulatory and supervisory regime. A strengthened regulatory and supervisory
       framework for the banking sector and financial safety net will mitigate risks for potential
       banking sector crises, which can be costly to depositors and can lead to an increase in
       poverty. Measures to resolve NPLs in the banking sector will encourage new bank
       lending to households, which help encourage productive investments and economic
       growth. Moreover, a well-functioning non-bank regulatory and insurance sector which
       honors its obligations on a timely basis is in the interest of every policy holder. The
       proposed DPL measures, focused on legal, regulatory, and supervisory reforms to
       strengthen and further develop the financial sector, are also not expected to have any
       significant effects on the environment, natural resources and forestry.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
Borrower                                                                               0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                100
Total                                                                                100

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Michael Edwards
Title: Lead Financial Sector Specialist
Tel: (202) 473-5370
Fax:
Email: medwards1@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Mr Shkelqim Cani
Title: Minister of Finance
Tel: +355.67.20.25.270
Email: shcani@minfin.gov.al

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
