                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00003402



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-83730)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 100 MILLION


                                       TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

                                        FOR A

                    FINANCIAL SECTOR MODERNIZATION LOAN

                                   December 16, 2015




Finance & Markets Global Practice
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective December 16, 2015)
                               Currency Unit = Albanian Lek (ALL)
                                     US$1.00 = ALL 126.30
                                      US$ 1.00 = SDR 0.72

                           ALBANIA – GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 – December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
                                          (As applicable, plus others)

AAB     Albanian Association of Bankers                  IEF             Index of Economic Freedom
ADIA    Albania Deposit Insurance Authority              IFC             International Finance Corporation
AFSA    Albanian Financial Supervisory Authority         IFIs            International Financial Institutions
BoA     Bank of Albania                                  IMF             International Monetary Fund
CAD     Current Account Deficit                          JSAN            Joint Staff Advisory Note
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                      LDP             Letter of Development Policy
CDS     Credit Default Swaps                             MDGs            Millennium Development Goals
DB      Doing Business                                   MOC             Memorandum of Cooperation
DPL     Development Policy Loan                          MoF             Ministry of Finance
DPO     Development Policy Operation                     MoJ             Ministry of Justice
EBA     European Banking Authority                       MTBP            Medium-Term Budget Plan
ECB     European Central Bank                            MTEF            Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
EFF     Extended Fund Facility                           MTPL            Motor Third Party Liability
EFSF    European Financial Stability Facility            NBFI            Non-bank financial institutions
ESM     European Stability Mechanism                     NPL             Non-Performing Loans
EU      European Union                                   NSDI            National Strategy for Development and
                                                                         Integration
FIRST   Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening        PER             Public Expenditure Review
        Initiative
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program              PHRD            Japan Policy and Human Resources
                                                                         Development Trust Fund
FSAG    Financial Stability Action Group                 PRGF            Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
FSVC    Financial Services Volunteer Corps               ROSC            Report on the Observance of Standards
                                                                         and Codes
FSML    Financial Sector Modernization Loan              SDR             Special Drawing Rights
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                           SOE             State-Owned Enterprise
GIZ     Gessellschaft fur Internationale                 TA              Technical Assistance
        Zusammenarbeit (German Society for
        International Cooperation)
GNP     Gross National Product                           UNDP            United Nations Development Program
HIPC    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries                  USAID           United States Agency for International
                                                                         Development
IADI    International Association of Deposit Insurers    VAT             Value-added tax
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and
        Development
IDA     International Development Association
Senior Global Practice Director: Gloria Grandolini
               Sector Manager: Aurora Ferrari
          Project Team Leader: Michael Edwards
             ICR Team Leader: Cevdet Cagdas Unal
                                REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
                        FINANCIAL SECTOR MODERNIZATION LOAN


Contents	
      
  1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 2 
     1.1 Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 7 
     1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
     approved) .................................................................................................................... 9 
     1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
     and Reasons/Justification .......................................................................................... 10 
     1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved) ........................ 10 
     1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)................................................................... 11 
     1.6 Other significant changes .................................................................................... 11 
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 11 
     2.1 Program Performance ......................................................................................... 11 
     2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation: .......................................................... 14 
     2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization: ... 18 
     2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation ........................................................ 18 
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 19 
     3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ....................................... 19 
     3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives ........................................... 19 
     3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ............................................................ 23 
     3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .......................................... 23 
     3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ... 25 
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 25 
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25 
     5.1 Bank Performance ............................................................................................... 25 
     5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................ 27 
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 27 
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 28 
  Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 29 
     (a) Task Team members............................................................................................ 29 
     (b) Staff Time and Cost............................................................................................. 29 
  Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30 
  Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 31 
  Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32 
  Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33 
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34 
     MAP .......................................................................................................................... 35 




                                                                 1
A. Basic Information
                                                                           AL Financial Sector
Country:                Albania                  Program Name:
                                                                           DPL
Program ID:             P146280                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-83730
ICR Date:               12/21/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           FINANCE
Original Total
                        USD 100.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 96.28M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/16/2014      Effectiveness:
Appraisal:            03/19/2014      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/15/2014      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2015        06/30/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                          Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                 2
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                            None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                          Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                             80                  80
General finance sector                                              20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Legal institutions for a market economy                             30                  30
Other Financial Sector Development                                  70                  70

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                         Jan Walliser
Country Director:          Ellen A. Goldstein                 Ellen A. Goldstein
Practice
                           Aurora Ferrari                     Aurora Ferrari
Manager/Manager:
Program Team Leader:       Michael Edwards                    Michael Edwards
ICR Team Leader:           Cevdet Cagdas Unal
ICR Primary Author:        Cevdet Cagdas Unal


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO is to strengthen the financial sector regulatory and supervisory regime and
mitigate key vulnerabilities of the bank and non-bank financial sectors.

  The DPL was structured around three pillars: (i) strengthening regulation and
supervision of the banking sector and financial safety net; (ii) expediting resolution of


                                                3
non-performing loans (NPLs); and (iii) strengthening regulation and supervision of
Nonbank Financial Institutions (NBFIs).

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values         Target Years
                   By end-March 2015, inspections of five of 16 banks are conducted in
Indicator 1 :      accordance with the new Risk Based Supervisory Manual and the new
                   Supervisory Operational Policy, including at least two systemic banks.
                   0 banks. Currently the
Value              Supervisory Manual        5 out 16 banks,                   6 out of 16 banks,
(quantitative or   and Operational Policy including 2                          including 2
Qualitative)       are mostly compliance- systemic banks                       systemic banks
                   based.
Date achieved      03/31/2014                03/31/2015                        03/31/2015
Comments           As of end March 2015, six banks (5 full scope examinations – 1 partial
(incl. %           examination), out of which four large systemic banks were inspected using the
achievement)       new risk based supervision manual.
                   By end-March 2015, all banks determined as systemically important submit
Indicator 2 :      enhanced Recovery Plans to BoA, in line with the new BoA Instruction that
                   formalizes the content to be included in banks’ Recovery Plans.
                                             All banks
                                                                               All banks
                                             determined as
                                                                               determined as
                                             systemically
                                                                               systemically
                                             important submit
                                                                               important submit
                   Systemic banks have enhanced
                                                                               enhanced Recovery
Value              submitted                 Recovery Plans to
                                                                               Plans to BoA, in
(quantitative or   initial recovery plans to BoA, in line with
                                                                               line with the new
Qualitative)       BoA with no               the new BoA
                                                                               BoA Instruction
                   formalized content        Instruction that
                                                                               that formalizes the
                                             formalizes the
                                                                               content to be
                                             content to be
                                                                               included in banks’
                                             included in banks’
                                                                               Recovery Plans.
                                             Recovery Plans.
Date achieved      03/31/2014                03/31/2015                        03/31/2015
                   “According to the BoA Supervisory Council decision (Nr.11) on the 26th of
Comments
                   February 2014, banks operating in Albania that are determined as systemically
(incl. %
                   important shall submit to BoA their recovery plans (RPs) no later than the end
achievement)
                   of the first quarter.
                   By end-March 2015, ADIA completes assessment of compliance of eligible
Indicator 3 :
                   SCAs with the legal and technical requirements of ADIA in order to ensure


                                                4
                   that eligible SCAs enter the deposit insurance scheme by end-2015.
                                            ADIA completes
                                            assessment of
                                            compliance of
                                            eligible SCAs with                The assessment of
                                            the legal and                     compliance of
Value              SCAs are not included technical                            SCAs eligible to
(quantitative or   in the deposit insurance requirements of                   enter the deposit
Qualitative)       scheme                   ADIA in order to                  insurance scheme
                                            ensure that eligible              was completed in
                                            SCAs enter the                    September 2014.
                                            deposit insurance
                                            scheme by end-
                                            2015.
Date achieved      03/31/2014               03/31/2015                        09/30/2014
Comments
                           The assessment of compliance of SCAs eligible to enter the deposit
(incl. %
                   insurance scheme was completed in September 2014.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      By end-March 2015, ADIA approves its own budget without BoA ratification.
                                                                        ADIA’s board
Value                                                                   approved in
                   ADIA budget is ratified ADIA budget is
(quantitative or                                                        January 2015 the
                   by BoA                  ratified by BoA
Qualitative)                                                            new budget without
                                                                        BoA’s ratification.
Date achieved      03/31/2014              03/31/2015                   01/31/2015
Comments
                   The new ADIA law empowered ADIA’s board to approve the new budget
(incl. %
                   without BoA’s ratification.
achievement)
                   By end-March 2015, the ratio of NPLs/total loans declines to 20 percent or
Indicator 5 :
                   less, with the write-off of at least lek 20 billion of NPLs.
                                             NPL ratio 20% or
Value
                                             less,                              20.6%
(quantitative or   23.5%
                                             At least LEK 20
Qualitative)
                                             billion written off
Date achieved      12/31/2013                03/31/2015                         09/30/2015
                   After peaking at 24.9% in Sep 2014 the NPL ratio came down to 20.6 % as of
Comments
                   end September 2015. In total, Lek 20.3billion of NPLs were written off till the
(incl. %
                   end of September 2015, six months after the targeted date due to the delay in
achievement)
                   the enforcement.
                   By end- March 2015, AFSA’s Board adopts its own organizational structure
Indicator 6 :      and market-based salary scale independently from Parliament, allowing it to
                   regulate and supervise NBFIs more effectively.
                                             AFSA
                   AFSA organizational
                                             organizational
                   structure is currently                                       AFSA approved its
Value                                        structure is
                   approved by Parliament                                       own structure,
(quantitative or                             currently approved
                   and salaries are set in                                      including a new
Qualitative)                                 by Parliament and
                   accordance with civil                                        own salary scale
                                             salaries are set in
                   servants’ salary scale
                                             accordance with


                                                 5
                                            civil servants’
                                            salary scale
Date achieved      03/31/2014               03/31/2015                       03/31/2015
                   AFSA new board, based on the powers granted through amendments to the La
Comments
                   on AFSA, Law on Salaries of Independent Institutions, and Law on Civil
(incl. %
                   Service, has full power to approve AFSA’s organizational structure and
achievement)
                   salaries scale.
                   By end March-2015, funding of the MTPL Compensation Fund is replenished
Indicator 7 :      in the amount of Lek 430 Million to enable payment of pending insurance
                   claims.
                                            Funding of the
                                            MTPL
                                            Compensation
                   Compensation Fund is Fund is
Value
                   depleted with no funds replenished in the                 LEK 451.5 million
(quantitative or
                   to pay pending           amount of Lek 430                claims paid-off
Qualitative)
                   insurance claims         Million to enable
                                            payment of
                                            pending insurance
                                            claims.
Date achieved      03/31/2014               03/31/2015                       03/31/2015
Comments
                   The MTPL Compensation Fund is replenished as expected. The achievement
(incl. %
                   ratio was 105%.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                         Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                        IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               6
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Albania’s sustained high economic growth in the decade prior to the 2008 global
financial crisis helped it achieve a middle income status, reduce poverty and increase
shared prosperity. During 1998-2008, annual growth averaged 6 percent in real terms.
Although this period of strong growth was not matched by the same level of employment
creation, it was successful in terms of poverty reduction. Absolute poverty halved from
25 percent in 2002 to about 18 percent by 2008.

Albania was hit hard by the global crisis, but was able to avoid a recession. The crisis led
to lower remittances and other flows, which in turn contributed to lower growth. Gross
domestic product (GDP) grew by an average of below 3 percent between 2009 and 2012.
The economy has been slowing significantly since 2012, as rising government payment
arrears - on the back of tax refunds, continued multi-year investment projects and public
works - and subdued credit growth contributed to weaknesses in domestic demand. The
public debt surged from 55 percent of GDP in 2008 to 71 percent in 2013, posing interest
rate and rollover risks. In 2013, growth slowed to 1.4 percent, and is expected to average
2 percent between 2014 and 2016.

Following the 2008 global financial crisis, the banking sector remained stable (with
adequate capital and liquidity), but key vulnerabilities were unresolved as the Greek
crisis entered a new phase. High financial euroization, strong financial links between
banks and government debt holdings, and the dominant presence of subsidiaries of
foreign banks (mostly from Eurozone) increased the banking sector’s vulnerabilities to
potential shocks. Non-performing loans (NPL) ratios were amongst the highest in the
region, leading to a sharp slowdown in credit growth as banks took a conservative
approach to lending.

The sharp decline in bank profitability and the rise of NPL rates presented key risks to the
banking sector, undermining credit growth. Return on equity fell to below 6.4 percent in
2013, from over 20 percent in 2007. NPLs increased to 23.5 percent at end-2013, from 3
percent at end-2007. The sharp rise of NPLs was due to a combination of factors,
including past poor credit underwriting practices by banks, the general economic
slowdown, the rise in government arrears (as a result of poor tax revenue performance
and continued infrastructure spending), and an unreliable collateral execution regime.
Credit growth turned negative at end-November 2013, declining by 2.4 percent (year-on-
year).

The strong financial links between banks and the government further increased macro-
financial vulnerabilities. A large share of bank assets was invested in government
securities, representing more than 60 percent of government debt. This significant
interdependence presented systemic risks to banks (that were vulnerable both to the lack
of liquidity and to changes in the value of longer term debt securities) and to the
government (that depended on the regular roll over of debt by banks to finance its deficit).



                                             7
The risk was further heightened by the lack of a well-functioning secondary market, and
the emergence of investment funds that faced significant liquidity risks and challenges
regarding asset valuation.

The nonbank financial sector was small - but new risks emerged in 2013 as investment
funds begun growing considerably since late 2012 under an inadequate regulatory and
supervisory framework. While these funds had helped diversify the ownership of
government securities, their emergence had not been matched with an adequate
regulatory and supervisory regime. The insurance market also faced significant
challenges, as insurance companies were not financing outstanding liabilities in full. Due
to the need for a major institutional reform to achieve financial and operational
independence of the nonbank regulator, the regulation and supervision of the sector had
lagged behind considerably.

The deposit insurance framework, managed by the Albanian Deposit Insurance Agency
(ADIA), broadly conformed to international best practice. ADIA ensured approximately
58 percent of deposits in the banking system. ADIA had made impressive progress in
improving its operations and in building its organizational structure. The ADIA law was
amended in 2012 to address a key set of reforms to extend coverage to Savings and
Credit Associations (SCAs), facilitate a prompt pay-out after Bank of Albania (BoA)
intervention, and expand ADIA powers to contribute to a purchase and assumption or
bridge bank resolution.

Overall, during the preparation of this Development Policy Operation (DPO), the
domestic and external vulnerabilities in Albania were high and posed serious threats to
macroeconomic and financial sector stability.	 Public debt and fiscal financing needs were
among the highest in the region. Heavy trade, financial, and remittance dependence on
Italy and Greece remained important potential sources of vulnerability.

In response to the challenges mentioned above, the	 new	 Government	 of	 Albania	 had	
committed	at	 a	 high	 level	 to	 correct	 fiscal	 imbalances	 through	 fiscal	 consolidation,	
and	 to	 undertake	 key	 reforms	 to	 restore	 macroeconomic	 and	 financial	 sector	
stability.	 In	 particular,	 the financial sector authorities undertook significant measures to
minimize vulnerabilities in the financial sector, including, but not limited, to NPL
management and resolution; the introduction of a resolution regime for SCAs; the
enhancement of the deposit insurance framework; and the development of the insurance
market. Meanwhile,	 since the early 2000s, Albania had implemented a range of
institutional and structural reforms that had moved it closer to EU membership. The
European Commission awarded the country with candidate status in June 2014.

Yet, the Government’s ambition and drive to reform are tempered by limited prior public
sector experience and the country’s historically weak administrative capacity to
implement change. Nonetheless, with adequate support from the international community,
Albania now has a historic opportunity to break with the past and accelerate its path
toward prosperity and integration into the EU. This opportunity has been met with an
increased level of The World Bank Group (WBG) support to implement deep and long-


                                              8
overdue structural reforms. In particular, the WBG stepped up its engagement in Albania
to support the ambitious reform agenda of the new Government on tackling fiscal and
financial sector challenges. The WBG intensified its activities on both lending and
knowledge sharing. On the lending side, the First Public Finance Development Policy
Loan (DPL) was delivered on May 2014, along with this operation. On the knowledge
sharing side, the late-2013 FSAP was particularly important, including for this operation,
as it provided the fundamental analytical grounds within a broad framework.

Last but not the least, the IMF’s Extended Fund Facility (EFF) three year program
(approved in Feb 2014) in the amount of EUR330.1 million (around US$457.1 million)
has been helping Albania to meet its external financing needs, while providing the
necessary support to strengthen fiscal and debt sustainability, lower public financing risks,
and put the economy on a sustained growth path.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO is to strengthen the financial sector regulatory and supervisory regime and
mitigate key vulnerabilities of the bank and non-bank financial sectors.
The DPL was structured around three pillars: (i) strengthening regulation and supervision
of the banking sector and financial safety net; (ii) expediting resolution of non-
performing loans (NPLs); and (iii) strengthening regulation and supervision of Nonbank
Financial Institutions (NBFIs).

The following outcome indicators were used to measure results achieved in this DPL:
Pillar I – Strengthening regulation and supervision of the banking sector and financial
safety net
1. By end-March 2015, inspections of five of 16 banks are conducted in accordance with
   the new Risk Based Supervisory Manual and the new Supervisory Operational Policy,
   including at least two systemic banks.
2. By end-March 2015, all banks determined as systemically important submit enhanced
   Recovery Plans to BoA, in line with the new BoA Instruction that formalizes content
   that must be included in banks’ Recovery Plans.
3. By end-March 2015, ADIA completes assessment of compliance of eligible SCAs
   with the legal and technical requirements of ADIA in order to ensure that eligible
   SCAs enter the deposit insurance scheme by end-2015.
4. By end-March 2015, ADIA approves its own budget without BoA ratification.
Pillar II – Expediting resolution of NPLs
5. By end-March 2015, the ratio of NPLs/total loans declines to 20 percent or less, with
   the write-off of at least 20 billion of NPLs.
Pillar III – Strengthening regulation and supervision of NBFIs
6. By end- March 2015, AFSA’s Board adopts its own organizational structure and
   market-based salary scale independently from Parliament, allowing it to regulate and


                                             9
   supervise NBFIs more effectively
7. By end March-2015, funding of the MTPL Compensation Fund is replenished in the
   amount of Lek 430 Million to enable payment of pending insurance claims.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

None

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The Financial Sector Modernization DPL supported a set of ten prior actions to help
Albania implement key financial sector reforms:

Prior Action #1: BoA Supervisory Council adopts a new comprehensive Risk Based
Supervisory Manual and a new Supervisory Operational Policy to increase effectiveness
of banking supervision. The adoption of a risk-based supervisory framework will result in
more efficient utilization of supervisory resources, and hence will increase the quality of
banking supervision and contribute to the stability of the financial system.

Prior Action #2: BoA Supervisory Council issues new Instruction for designated systemic
banks to adopt Recovery Plans to demonstrate their ability to operate during periods of
stress. The formal adoption of a new mandatory Instruction for the preparation of bank
specific recovery plans would increase the resiliency of the banking system and allow
BoA to better utilize its supervisory resources and resolution powers.

Prior Action # 3: Amendments to the Law on Deposit Insurance are accepted by Cabinet
of Ministers and submitted to Parliament, to better align the legislation and operations of
ADIA with the Core Principles for Effective Deposit Insurance Systems. To fulfill
international best practice, ADIA should be provided greater autonomy in its operations.

Prior Action # 4: Cabinet of Ministers submits draft amendments of tax law No. 8438 to
Parliament to resolve key NPL tax ambiguities to enable banks to write-off NPLs in
protracted litigation. The five prior actions (Nos. 4 – 8) are to cumulatively contribute to
the reduction of the NPL stock. The expected result is that by end-March 2015, the ratio
of NPLs/total loans declines to 20% or less.

Prior Action # 5: BoA Supervisory Council adopts amended regulation on “Credit Risk
Administration” for the obligatory write-off of stale-dated NPLs following a fixed period
of time classified in the “loss category.” To facilitate the write-off of stale-dated NPLs,
the BoA will introduce changes to the regulation “On Credit Risk Administration” to
define a maximum period of holding loss loans in the balance sheet on the bank.

Prior Action # 6: BOA issues three sets of guidelines on: (i) loan restructuring for
businesses; (ii) loan restructuring for individuals; and (iii) real estate appraisal, based on
international good practice. The goal is to allow cooperative borrowers facing financial


                                             10
  difficulties the opportunity to fulfill their contractual obligations so their businesses can
  continue and minimize the execution of collateral.

  Prior Action #7: BoA Supervisory Council adopts a new regulation on “Risk
  Administration for Banks’ Large Exposures” to strengthen credit underwriting practices
  and NPL recovery and resolution for large borrowers. It is expected that banks will
  significantly improve their underwriting standards.

  Prior Action #8: MoJ and MoF to issue new instructions to provide market based
  incentives for private bailiffs’ compensation. This will result in increased competition
  and improved incentives to promptly execute on collateral, a necessary prerequisite to the
  reduction of NPLs.

  Prior Action #9: To ensure the financial and operational independence of the AFSA, the
  Cabinet of Ministers accepts and submits to Parliament: a new Insurance bill, and
  amendments to AFSA Law, Law on Salaries of Independent Institutions, and the Civil
  Servant Law. The AFSA Law is to be amended, inter alia, to: (i) abolish the requirements
  for the AFSA to have its organizational structure approved by the Parliament, and (ii)
  remove the AFSA from the civil servants’ compensation and benefits structure, so it has
  the ability to attract and retain sufficient experienced technical staff.

  Prior Action #10: The AFSA adopts market stabilization measures to issue: (i) a
  regulation on minimum MTPL reserving standards; and (ii) a time-bound plan to
  replenish funding of the Compensation Fund. AFSA has agreed to undertake immediate
  MTPL market stabilization measures by establishing through regulation minimum
  reserving standards to ensure a level playing field, adequate claims paying capacity and
  the overall solvency of the market.

  1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

  None

  1.6 Other significant changes

  None

  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


  2.1 Program Performance

  All the planned policy actions were implemented by authorities.

                                  Prior Actions of FSM DPL
                                                                              Status
Pillar I. Strengthening regulation and supervision of the banking sector and financial safety net


                                               11
BoA Supervisory Council adopted a new comprehensive Risk           Completed
Based Supervisory Manual and a new Supervisory Operational
Policy to increase effectiveness of banking supervision.

The Supervisory Operational Policy has been approved by the
Supervisory Council of BoA, with Decision No. 9, Date 26 Feb
2014.

In conjunction with the Supervisory Operational Policy, the
Risk Assesment Manual document has also been approved by
the First Deputy Governor of the BoA,with the Order No.590,
Date 27 Feb 2014, and enters in force by 1st January 2015.

BoA Supervisory Council issued a new Instruction for banks to      Completed
adopt Recovery Plans to demonstrate their ability to operate
during periods of stress.

BoA Supervisory Council issued a mandatory Guideline on
Recovery Plans, on 26 Feb 2014.
Amendments to the Law on Deposit Insurance were accepted           Completed
by Cabinet of Ministers and submitted to Parliament, to better
align the legislation and operations of ADIA with the Core
Principles for Effective Deposit Insurance Systems.
This new law ensured ability of ADIA to approve its own
budget. But, the Parliament changed the original draft in one of
the issues as to increase the proposed coverage for Savings and
Credit Associations from the WB proposed ALL 1 million to
ALL 2 million, close to the banks coverage of ALL 2.5 million.

The new Deposit Insurance draft amendments were approved
by the Council of Ministers in the meeting of 26 Mar 2014.

The Parliament approved the new Deposit Insurance law
amendments on 22 May 2014
                      Pillar II. Expediting the resolution of NPLs
Cabinet of Ministers submitted draft amendments of tax law         Completed
No. 8438 to Parliament to resolve key NPL tax ambiguities to
enable banks to write-off NPLs in protracted litigation. This is
expected to facilitate the write-off of NPLs.

Approved in the Council of Ministers meeting of 05 Feb 2014.
Approved amendments to the Tax Law in the Parliament on 03
Apr 2014.

BoA Supervisory Council amended regulation on “Credit Risk         Completed


                                               12
Administration” for the obligatory write-off of stale-dated
NPLs following a fixed period of time classified in the “loss
category.”

BoA Supervisory Council approved with decision No. 22, dated
27 Feb 2014 an amendment to the regulation No. 62 of BoA on
“Credit Risk Administration” that provides for obligatory
requirements for banks related with the write-off process
(entered in force in January 2015).
To support credit restructuring and repayment BOA issued              Completed
three sets of guidelines on: (i) loan restructuring for businesses;
(ii) loan restructuring for individuals; and (iii) real estate
appraisal, based on international good practice.

Approved by BoA Supervisory Council in October 2013
BoA Supervisory Council adopted a new regulation on “Risk             Completed
Administration for Banks’ Large Exposures” to strengthen
credit underwriting practices and NPL recovery and resolution
for large borrowers.

BoA Supervisory Council approved by decision No. 10, dated
26 Feb 2014 the new regulation “On the risk management from
large exposures of banks”
MoJ and MoF issued a new joint Instruction to provide market          Completed
based incentives for private bailiffs’ compensation.

Joint instruction of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of
Finance No.1665/1 dated 5 March 2014 “On determining
bailiff tariffs for services provided by the private judicial bailiff
service” was issued.
                  Pillar III. Strengthening regulation and supervision of NBFIs
To ensure the financial and operational independence of the           Completed
AFSA, the Cabinet of Ministers accepted and submitted to
Parliament: a new Insurance bill, and amendments to AFSA
Law, Law on Salaries of Independent Institutions, and the Civil
Servant Law.

Council of Ministers approved in the meeting of 19 March
2014:

i) draft law “On some amendments to the Law No. 9572, dated
03.07.2007 “On the Financial Supervisory Authority”;
ii) draft law “On an addition to the Law No. 152/2013 “On the
Civil Service””

iii) draft law “On some changes to the Law No. 9584, dated


                                                 13
17.07.2006 “On salaries, rewards and structure of
constitutional independent institutions and of other independent
institutions, created by law”

Council of Ministers approved in the meeting of 19 March 2014
the new Insurance draft Law

The Parliament of Albania approved:

(i) On 29 May 2014 the draft law “On some amendments to the
Law No. 9572, dated 03.07.2007 “On the Financial
Supervisory Authority”;
(ii) On 22 May 2014 the new Insurance Law;
(iii) On 12 Jun 2014 the draft law “On some changes to the
Law No. 9584, dated 17.07.2006 “On salaries, rewards and
structure of constitutional independent institutions and of other
independent institutions, created by law”
(iv) On 18 Dec 2014, draft law “On an addition to the Law No.
152/2013 “On the Civil Servant””

The AFSA adopted insurance market stabilization measures to         Completed
issue: (i) a regulation on minimum MTPL reserving standards;
and (ii) a time-bound plan to replenish funding of the
Compensation Fund.

i) Decision no. 17 of AFSA Board , dated 28 Feb 2014 “On
compensation fund for the year 2014”

ii) Decision no. 18 of AFSA Board, dated 28 Feb 2014 On the
adoption of regulation "Setting the rules for payment from the
cash reserve damages covered by insurance contracts in
compulsory motor insurance in the transport sector"



  2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

  Adequacy of government's commitment, stakeholder involvement, and/or
  participatory processes: The design of the Government’s reform program and this
  operation benefited from extensive consultations with relevant stakeholders. The
  authorities have pro-actively communicated with the stakeholders and public on the
  objectives of the DPL supported financial sector reform program. The MoF, BoA and
  AFSA representatives made appearances on media, issued public information (published
  on respective web-pages), and organized roundtables to explain the measures taken by
  the authorities to boost market confidence and restore healthy financial intermediation.




                                               14
The changes in legislation were thoroughly discussed with industry stakeholders, and
went through an extensive inter-ministerial harmonization process before their
submission to the Parliament. The Bank team also consulted widely with stakeholders,
including banking sector representatives, Savings and Credit Associations and their
Unions, investment funds, insurance companies, bailiffs, academics, and representatives
of other key development partners, including the IMF, the EC Delegation, and USAID.

Nevertheless, the MoF and MoJ joint instruction on private bailiff’s fees, issued in accord
with the DPL policy matrix, was subsequently challenged in court by the Bailiff’s
Chamber. The court ruled in favor of the Bailiff’s Chamber and suspended
implementation of the new joint instruction. The Government thereafter appealed the
court decision, and is currently awaiting a decision by the High Court. In the interim,
market participants have signaled the return to prior practices.

Soundness of the background analysis supporting the operation(s), lessons learned
incorporated, and the rationale for the Bank’s intervention: This lending operation
followed the late 2013 FSAP. Hence, the project team had unprecedented background
analysis on the banking and non-banking sectors alike for the project’s preparation. The
detailed financial sector featured in Annex 4 of the Project Document demonstrated the
depth of understanding of the challenges the financial sector faced as well.

The operation incorporated lessons from the World Bank’s experiences with the
Eurozone crisis, as well as with previous economic and financial crises. A relatively
recent comprehensive review of the World Bank’s responses to financial crises 1
underscored the following lessons that the operation fulfilled:

       Need for focus. In responding to an uneven and uncertain external environment, it
        is crucial that the operation focuses on selected key areas for good outcomes. The
        operation incorporated this lesson by focusing on a main challenge recognized by
        the Government and the BoA, namely, addressing key regulatory and supervisory
        gaps for the bank and non-bank sectors, reducing the stock and flow of NPLs, and
        strengthening the deposit insurance regime so that the entire financial sector can
        become more resilient in coping with future shocks, and that the authorities are
        better prepared for a potential spillover event.

       Government ownership. The proposed reforms aimed to support the authorities’
        priorities and required an extensive dialogue to ensure ownership of the
        technically complex and politically sensitive reforms in the financial sector. This
        operation was prepared in direct collaboration with the top leadership of the MoF,
        MoJ, BoA, AFSA, ADIA and other key stakeholders.




1
 “Lessons from Past Financial Crisis” Independent Evaluation Group, the World Bank,
2009.



                                            15
      Timing matters. The current government was elected in mid-2013 and the next
       elections will only take place in 2017. This period gives the government enough
       time and ability to tackle key financial sector reforms, especially on adopting
       measures to mitigate the level of NPLs and enhance the independence and
       capacity of the AFSA.

      Communication strategy. The operation promoted the understanding of and the
       appropriate popular support for the financial sector related reforms through a
       carefully planned and implemented communication strategy by the Government
       and the World Bank. Staff at the World Bank Tirana office ensured consistent and
       timely communication with key stakeholders. The Bank also kept the civil society
       and the general public informed of its position on critical issues through
       interviews with national media and press releases.

      Coordination among development partners. Coordination is critical to achieve
       better results. This operation incorporated this lesson by working closely with the
       IMF, EC, and USAID. For instance, the World Bank team coordinated closely
       with the IMF on financial sector reforms, building on the Bank-Fund
       collaboration during the recent 2013 FSAP and, subsequently, on the delivery of
       TA with regard to investment funds.

The negative impact of the crisis on Albanian’s (and the regional) economy provided a
strong rationale for the operation, designed to provide a coherent policy response to
systemic risks in the banking and non-banking sector. It also laid the foundation for
healthier future growth by advancing the regulatory reform agenda in the financial sector.

Assessment of the operation’s design: The operation was designed to support the
Government’s efforts to address key challenges across the financial sector. Its policy
measures accommodated the most pressing needs identified by the FSAP in 2013, and
included fundamental changes that form the basis for further reforms (e.g. the AFSA
reforms). The addition of the long-awaited reforms in the SCA sector was also positive,
but it posed risks to the efficiency of resource allocation, stretching the operational
capacity of the BoA and ADIA.

The number of prior actions requiring legislative changes was large in order to achieve
the maximum benefit from the highly conducive reform environment. The main
stakeholders were the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the BoA, the Financial
Supervisory Authority, and the Albanian Deposit Insurance Agency. Except for the MoJ,
all these institutions participate in the macro-prudential body, the Financial Stability
Advisory Group, and have a strong stake on the policy measures that were advanced by
the operation to mitigate risks and maintain financial stability.

Relevance of the risks identified at appraisal and effectiveness of mitigation
measures:

The overall risk assessment for this operation was rated as substantial. The operation was
potentially subject to substantial risks arising from domestic and/or external sources.


                                           16
A weak domestic economy, with further deterioration in the domestic fiscal outlook,
would adversely impact the banking sector. NPLs could increase further as a result of a
persistent weak economy (or potentially due to prolonged unpaid Government arrears,
and continued problems in the energy sector), requiring additional provisioning and
adversely affecting bank profitability. Rising NPLs undermine banks’ capitalization and
their willingness to lend. This risk was partly mitigated by banks’ high solvency ratios
and stringent provisioning rules.

The reform program for the growing nonbank sector could also be undermined by the
limited capacity of the nonbank regulator. The AFSA was deeply affected by its inability
to attract and retain qualified professional staff or take independent regulatory decisions.
Given the recent growth experienced in the non-bank sector, it was essential that the
AFSA be provided sufficient resources -- legal, human and financial -- to better fulfill its
mandate. This operation aimed to address this longstanding deficiency through reforming
and modernizing the legal basis of the AFSA. Additionally, in parallel to the DPL
preparation, TA was arranged to support the AFSA regarding insurance, private pensions,
and investment funds.

More broadly, an exit from unconventional monetary policy in the United States could
trigger a pullback in global risk appetite, which could reduce foreign funding sources,
thereby increasing the rollover risk for the outstanding Eurobond. Given the large
external current account deficit, funding pressures could lead to a depreciation of the Lek,
threatening the solvency of banks due to the presence of a large proportion of un-hedged
borrowers. This risk has been partially mitigated by the FIRST Initiative TA in support of
public debt management and the BoA’s strengthening of its systemic liquidity and market
operation mechanisms, as recommended by the 2013 FSAP.

The potential re-emergence of financial stress in the Eurozone (especially from Greece)
could increase deleveraging pressures, and/or result in the exit of a foreign bank from the
market. De-leveraging pressures could lead to subsidiaries of affected banks to cut bank
lending, or exit, potentially undermining public confidence. Although Albania has been
relatively successful in protecting itself from the European financial crisis to date, a loss
of depositor confidence or a large withdrawal of parent funding could lead to a systemic
crisis. If liquidity pressures emerged, the capacity of the BoA to act as a lender of last
resort in foreign currency was limited.

This set of largely exogenous risks was mitigated by the authorities through, inter alia,
enhancing the operational framework for monetary policy, developing a collateralized
money market for transactions with the central bank, establishing an external back-stop
facility for the deposit insurer and, more broadly, through enhancing the market for
government securities. As the Greek economic and debt crisis is again accentuating
external risks and continued spill-over risks, a new operation is under preparation to
support further measures to ensure stability and resilience in the financial sector.

Importantly, the viability of the Financial Sector Modernization DPL program could have
been undermined if there was insufficient political consensus to pass in Parliament the
five underlying legislation pieces featured in the prior actions, or more broadly, if


                                             17
implementation of the financial sector related reforms, which depended upon the
continued collaboration and alignment amongst the key policy makers (MoF, MoJ, BoA,
AFSA, ADIA) were to stall.

These risks were partially mitigated by broad and inclusive consultations with the
relevant Ministries and regulators. Moreover, an ad hoc inter-Ministerial Committee was
formed to coordinate the implementation of prior actions. There was broad support for
strengthening the banking sector, reducing NPLs, and improving the regulation and
supervision of the insurance sector and investment funds. The implementation of the
reform program supported under this operation was closely monitored through ongoing
policy dialogue and planned financial sector focused technical assistance building on key
FSAP findings and recommendations.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

Monitoring and evaluation was supported by the BoA, MoF, the MoJ, the ADIA and
AFSA, as well as the Prime Minister’s office through legislative and economic data
provided by the authorities and verified in official disclosures, directives and regulations.
Baseline and updated data were provided by the respective agencies and tracked
according to the indicators and outcome measures as shown in the monitoring and results
framework of the policy matrix.

Design: There were seven indicators to monitor the outcomes, for which targets were
established for each indicator to capture the results achieved. The baselines and outcome
indicators were objectively formed, demonstrating both the regulator’s and financial
sector’s performance. Having said that, DPL Pillar II was composed of five prior actions
and one results indicator - the reduction of NPLs. The headline NPL figure represents a
reliable proxy to improve the authorizing environment necessary to support the reduction
of NPLs. Yet, the reduction of NPLs is per se outside the direct control of the authorities
and could be undermined by other factors, including an economic slowdown and weak
credit growth. It is thus welcomed that the team added an indicator on the write-off
claims in order to gauge the direct impact of the reforms supported with this operation.

Implementation: The M&E and implementation arrangements were continuous
throughout the preparation phase and contributed to the implementation of key reforms
and the achievement of development objectives.

Utilization: The operation supported measures to improve financial sector indicators, and
to reform/ enhance the regulation and supervision of the bank and non-bank financial
sectors. Therefore, systematic efforts were made with the authorities to define a mix of
quantitative and qualitative indicators to facilitate monitoring.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

A new financial sector Development Policy Operation is currently under preparation.
This is necessary considering that vulnerabilities in the financial sector remain regarding


                                             18
the further reduction of NPLs and the restoration of credit growth across the financial
sector, as well as the systemic risks posed by the investment funds sector. The financial
sector risks are exacerbated by the Greek debt crisis and continued parent de-leveraging
pressures towards Albania and other Balkan countries (see section 4 for details).

While the Albanian authorities cannot directly influence developments in Greece and the
Eurozone, they can proactively further prepare to mitigate risks and effectively manage
potential negative effects. Broadly, the new DPL is expected to focus on the following
areas: (i) adopt legal reform measures to further reduce NPLs and better ensure the
resiliency of the financial sector; (ii) extend coverage of the deposit insurance framework
to legal entities; (iii) strengthen the regulation, supervision and resolution regime of
Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs); and (iv) strengthen the regulation of investment
funds.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the operation were consistent with the first pillar of the Bank’s Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY10-FY13: “supporting a recovery in Albania's growth
rates through improved competitiveness, by strengthening macroeconomic and public
expenditure management, improving the business climate, addressing infrastructure
bottlenecks, and deepening access to credit”. They were also in line with the
Government’s National Strategy for Development and Investment that emphasizes the
importance of the financial sector as a key objective in Pillar 1, towards helping
businesses in gaining access to capital needed to support medium and long-term
investment.

Moreover, the objectives of this operation are also coherent with the objectives of the
new Country Partnership Framework (2015-2019). The new CPF has three broad focus
areas: (i) restoring macroeconomic balances, (ii) creating conditions for accelerated
private sector growth, and (iii) strengthening public sector management and services. The
CPF considers macro-fiscal sustainability and financial sector stability to be the highest
priority, having a fundamental impact on the country’s ability to move towards a
sustainable growth model. It lays a strong program of technical and financial support to
implement the agreed medium-term macro-fiscal framework, including addressing
financial sector vulnerabilities.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

This ICR assesses the key expected results and outcomes at the end of the operation, as
shown in the Project Document.
The PDO of the operation was to strengthen the financial sector regulatory and
supervisory regime and mitigate key vulnerabilities of the bank and non-bank financial
sectors. Overall, the project achieved the PDO on strengthening the financial sector
regulatory and supervisory regime and on mitigating key vulnerabilities in the bank and


                                            19
non-bank financial sectors as: (i) intensity of supervision of banks now depends on their
risk profile and systemic relevance, also enabling BoA to make better use of its limited
resources; (ii) the banking sector is more prepared to withstand adverse shocks with
formalized recovery plans; (iii) with their enhanced independence, ADIA and AFSA are
able to discharge their core obligations more efficiently; and (iv) writing off of NPLs is
facilitated through regulatory and legislative changes.
 The DPL was structured around three pillars to achieve the PDO: (i) strengthen
regulation and supervision of the banking sector and financial safety net; (ii) expedite
resolution of non-performing loans (NPLs); and (iii) strengthen regulation and
supervision of Non Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs).
The DPL strengthened the ability of the BoA to identify and better supervise banking
sector risks. The level of NPLs, despite belated decline, remains high on the back of
sluggish economic growth, continued difficulties with the collateral execution process,
and weaknesses of the judiciary system. The approval of the new Deposit Insurance Law
increased the budgetary independence and payout efficiency of ADIA. The assessment of
eligible SCAs for inclusion in the deposit insurance scheme has been slowed down by the
arrest and discharge of the former BoA Governor, and the protracted search for his
successor. Due to significant legal reforms passed by the parliament, the AFSA has
gained full financial and operational independence to regulate and supervise the non-bank
financial institutions. The Insurance sector has abided by the stabilization measures
imposed by the AFSA to replenish the insurance compensation fund. As result, all the
results envisaged by this DPL have been achieved to a large extent.

The achievement of objectives is elaborated below.

Strengthening regulation and supervision of the banking sector and financial safety
net.
   The new Risk Based Supervisory Manual which was approved by BoAs Supervisory
    Council in December 2014, was first tested/ introduced by supervision staff during
    the inspections of 2014. The new manual was applied alongside with the old
    inspection manual for a transition period. The new manual fully replaced the old
    manual for the inspections carried out starting in January 2015. As of end March
    2015, six banks (5 full scope examinations – 1 partial examination), out of which four
    were large systemic banks, were inspected using the new risk based supervision
    manual.
   “According to the BoA Supervisory Council decision (Nr.11) on the 26th of February
    2014, banks operating in Albania that are determined as systemically important shall
    submit to BoA their Recovery Plans (RPs) by the end of the first quarter. In order to
    enhance their work towards fulfilling the requirements presented in the approved
    decision, the Supervision Department of BoA prepared instruction material during
    2014 that was sent to systemically important banks in January 2015. After receiving
    the RPs, the Supervision Department of BoA is to assess compatibility with the
    requirements laid out in the above mentioned decision Nr.11. All seven systemic
    banks have submitted the RPs to BoA.


                                           20
   The new deposit insurance Law was approved in Parliament in May 2014. It brought
    ADIA closer in line with the core principles established by the International
    Association of Deposit Insurers (IADI), and specifically: (i) ensures ADIA’s
    budgetary independence and enforcement powers; (ii) increases its efficiency in
    deposit payout; (iii) improves reserve management requirements; (iv) ensures legal
    protection for ADIA staff; and (v) defines the level of coverage and premiums for
    Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs). As result of the amended powers, ADIA’s
    board approved in January 2015 the new budget without BoA’s ratification and ADIA
    completed the assessment of compliance of SCAs in September 2014.
Expediting resolution of NPLs
   All the five implemented prior actions in Pillar 2 (#4, #5, #6, #7 and #8) were
    expected to cumulatively contribute to the reduction of the NPL ratio (23.5% as of
    end-2013, stock of Lek 132 billion) to 20 percent or less, with the write-off of at least
    Lek 20 billion of NPLs, by end of March 2015. Despite six months the delay in the
    enforcement of related regulation, Lek 20.3billion of NPLs were written off in total as
    of September 2016 in line with the project team’s target. As a result the NPL ratio
    also came down to 20.60 percent in September 2015 broadly in line with the targeted
    outcome.
   It should be noted that the operation’s success on reduction of the NPL ratio was
    underestimated as the annualized credit growth reached as low as -3.2 percent in
    September 2015 causing an unfavorable denominator effect. In addition, the NPL
    ratio increased to 24.9 percent in September 2014 exceeding the baseline level of 23.5
    percent. These were due to various external factors including but not limited to; (i)
    the tepid 2014 economic recovery in country; (ii) the Eurozone pressures on the
    financial sector that persisted through parent banks; and (iii) the heightened Greek
    crisis spillover effect looming over the banking sector (18% of the total sector).

    o The fall in NPL is partly related to the implementation of the following policy
      actions supported by this DPL: The Parliament approved on 3 April 2014 the
      amendments of Tax Law No. 8438 to resolve key uncertainties regarding the tax
      deductible treatment for NPLs in prolonged litigation. This was expected to help
      lower NPL rates and could foster the sale of some banks’ NPL loan books.

    o The BoA Supervisory Council amended on 2 Feb 2014 the regulation on “Credit
      Risk Administration” that obliged banks to write-off loans that have been in the
      “loss” category after three years’ time, regardless of the status of pending legal
      actions. This prudential measure, which entered in force in January 2015, in
      combination with tax legislative changes to remove tax ambiguities, enables
      banks to write-off stale dated NPLs. The effect of this regulation on NPLs has
      materialized in September 2015 as mentioned above.
   In addition to these prior actions that showed immediate impact on the NPL ratio,
    following prior actions were useful for long-term improvement in the NPL resolution
    framework:

    o The BoA issued in October 2013 three sets of guidelines on: (i) loan restructuring


                                             21
       for businesses; (ii) loan restructuring for individuals; and (iii) real estate appraisal,
       based on international good practice. The restructuring guidelines aim to
       encourage a common standard around debt restructurings in Albania. The real
       estate appraisal guideline should help all appraisers reach more justified valuation
       conclusions, increasing confidence in the marketplace and improving the climate
       for NPL resolution.

    o The BoA Supervisory Council adopted on 26 Feb 2014 a new regulation on “Risk
      Administration for Banks’ Large Exposures” to strengthen credit underwriting
      practices and NPL recovery and resolution for large borrowers. Large borrowers
      constitute a significant portion of banks’ total loan portfolios. The BoA has
      introduced new regulatory requirements to increase banks’ Steering Council
      members’ responsibilities towards NPLs, and keep them more directly involved in
      the ‘decision chain’ regarding large loan exposures, including loan approvals,
      restructurings and NPL management.

    o Private bailiffs are, in practice, normally paid in full by creditors at the beginning
      of the collateral execution process, irrespective of their success. As such, the
      incentive for private bailiffs to promptly fulfill their collateral execution mandate
      is not well aligned with a speedy collateral execution process. The lack of a
      market incentive for private bailiffs has proven an important impediment to
      collateral execution and NPL resolution. Thus, the MoJ and the MoF issued on 5
      March 2014 a new Joint Instruction to provide market based incentives for private
      bailiffs’ compensation. This caused strong backlash by private bailiffs that
      challenged the joint instruction in court, which sided with the private bailiffs. The
      authorities, however, subsequently appealed the decision to the High Court of
      Appeals. A decision by the court has not been taken yet.

   Going forward, expediting resolution of NPLs is also one of the objectives of the
    upcoming DPO.


Strengthening regulation and supervision of NBFIs
   The Parliament approved all the necessary legal amendments put forward by the
    Government that would ensure the full financial and operational independence of
    AFSA. This included amendments to the AFSA law and to the Law on Salaries and
    Structure of Independent Institutions, and the new Insurance Bill, which were
    approved in May 2014. A fourth amendment, removing AFSA from the Civil Service
    law, was approved in December 2014.
   The amendments to the AFSA law, inter alia, changed the structure of the AFSA
    Board from 7 to 5 members, separated the positions of the Chairperson and CEO in
    compliance, and improved board membership criteria. The Parliament approved in
    December 2014 three new board members (including the members which also act as
    CEO and deputy CEO).
   The MTPL Compensation Fund is replenished as expected. Following the AFSA’s
    Board decision (February 2014), the insurance companies were obliged to contribute


                                              22
   ALL 1,348 million (around EUR 10 million) into the compensation fund to pay
   insurance claims pending at the Motor Bureau, as per the following schedule:
       Year 2014 – ALL 430 million
       Year 2015 – ALL 450 million
       Year 2016 – ALL 468 million
   During 2014, a total of ALL 451.5 million was paid into the compensation fund, or
   more than the agreed amount for the year.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The FSM DPL was a high-risk and complex operation, developed at the time of severe
economic downturn, high public debt and arrears levels, which reflected heavily on the
financial sector through sharply rising investment funds and NPLs -- and equally, a sharp
decrease in credit growth. Considering the difficult regional and domestic environment,
the project achieved the PDO on strengthening the financial sector regulatory and
supervisory regime and on mitigating key vulnerabilities in the bank and non-bank
financial sectors.

The results indicators were highly relevant all seven of them were achieved albeit one
(NPLs) with a minor delay. Although the NPL ratios still remains high, the successful
expedition in the NPL resolution had strengthen the banks’ balance sheets and supported
the recovery of the financial sector’s intermediary role. Meanwhile, the operation helped
the AFSA and the ADIA to gain full operational independence, and the insurance
companies made substantial contributions to the insurance claims compensation fund. In
particular, owing to the close collaboration between the authorities and project team
throughout the preparation phase, the banking sector remains resilient and BoA is better
positioned to supervise the sector. All in all, the project was successful to attain its
development objectives and hence the overall outcome is rated as satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

There were no measured poverty impacts specifically related to this operation.
Nevertheless, the reforms proposed under this operation are expected to have overall
positive poverty and social impact, through mitigating financial sector vulnerabilities
which, if realized, would undermine broad-based growth. A sound and stable financial
sector intermediating funds to the economy is essential for sustained economic growth,
which in the long term contributes to poverty reduction and shared prosperity. Moreover,
effective financial sector reforms increase the availability of credit and extend the reach
of savings, payment and insurance services to the poor, rural dwellers and micro-
enterprises alike.

Also, financial sector reforms supported by this operation reduce the likelihood of a


                                              23
financial sector crisis, which can be costly to depositors and fiscal authorities alike, and
can affect the poor disproportionately -- leading to an increase in poverty. Reforms that
support NPL resolution promote financial sector stability and encourage new credit flows
to the economy, helping finance both consumption needs and productive investments,
necessary for economic growth.

Moreover, a well-functioning insurance sector, which honors its MTPL obligations on a
timely basis, is in the interest of every policy holder who owns an automobile or who has
been negatively affected through an accident. In addition, reforms that include bringing
eligible SCAs into the deposit insurance scheme provide an important new measure of
protection for small depositors and the low income earners in rural areas. SCAs have
around 52,000 members, of which 18% are women.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The BoA benefited from changes in several regulations that strengthened its ability to
oblige banks’ to tackle their NPLs, improve their resilience and their willingness to
generate new credits.

As result of the legal changes supported by this operation, the AFSA gained full
operational and financial independence. It is now capable of approving its own structure,
and establishing a competitive remuneration scheme to attract and retain well educated
and experienced staff. This a major reform and is expected to have an important positive
long-term effect on the small but fast growing non-bank financial sector, as AFSA
upgrades its regulatory and supervisory capacities.

The approval of the new Deposit Insurance Law was an important step for institutional
strengthening of the ADIA through enhancing: (i) ADIA’s budgetary independence and
enforcement powers; (ii) its efficiency in deposit payout; (iii) its reserve management
requirements; (iv) the legal protection for ADIA staff.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

With the proposal of the government, the amendments to the AFSA law did include
provisions to change the structure of the AFSA Board and strengthen the board
membership criteria. As a result, the Board membership was reduced from 7 to 5, and the
positions of Chair and CEO were separated. The requirements for board membership
included additional criteria for experience and technical skills, as well as with regard to
conflict of interest. This was deemed as positive by the WB team, as it was in compliance
with best corporate governance principles and further helped to strengthen AFSA towards
fulfilling its statutory mandate.

The challenges encountered during (and subsequent to) the approval of the new joint
instruction for private bailiffs has led the authorities and WB team to conclude that the
best long-term solution is to advance changes to the Code of Civil Procedure (CCP).
Upon implementation, changes to the CCP would provide an unequivocal basis for


                                            24
bailiffs’ incentivized fee scheme, and make it difficult to introduce changes in the future
given the requirement that a two-thirds majority in Parliament is necessary to change the
CCP.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

Overall macroeconomic risks were substantial given Albania’s external vulnerability
owing to the slow Eurozone economic recovery and the regional environment in which
the country operates. Slower than expected growth in Southeast Europe and the EU may
further dampen Albania’s recovery, which would further strain an already weak fiscal
situation due to high public debt and less than expected tax collection. Slower recovery
would affect the corporate sector.

The rising of uncertainties regarding the Greek debt crisis casts a long shadow over the
Albanian economy and its financial sector. Greece is one of the main economic partners
of Albania, and a large number of Albanian economic emigrants live and work in Greece.
Greek-owned banks may come under further pressure, although these banks are well-
capitalized, liquid and not reliant on parent-funding. The Albanian crisis management
framework should be further strengthened in preparation.
Several factors contributed positively to the mitigation of these risks. Albania has a three
year EFF program with IMF, as well as strong cooperation and support by the World
Bank through existing and planned operations that will help Albania to meet its financing
needs, while providing the support needed to strengthen its fiscal and debt sustainability,
lower public financing risks, and put the economy on a sustained growth path. The
approval of Albania’s EU candidacy status in mid-2014 reconfirms the strategic
orientation and focus of the country, and serves as a policy anchor with regard to key
economic, legal and financial reforms.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance


(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory



                                              25
The comprehensive design of this operation, reflects a robust, well thought out set of
prior actions and key expected outcomes. The project design benefited from the findings
and recommendation of the late 2013 FSAP. It also benefited from frequent new
guidance disseminated from the global financial crisis, e.g. from the new focus on macro-
prudential oversight, defining a global liquidity standard and identification of key
attributes of a bank resolution regime, new EBA reporting standards and capital
requirements, EU draft Directives circulated for comment, etc. The WB team was quick
to enter into contact with the new government following the June 2013 elections to
discuss priorities and establish areas of potential support, including the reform areas
covered by the FSM DPL.

The set of indicators chosen was a good mix of high level indicators and more closely
focused institutional and sub-sector indicators, which served as a reasonable proxy for
strengthening and maintaining financial stability.

Considering the high level of effort and expertise engaged, in the midst of the weak
economic situation and the financial sector’s deteriorated financial performance during
the project preparation phase, the quality at entry of the Bank is assessed as Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank devised an effective approach to work with counterparts in the development of
the financial sector reform program. The Bank cooperated effectively with the MoF that
was the coordinator of activities on the Borrower’s side, and maintained very close
cooperation with the MoJ, BoA, ADIA and AFSA.

The Bank assisted the authorities through a number of challenging reforms with
persistence and by delivering high level support in these policy areas. By all indications,
the counterparts in the Government were satisfied with the technical support and
systematic approach to reforms provided by the Bank Team.

Moreover, the task team monitored the timely adoption and effective implementation of
the agreed policy actions. They also validated the Borrower’s monitoring and evaluation
findings on the progress and results of policies implementation. Further, the task team
regularly consulted and coordinated with the IMF in carrying out its supervision work.
Therefore, the quality of supervision has been assessed as Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance is rated Satisfactory since the Bank performance in both
Ensuring Quality at Entry and in Quality of Supervision were rated Satisfactory.




                                            26
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government and Implementing Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Authorities advanced their respective institutional and regulatory frameworks to
strengthen regulation and supervision of the banking sector and its safety net; expedited
resolution of NPL; and strengthen regulation and supervision of NBFIs. A significant
number of major law amendments and regulations were introduced as a result of this
operation. Cooperation with the Bank by the MoF, MoJ, BoA, AFSA, and ADIA was
very strong, with often difficult discussions as to specific reform measures. The
authorities completed all of the FSM DPL prior actions, readily shared information with
the Bank team, and continued to implement reforms in a very difficult regional and
domestic environment.

The Government showed strong commitment to the consultation process, i.e. through
consultation with stakeholders on important legislative amendments and regulatory
reforms alike. In implementing agreed upon measures, the professionalism, dedication of
the Government, BOA, ADIA, and AFSA counterparts proved to be determinant factors.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Government, the BoA, ADIA, and AFSA was deemed
satisfactory as most of the prior actions and key outcome indicators have been achieved
on a timely basis.

6. Lessons Learned

It is important to maintain sufficient flexibility to adapt and respond to client needs and
economic realities in the country. As the risks in the financial sector were high during the
preparation phase, adding a strong sense of urgency to the need to adopt financial sector
related reforms, the team worked hard to build sufficient ownership of the many policy
and regulatory changes. In particular, previous engagement through knowledge sharing
activities (the 2013 FSAP, TAs with BoA) also enabled the WBG to react quickly to the
pressing needs of counterparts. This approach proved the importance of continuous
engagement with client through capacity building/ technical assistance activities during
the absence of a lending project.

Alignment of key policy makers and a high level commitment to the reform agenda are
key for the completion of relatively ambitious prior actions, and should be considered
carefully at the design phase. Thanks to this productive reform environment, authorities
successfully completed a large number of prior actions requiring legislative changes.




                                            27
It is crucial to carefully check and recognize in advance the ability of groups of
stakeholders/ interests that are affected by policy measures to lobby with authorities
(government and parliament) and amend/ deflect the scope of reform to their interest. This
would better prepare the authorities and the WB to discuss, to the needed extend and
detail, the issues with the groups of interest and, if no common understanding is reached
with them, raise adequate safeguards and understanding with the decision makers to push
the reform agenda forward. There were two such cases during this operation regarding the
bailiffs and SCAs.

On the selection of results indicators, a high level indicator (NPLs) could ensure the
client’s ownership and motivation to support large number of reforms involving different
governmental bodies. However as these type of indicators could be influenced by various
external and domestic factors, gauging the project’s direct impact is hard even an
indicator is supported by a sub-indicator that is directly related to the reforms supported
by the operation (in this operation’s case amount of write off). Determining baseline and
targets is also challenging when using these indicators that are exposed to volatility.

The regular coordination with other partners, combined with providing necessary
technical assistance on a timely basis, positively impacted the outcomes achieved.
Cooperation with other international agencies (IMF, USAID, and EU) proved essential,
given the extensive technical assistance that needed to be coordinated and aligned with
the country’s and sector’s priorities. In particular, this project benefited extensively from
coordination with IMF on knowledge sharing activities as well as the Fund’s three year
EFF program. This program has ensured the adequacy of macroeconomic framework by
helping Albania to meet its external financing needs, while providing the necessary
support to strengthen fiscal and debt sustainability, lower public financing risks, and put
the economy on a sustained growth path.

This operation by its nature included fundamental reforms that form the ground for further
improvements. Hence, it was very suitable for a programmatic approach. Accordingly, the
WBG is currently working on a follow-up DPO with the authorities in the financial sector.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
None

(b) Cofinanciers

None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

None




                                            28
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Michael Edwards           Lead Financial Sector Specialist       GFMDR    Team Leader
Vahe Vardanyan            Senior Financial Sector Specialist     GFMDR    Team Member
Bujana Perolli            Financial Sector Specialist            GFMDR    Team Member
Eugene Gurenko            Lead Financial Sector Specialist       GFMDR    Team Member
Claire McGuire            Consultant                             GFMDR    Team Member
Alena Kantarovich         Financial Analyst                      GFMDR    Team Member
Maria Davalos             Senior Economist                       GPVDR    Team Member
Alma Qamo                 Consultant                             GFMDR    Team Member
Erik Huitfeldt            Consultant                             GFM01    Team Member
Bernardo Barros           Consultant                             GSU13    Team Member
Doerte Doemeland          Lead Economist                         GMFDR    Team Member
Abebe Adugna              Advisor                                 MDI     Team Member
Rajeev Swami              Lead Financial Management Specialist   GGODR    Team Member

Supervision
Michael Edwards           Lead Financial Sector Specialist       GFMDR    Team Leader
Keler Gjika               Consultant                             GFMDR    Team Member
Alena Kantarovich         Financial Analyst                      GFMDR    Team Member
Juan Buchenau             Senior Financial Sector Specialist     GFMDR    Team Member
Samuel Maimbo             Practice Manager                       GFMDR    Team Member
Luis Trevino              Senior Financial Sector Specialist     GFMDR    Team Member



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                          USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:                 58.09                   400,213.35
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:                 55.52                   189,062.07




                                            29
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         (if any)




                                      30
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        (if any)




                                   31
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Re: Comments on the draft ICR

This was a very timely and useful operation for setting the stage to push further important
reforms that will improve the efficiency and the soundness of the financial sector in
Albania. Through this operation the coordination between key stakeholders in the
financial sector, CB, MoF/MoJ/Government, FSA and others has been strengthened.

This operation has set a solid ground to move with more decisive measures to reduce
NPLs, now followed with a high level WG and the second operation. It has also set the
stage for improving access to credit through an upgrade of the microfinance framework
that has been rather stagnating in the past. These are important factors that will support
growth in the future.

                                                            Erjon Luci
                                                            Deputy Minister of Finance

(Email received on June 18, 2015)




                                            32
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    33
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents




                                    34
                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33359R1
                                          19°E                                                                    20°E                                                                        21°E
                                                 MONTENEGRO


                                                                                     Maja Jezercë
                                                                                        (2693 m)              Valbona
                                                                                                              Valbon
                                                                                                                                                                                   KOSOVO
                                                                             MALSI E            lps
                                                                                       banian A
        ALBANIA                                                               North Al      TROPOJË
                                                         To
                                                  Podgorica
                                                                             MADHE                  Bajram
                                                                          Han i Hoti                                        Curri
                                                                          Koplik                                            Dri
                                                                                                                  Fierzë       n
                                                                                                                                            HAS                          To
                                                         Lake                     SHKODËR                                                                                Prizren
                                                        Scutari                                                                                   Krumë
                                                                                                              PUKË
                                                                             Shkodër                     Koman
                                                                             (Scutari)
                                                                                                            Pukë           Fush                           Kukës
                                                                                                                           Arrëz        Kalimash
42°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42°N
                                                                                                                                          KUKËS
                                                         Bunë

                                                                                       LEZHË                                        Zall-Rec
                                                                                                         MIRDITË
                                                                          Shëngjin
                                                                   Drinit Bay                     Rubik




                                                                                                                                          Drin i Zi
                                                                                                                     Kurbneshi
                                                                              Lezhë                         Rrëshen
                                                                                                                    Lake                Peshkopi
                                                                                                Shkopet             Ulzës
                                                                  Fushë Kuge           Laç                 Ulëz
                                                                                                                    Burrel
                                                                   Rodonit Bay
                                                                                     LAÇ                                                DIBRA
                                                                                             Mamurasi             M AT
                                                                                                   Krujë
                                                                   Lalëzit
                      Adriatic                                      Bay                     KRUJË                                                                                       FY R
                                                                    DURRËS
                                                                                             Fushë
                                                                                             Krujë
                                                                                                                            Bulquizë
                                                                                                                                    BULQIZË
                                                                                                                                                                                    MA CEDON I A
                               Sea                        Durrës                        Vorë
                                                                                        Vo rë
                                                                                                         TIRANË
                                                                                                         (TIRANA)
                                                                                   Shijak
                                                                  Durrësit                      TIRANË
                                                                   Bay                                         Ibë
                                                                                                                                             Librazhd                    To
                                                                    Kavajë                                           Krrabë                                            Struga
                                                                                                                                          LIBRAZHD
                                                                   KAVAJË                                                    Elbasan
                                                                                                PEQIN                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                    Vidhës
                                                                                                                    Vid hës                           Perrenjas
41°N                                                                                             Peqin                                                                          Ohrid
                                                                                                                     ELBASAN                                                                                           41°N
                                                         Karavastasë                  HNJË
                                                                                L U S HN                           Cërrik
                                                            Bay
                                                                                  Lushnjë                                                                POGRADEC                                   Lake
                                                                                                          Kajan                                                                                    Prespa
                                                                                                                                       Gramsh                Pogradec

                                                                                                   KUÇOVË                         GRAMSH
                                                                     FIER                                   Kuçovë
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Little
                                                                           Fier                                   Berat                                                                                      Lake Prespa
                                                                                         Marinzë
                                                                                      Patos                                                                             Maliq            DEVOLL
                                                                                                           B E R AT                                         K O R Ç Ë Korçë
                                                                Kafaraj
                                                                                                Ballsh                                                                                       Bilisht
                                                                                   Vjosë
                                                                                             MALLA-                                      APAR
                                                                                                                                   S K R APA R
 0     10        20    30      40 Kilometers
                                                                                             KASTER
                                                                                                                                        Çorovodë
                                                                                     Selenice
 0          10            20         30 Miles                    Vlorës      Vlorë                   TE P E L E N Ë
                                                                  Bay
                                                                                                     Krahës                                                                 Ersekë
                                        19°E                                        Mavrovë
                                                                                                                                    PËRMET
                                                                             VLORË                                                                               KOLONJË
                                                                                                         Tepelenë Kelcyrë
                                                                                                                                                      Përmet
        ALBA N I A
                                                                                                                                                                 P




                                                                                                                                                                                          GREE CE
                                                                                                                                                         Vjo


                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                                                                           ë s



                                                                                                                                                                       du




                                                                                                                       J I R OK AS TË R
                                                                                                                     G JI
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                           s




                                                                                                                                    Gjirokastër
                                                                                                                                                                                M




                 DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                      40°N                                                   DELVINË                                                                                                   40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                   ou




                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                 Delvinë
                                                                                                                                                                                     nt




                                                                                                                                                                To
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                                      Ioánina
                                                                                                                                                                                        ai




                                                                                                         Sarandë
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                            Kakavija
                                                                                                                                                                                          n




                                                                             GREECE
                                                                                                                                                                                            s




                 RAILROADS                                                                                                 SARANDË
                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                  20°E                                                                            21°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JULY 2009
