       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020170


1. Project Data



  Operation ID                                          Operation Name
  P146280                                               AL Financial Sector DPL

  Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
  Albania                                               Finance & Markets



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Financing (USD)
  IBRD-83730                                            30-Jun-2015                                                            100,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  15-May-2014                                           30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                             Co-financing (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           100,000,000.00                                                           0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            100,000,000.00                                                           0.00

  Actual                                                         96,279,914.78                                                           0.00




 Sector(s)
 Banking(80%):General finance sector(20%)

 Theme(s)
 Other Financial Sector Development(70%):Legal institutions for a market economy(30%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Nestor Ntungwanayo                  Fernando Manibog                    Christopher David Nelson           IEGFP (Unit 3)




2. Project Objectives and Policy Areas


a. Objectives
    The PDO is to strengthen the financial sector regulatory and supervisory regime and mitigate key vulnerabilities of the bank and non-bank
    financial sectors (Program Document on page 3).




b. Were the program objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation of the series?
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)



     No



c.   Pillars/Policy Areas
      The DPO supported three policy areas set out in the program document as follows:
      (i) Strengthening regulation and supervision of the banking sector and financial safety net: Key targeted outcomes included
      enhanced inspections of main banks and adoption of recovery plans by all banks, and compliance of eligible savings and credit associations
      (SCA) with requirements of the Albania Deposits Insurance Authority (ADIA). Prior actions achieved under this policy area were the
      following: (i) the Bank of Albania (BOA) Supervisory Council adopted a new comprehensive risk-based supervisory manual and a new
      supervisory operational policy to increase effectiveness of banking supervision, (ii) the BOA Supervisory Council issued a new instruction for
      banks to adopt recovery plans to demonstrate their ability to operate during periods of stress, and finally (iii) amendments to the Law on
      Deposit Insurance were accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers and submitted to Parliament, to better align the legislation and operations of
      Albania Deposits Insurance Authority (ADIA) with the Core Principles for Effective Deposit Insurance Systems.
      (ii) Expediting the resolution of non-performing loans (NPLs): Outcomes expected under this policy area were a decrease in the ratio of
      NPLs/total loans, and a write off of a pre-set level of NPLs. Five prior actions were completed before operation approval as follows: (i) the
      Cabinet of Ministers submitted draft amendments of tax law No.8438 to Parliament to resolve key NPL tax ambiguities to enable banks to
      write-off NPLs in protracted litigation, (ii) the BOA Supervisory Council adopted amended regulation on “Credit Risk Administration” for the
      obligatory write-off of stale-dated NPLs following a fixed period of time classified in the “loss category, (iii) the BOA issued three sets of
      guidelines on: (a) loan restructuring for businesses; (b) loan restructuring for individuals; and (c) real estate appraisal, based on international
      good practice, (iv) the BOA Supervisory Council adopted a new regulation on “Risk Administration for Banks’ Large Exposures” to
      strengthen credit underwriting practices and NPL recovery and resolution for large borrowers, and finally (v) the Ministry of Justice and the
      Ministry of Finance issued new instructions to provide market-based incentives for private bailiffs’ compensation.
      (iii) Strengthening regulation and supervision of non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs): Key expected outcomes were the adoption of
      a new organizational structure for the Albania Financial Sector Authority (AFSA) Board and market-based salary scale, and the
      replenishment of the Motor Third party Liability (MTPL) Compensation Fund. Two prior actions were completed under this policy area
      before approval: (i) to ensure that AFSA achieves financial and operational independence and the Cabinet of Ministers accept and submit to
      Parliament a new Insurance bill, amendments to the AFSA Law, a Law on Salaries of Independent Institutions, and the Civil Servant Law;
      and (ii) the AFSA adopted market stabilization measures by issuing a regulation on minimum Motor Third Party Liability (MTPL) reserving
      standards, as well as a time-bound plan to replenish the funding of the Compensation Fund.




d. Comments on Program Cost, Financing, and Dates
      Costs: Total costs amounted to a disbursed amount of US$96.3 million.
      Financing: The operation was financed by an IBRD loan of US$100.0 million, out of which US$3.7 million was not withdrawn and cancelled
      when the operation closed.
      Borrower Contribution: There was no planned borrower contribution, and none took place.
      Dates: The operation was approved on March 31, 2014 and closed on schedule on June 30, 2015




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     At appraisal, the DPL objectives were highly relevant as they were in line with the pillars of the country's and Bank's strategies. The objectives
     were consistent with the following pillars of the National Strategy for Development and Integration (NSDI) for 2014- 2020: (i) growth through
     fiscal stability and increased competitiveness; and (ii) sustainable growth through efficient use of resources. While implementing the two
     pillars of the strategy, the Albanian financial sector authorities have undertaken significant reforms in recent years to address vulnerabilities in
     the financial sector. The reforms aimed to encourage the development of the financial sector, complementing and building on the reforms
     supported by the proposed operation, in the areas of NPL management and resolution, enhancement of the deposit insurance framework,
     public debt management and government bond market development, regulatory framework for investment funds, and corporate financial
     reporting. In particular, they were also in line with the Government’s National Strategy for Development and Investment that emphasizes the
     importance of the financial sector as a key objective in Pillar 1, towards helping businesses in gaining access to capital needed to support
     medium and long-term investment.
     The DPO objectives were consistent with the first pillar of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY10-FY13: “supporting a
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)



       recovery in Albania's growth rates through improved competitiveness, by strengthening macroeconomic and public expenditure management,
       improving the business climate, addressing infrastructure bottlenecks, and deepening access to credit”. Moreover, the objectives of this
       operation are also coherent with the objectives of the new Country Partnership Framework (2015-2019). The new CPF had three broad focus
       areas: (i) restoring macroeconomic balances, (ii) creating conditions for accelerated private sector growth, and (iii) strengthening public sector
       management and services. The CPF considers macro-fiscal sustainability and financial sector stability to be the highest priority, having a
       fundamental impact on the country’s ability to move towards a sustainable growth model. It lays a strong program of technical and financial
       support to implement the agreed medium-term macro-fiscal framework, including addressing financial sector vulnerabilities. Overall, the PDO
       objectives were simple and clearly defined, and were still highly relevant when the operation closed.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The country's macroeconomic policy framework was considered adequate at approval. The Government was committed to fiscal consolidation,
       to arrears clearance, and to putting public debt on a downward trajectory. The 2014 budget included significant fiscal consolidation
       measures and fiscal policy was calibrated to accommodate a gradual recovery of real sector growth while steadily reducing public sector debt
       from 2014 onwards. The planned pace of fiscal consolidation was also supported by structural policies in support of growth, such as reforms of
       the energy and financial sector as well as improvements in the business climate. In parallel to the preparation of the Financial Sector
       Modernization DPL, a proposed First Public Finance and Growth DPL was the first in a series of two programmatic development policy loans
       that aim to minimize the macroeconomic vulnerabilities, by improving Albania's public finances and sustaining poverty-reducing growth.
       Prior actions were carefully selected, were achievable, and set the stage for the continuation of the reform agenda. For instance, toward fast
       resolution of NPLs, prior actions consisted of a series legal and regulatory measures aimed at enabling banks to write-off NPLs in protracted
       litigation; and, for those classified in the loss category, to strengthen NPL recovery and resolution for large borrowers, as well as to provide
       market-based incentives for private bailiffs' compensation. The results framework was adequate, and was comprised of six outcome
       indicators, each of them having a baseline and a target. The outcome indicators were specific and achievable, like the adoption of a new
       AFSA organizational structure, or the submission of recovery plans by banks. There was a logical chain between the prior actions, the outputs
       and outcome indicators, and the DPL objectives. As an illustration, in order to allow the MTPL to pay insurance claims, the DPL supported the
       revision of MTPL regulations as a prior action, and targeted the replenishment of the MTPL compensation fund.
       Overall, the financial sector DPL was an adequate response to the country's fiscal imbalances. It aimed to complement another parallel series
       of DPLs and strengthen the institutional and operational performance of the country's financial sector.




       Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     (i) To strengthen the financial sector regulatory and supervisory regime:

    Rationale
    Progress made toward outcome indicators is as delineated below:
    (i) When the operation closed, six banks (four being large systemic banks) were inspected, using the new risk-based supervision manual,
    against a target of 5 banks, including at least two systemic banks. The new risk-based supervisory manual, which was approved by the
    BOA Supervisory Council in December 2014, fully replaced the old manual for the inspections carried out starting in January 2015.
    (ii) The Supervision Department of the BOA prepared instruction material during 2014 that was sent to systemically important banks in
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)



    January 2015. All seven systemic banks determined as systemically important submitted enhanced Recovery Plans (RPs) to BOA, in line
    with the new BOA instruction that formalizes the content to be included in banks’ recovery plans. After receiving the RPs, the Supervision
    Department of BOA is to assess compatibility with the requirements laid out in the above-mentioned instruction.
    (iii) The new deposit insurance Law brought ADIA closer in line with the core principles established by the International Association of
    Deposit Insurers (IADI), and specifically: (i) ensured ADIA’s budgetary independence and enforcement powers; (ii) increased its efficiency
    in deposit payout; (iii) improved reserve management requirements; (iv) ensured legal protection for ADIA staff; and (v) defined the level of
    coverage and premiums for Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs). By end-March 2015, ADIA completed the assessment of compliance
    of eligible SCAs with the legal and technical requirements of ADIA, in order to ensure that eligible SCAs enter the deposit insurance
    scheme by end-2015. The assessment of compliance of SCAs eligible to enter the deposit insurance scheme was completed in September
    2014, ahead of the deadline set for end-2015.
    (iv)The new ADIA Law empowered ADIA’s board to approve the new budget without BOA’s ratification. As result of the amended powers,
    ADIA’s board approved in January 2015 the new budget without BOA’s ratification.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     (ii) To mitigate key vulnerabilities of the bank and non-bank financial sectors

    Rationale
    Outputs and outcomes achieved toward this sub-objective are delineated below:
    (i) By end-March 2015, the ratio of NPLs/total loans was to decline to 20 percent or less, with the write-off of at least ALL 20 billion of NPLs.
    After peaking at 24.9% in September 2014, the NPL ratio fell to 20.6 % as of end-September 2015, and Lek 20.3billion of NPLs were
    written off by the end of September 2015, six months after the targeted date due to the delay in the enforcement.
    (ii) AFSA’s Board was to adopt its own organizational structure and market-based salary scale independently from Parliament, allowing it
    to regulate and supervise NBFIs more effectively. The Parliament approved all the necessary legal amendments put forward by the
    Government that would ensure the full financial and operational independence of AFSA. The new AFSA board, based on the powers
    granted through amendments, has currently full power to approve AFSA’s organizational structure and salary scale. Indeed, AFSA
    approved its own structure, including a new salary scale.
    (iii) By end March-2015, the MTPL Compensation Fund was to be replenished in the amount of ALL 430 Million to enable payment of
    pending insurance claims. Following the AFSA’s Board decision (February 2014), the insurance companies were obliged to
    contribute ALL 1,348 million (around EUR 10 million) into the compensation fund to pay insurance claims pending at the Motor Bureau.
    The MTPL Compensation Fund was replenished as expected, with an achievement ratio of 105%. During 2014, a total of ALL 451.5 million
    was paid into the Compensation Fund, or more than the agreed amount for the year.




    Rating
    Substantial



   5. Outcome

   Throughout the period of DPO implementation, economic recovery continued, with GDP growth reaching about 2.8 percent in
   2015. Inflation stayed low, around 2 percent, in part reflecting globally low price pressures and output still below potential. Fiscal consolidation
   continued in 2015 with the budget aiming for a primary surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP, designed to allow sufficient room for growth-supporting
   capital investment while enabling public debt to gradually decline over time (IMF, November 2015). The country would need to continue
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)



improving tax compliance and broadening the tax base to sustain fiscal consolidation, and ensure medium-term debt sustainability, while allowing
fiscal space for productive spending.
The relevance of objective is high and the relevance of design is substantial. The DPO objectives were derived from the country's priorities, and
were consistent with the Bank's strategic agenda in Albania. The results framework was realistic and comprised reforms, outputs and outcomes
that were achievable, and which set the stage for a better-performing financial sector.
The achievement of the first objective is rated substantial. Toward strengthening the financial sector regulatory and supervisory regime, key
achievements were (i) enhanced inspection and recovery plans of the large systemic banks, (ii) completion of assessment of compliance of
eligible SCAs to enter the deposit insurance scheme ahead of schedule, and finally (iii) ADIA’s board approved on time the budget without BOA’s
ratification, thereby gaining stronger independence to exert its supervision mandate.
The achievement of the second objective is rated substantial. Progress toward mitigating key vulnerabilities of the bank and non-bank financial
sectors included: (i) the reduction of the NPLs ratio, through the write-off of stalled NPLs, (ii) the approval of AFSA’s new organizational
structure and salary scale, thus upgrading its ability to oversee independently the financial sector, and finally (iii) the replenishment of the MTPL
Compensation Fund, enabling the fund to pay pending insurance claims. Despite some implication of other donors in achieving the above
reforms, the contribution of the Bank's operation is deemed to have been critical in getting the results.




a.      Outcome Rating
        Satisfactory



6. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The first series of outcomes supported the surge in inspecting and strengthening large and systemic banks, the promotion of SCAs to enter the
deposit insurance scheme, and the enhancement of ADIA's independence. The second series of outcomes comprised the reduction of the NPLs
ratio through write-offs and the approval of AFSA’s new organizational structure and salary scale (thus upgrading its ability to oversee
independently the financial sector), and the replenishment of the MTPL Compensation Fund (thus enabling the fund to pay pending insurance
claims). These achievements occurred because of Government's commitment to reforms, and adequate local technical
capacity. During implementation, there was sustained coordination of the three branches of the Government while initiating, implementing and
completing challenging reforms supported by the DPO. Moreover, Albania had a three-year Extended Financial Facility (EFF) program with IMF,
as well as support by the World Bank through existing operations that helped Albania to meet its financing needs, while helping to strengthen its
fiscal and debt sustainability and lower public financing risks.
However, the Greek debt crisis remains a major threat to the Albanian economy and its financial sector. Greek-owned banks may come under
further pressure, even when these banks are well capitalized and liquid. The approval of Albania’s EU candidacy status in mid-2014 reconfirms
the strategic orientation and focus of the country, and serves as a policy anchor with regard to key economic, legal and financial
reforms. Moreover, a new financial sector Development Policy Operation is currently under preparation, and aims to address vulnerabilities in
the financial sector, including further reduction of NPLs and the restoration of credit growth across the financial sector, as well as the systemic
risks posed by the investment funds sector. While the Albanian authorities cannot directly influence developments in Greece and the Eurozone,
they can proactively further prepare to mitigate risks and effectively manage potential negative effects to ensure non-reversal of reforms. Overall,
the risk to development outcome is rated substantial, on account of the eventual external risks from Greece and the Euro-zone.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
        Substantial


7. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The DPO design drew from the findings and recommendations of the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) report completed in
     2013. It also benefited from new guidance disseminated from the EU Directives, including from the new focus on macro-prudential
     oversight, global liquidity standards and identification of key attributes of a bank resolution regime, and capital requirements. The operation
     was designed in parallel with two large Bank operations: a Public Finance and Growth DPL, and a Power Recovery project, which all had
     direct and indirect impact on the public finances of the country.
     The World Bank team also coordinated closely with the IMF on financial sector reforms and built on the Bank-Fund collaboration during the
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)



  delivery of TA regarding investment funds. The Bank team consulted with other key donors supporting the financial sector, including
  the European Commission and USAID. Under the European Commission funding, the European Central Bank (ECB) provided TA to the
  BOA to strengthen banking sector supervision, while the USAID provided technical assistance to BOA, ADIA, and the AFSA. Finally, the
  authorities consulted with the banking industry on issues related to NPL resolution, reforms in insurance regulation, supervision and
  strengthened powers and tools of the AFSA.
  At appraisal, the Bank team conducted a careful analysis of the local and external risks that could impact negatively the outcomes expected
  from the operation. Key internal risks identified in the PAD (p.31-32) included (i) insufficient political consensus to pass the legal and
  regulatory changes featured in the prior actions, (ii) a weak economy and further deterioration in the domestic fiscal outlook, (iii) a crunch in
  the context of deleveraging pressures from parent banks on the 90 percent foreign-owned banking sector, and (iv) further deterioration in the
  portfolio asset quality. External risks could arise from (i) a slower than projected pace of recovery in the Euro area, and (ii) a possible exit
  from unconventional monetary policy in the United States. Substantive mitigating measures were identified in each case. For instance, to
  create a national consensus toward reforming the financial sector, there were broad consultations with the relevant ministries and regulators,
  and an inter-ministerial committee was formed to coordinate implementation.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
  The Bank worked effectively with the Ministry of Finance as the coordinator of activities on the Borrower’s side, and maintained very close
  cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the BOA, ADIA and AFSA, which were key counterparts in the financial sector reform program. The
  Bank assisted the authorities through a number of challenging policy reforms with persistence and by delivering high-level support.
  Moreover, the task team monitored the timely adoption and effective implementation of the agreed policy actions. They also validated the
  Borrower’s monitoring and evaluation findings on the progress and results of policy implementation. Further, the task team regularly
  consulted and coordinated with the IMF in carrying out its supervision work.
  During DPL implementation, the Bank team contributed in the mitigation of some of the multiple risks identified at appraisal. For instance, to
  address the risk of large external current account deficit and the funding pressures that could lead to a depreciation of the Lek, which would
  threaten the solvency of banks due to the presence of a large proportion of un-hedged borrowers, the FIRST Initiative technical assistance
  provided support to public debt management and the BOA’s strengthening of its systemic liquidity and market operation mechanisms, and
  TA was provided to AFSA regarding insurance, private pensions, and investment funds.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


8. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government showed strong commitment to the process of consultation with stakeholders on important legislative amendments and
   regulatory reforms. In implementing agreed measures, the professionalism, dedication of the Government proved to be the determining
   factor. The Government showed the path to establishing institutional frameworks to strengthen regulation and supervision of the banking
   sector and its safety net; expedite resolution of NPLs; and strengthen regulation and supervision of NBFIs.
   The viability of the Financial Sector Modernization DPL program could have been undermined if there had been insufficient political
   consensus to pass in Parliament the five underlying legislative pieces featured in the prior actions. That risk was partially mitigated by
   broad and inclusive consultations with the relevant Ministries and regulators. Moreover, an ad hoc inter-Ministerial Committee was formed
   to coordinate the implementation of prior actions, and the Governement set up a Financial Stability Advisory Group.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)



b. Implementing Agency Performance
   Key counterparts in the implementation of the financial sector reform agenda were the Ministry of Justice, the BOA, the AFSA, and the ADIA.
   They all worked under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, and their cooperation was very strong, with often difficult discussions as
   regards to specific reform measures. The authorities completed all of the financial sector DPL prior actions, readily shared information with
   the Bank team, and continued to implement reforms in a very difficult regional and domestic environment.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Satisfactory



9. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   There were seven indicators to monitor the outcomes, for which targets were established for each indicator to capture the results achieved.
   The baselines and outcome indicators were objectively formed, demonstrating both the regulator’s and financial sector’s performance.
   Having said that, DPL Pillar II was composed of five prior actions and one results indicator - the reduction of NPLs. The headline NPL figure
   represents a reliable proxy to improve the authorizing environment necessary to support the reduction of NPLs. Yet, the reduction of NPLs is
   per se outside the direct control of the authorities and could be undermined by other factors, including an economic slowdown and weak
   credit growth. It is thus welcomed that the team added an indicator on the write-off claims in order to gauge the direct impact of the reforms
   supported with this operation.




b. M&E Implementation
   The M&E and implementation arrangements were continuous throughout the preparation phase and contributed to the implementation of
   key reforms and the achievement of development objectives.




c. M&E Utilization
   The systematic efforts by the authorities to define a mix of quantitative and qualitative indicators, which were intended to facilitate the
   monitoring of the operation, supported measures to improve financial sector performance and to reform/ enhance the regulation and
   supervision of the bank and non-bank financial sectors.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


10. Other Issues

a. Environmental and Social Effects
   The completed operation did not have significant effects on environment, natural resources and forestry. The focus of policy measures was
   on legal, regulatory, and supervisory reforms to strengthen and further develop the financial sector, with no impact on the environment.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)



b. Fiduciary Compliance
The ICR did not raise any fiduciary issues related to the disbursement of the operation's resources. Beyond asking the Government to ensure
that upon deposit of an amount of the credit into the foreign exchange account, an equivalent amount is accounted for the Government's budget
management system and reflected in the budget, no additional fiduciary arrangements were required.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   NA




d. Other
       ---




11. Ratings
                                                                                                                  Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                  Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                          ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                       Substantial                           ---
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                          ---
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                          ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                           ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


12. Lessons

IEG agrees with the following three lessons identified by the ICR and rephrased below:
(i) It is important for the Bank to maintain a continuous engagement with its clients even when the lending portfolio is small or inexistent. As
the Bank continued to support knowledge sharing activities (the 2013 FSAP, technical assistance with the bank of Albania), it was able to react
quickly to the pressing needs in the financial sector during the preparation phase of this operation, and the team succeeded to build sufficient
ownership of the many policy and regulatory changes. Continuous engagement put the Bank in a position to adapt and respond raipidly to the
client's needs and economic realities.
(ii) Having key stakeholders on board facilitates the DPO implementation. This points to the need to carefully identify and recognize in advance
the ability of groups of stakeholders to lobby with authorities (government and parliament) and factor their interests in the scope of the reform
agenda. This allows the authorities and the WB to discuss freely the issues affecting the interest groups and, if no common understanding is
reached with them, raise adequate safeguards and understanding with the decision makers to push the reform agenda forward. Alignment of
key policy makers and a high level commitment to the reform agenda by all stakeholders are key to the completion of relatively ambitious prior
actions, and should be considered carefully at the design phase.
(iii) Regular coordination with other donors and partners positively impacts the expected outcomes. The Bank's consultation with other
international agencies (IMF, USAID, and EU) proved essential to the performance of the operation, given the extensive technical assistance that
needed to be aligned with the country’s and sector’s priorities. In particular, this operation benefited extensively from IMF's support to
knowledge sharing activities and the three-year EFF program. This program has ensured the adequacy of the macroeconomic framework by
helping Albania to meet its external financing needs, while providing the necessary support to strengthen fiscal and debt sustainability.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AL Financial Sector DPL(P146280)




13. Assessment Recommended?

No


14. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR had strengths and weaknesses. On the positive side, the ICR was comprehensive and concise and was results-oriented. It focused on
analyzing the efficacy of prior actions and the achievements toward outputs and outcomes, on identifying how risks were mitigated, and how a
follow-on operation would build on achieved progress. On the weaker side, the analysis of the above could have been strengthened
further, especially as regards to the link between achieved outcomes and the evolution of the fiscal stance of the country, as this was a budget
support operation. Furthermore, evidence and information to underpin performance of the Bank, the Borrower, and the M&E system were
insufficient.
 Lessons learned from this operation were adequate and based on evidence and analysis of the operation's experience, but could have
been packaged better.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
