OFICIAL ~~~q
DOCUMENTS
REPUBLIKA E SHQIPERIS
Dr. Jim Yong Kim
President
The World Bank
1818H Street, N.W. Washington D.C., 20433
20 March 2014
REF: Letter of Development Policy
Albania: Financial Sector Modernization Development Policy Loan
Dear Dr. Kim:
The Government of Albania appreciates the long-standing partnership and cooperation with
the World Bank on a range of development issues; in particular we remain cognizant of the
crucial development financing and implementation support that the World Bank has provided
to Albania's reform program and transition over the last two decades.
Context: Albanian financial sector in the aftermath of the global and Eurozone crises
Albania had a high growth of around 6% in the last two decades up to the onset of the 2008
global crises and it weathered the crisis relatively well. The growth shock was less severe
than elsewhere in Europe. Albania avoided an economic recession thanks in part to monetary
accommodation and a moderate fiscal stimulus. Inflation remained low and stable. The
spillover risk from the presence of Greek and other peripheral euro country banks was
contained and relative stability in the financial system was maintained.
Although the Albanian financial system withstood the shocks of2008 global crisis relatively
well, it continues to operate in highly uncertain macroeconomic environment, which triggers
increased vulnerabilities in the system. Prior to the global financial crisis, credit growth in
Albania was excessive, but it has moved into a downturn and repair stage, as suggested by
the slowdown in credit and moderation in house prices, the sharp increase in non-performing
loans and the reduction in banks profitability margins. While the Bank of Albania (BoA) has
been vigilant in mitigating the risks -through instituting capital adequacy and solvency ratios
that are above international norms, and putting in place stringent provisioning rules-- the
financial sector remains vulnerable to several risks. Stress tests show that some banks still
remain vulnerable to shocks. The decline in profitability, growing non-performing loans
(NPLs), substantial level of euroization, continued deleveraging of foreign bank subsidiaries
from Austria, Greece, Italy and Turkey and significant investments in government bonds in
the absence of active secondary market are the main challenges that banking system faces.
Given strong trade and financial links with euro area, the financial system and real sector in
general are increasingly vulnerable to external shocks as well.


﻿Albania's high public debt poses additional significant challenges for the financial sector's
sustainability. Albania's public debt has increased from about 55 percent of GDP in 2008 to
about 70.5 percent in 2013 emanating largely from poor tax revenue performance, slower
economic growth and continued infrastructure spending, resulting in a large stock of unpaid
arrears. Large holdings of government securities present potential systemic risks for banks,
making them vulnerable to changes in interest rates and the value of debt securities. At the same
time, the government depends on regular rollover of debt by banks. The risk is heightened by the
lack of a well-functioning secondary market and the emergence of investment funds, which face
significant liquidity risk and challenges regarding asset valuation.
Government's Program
Our main economic objectives over the medium term are to restore robust and sustainable
growth that would improve the living standards of our citizens; reduce the macroeconomic risks
associated with the rising public debt; and mitigate the financial sector risks so credit can flow
again. The National Strategy for Development and Integration 2014-2020 ( NSDI), to be
finalized within this year, will be the basis for the design of medium-term budget programming
and the orientation of donor funding, especially from the World Bank, the IMF, and the
European Union's (EU) Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA). The strategy focuses on
achieving the following goals: (i) growth through fiscal stability and increased competitiveness;
(ii) sustainable growth through efficient use of resources; and (iii) investing in people. Improving
good governance and the rule of law forms its foundation.
We are fully committed to go through several deep reforms during the medium term 2014 - 2017
and achieve the following goals:
- We are committed to putting our public finances on a sustainable path and lowering
public debt over the medium-term. We have begun the process of fiscal consolidation
with 2014 budget, with the goal to achieve a reduction in public debt in 2015. By 2016,
we aim to bring public debt down to 69 percent of GDP. We remain cautious about the
uncertainties ahead, particularly the risks related with the economic developments in the
Eurozone, and we stand ready to make the adjustments necessary to ensure that fiscal
consolidation is preserved. We will work closely with our international partners,
including the World Bank and the IMF to strengthen medium-term fiscal framework and
public financial management.
-  We are committed to taking a proactive role in reforming the business climate to support
robust and sustainable growth. In addition to resolving the problem of arrears, which is
critical for reducing the elevated level of NPL and consequently restoring the health of
both financial and real private sector, we plan to ensure that business complaints are
addressed. Strengthening the revenue administration; fighting the informal economy to
reduce the competitiveness distortions; reducing redundant regulatory and procedural
hurdles faced by the business community are some of the key measures in this regard.
- Albania's long-term goal is to join the European Union. As outlined in the European
Commission's 2013 Progress Report for Albania, we have adopted key judicial, public
administration and parliamentary reform measures that would allow us to make progress
toward EU accession. We have also made strides in the fight against corruption and
2


﻿organized crime. We intend to further strengthen the independence and efficiency of the
justice system, the fight against corruption and organized crime, and reforms in public
administration.
- Another main goal we are committed to achieve, with the highly appreciated assistance
of World Bank, is maintaining a stable financial system, and improving the supervisory
framework. We shall take decisive actions to ensure that the level of NPLs on banks
enters a declining path and credit in the economy starts to flow. In this regard, in addition
of clearing all the government's arrears to the private sector, we shall remove legal
ambiguities on tax treatment of NPLs write-offs. We will also make regulatory changes
to improve credit underwriting standards and NPL recovery and resolution for large
borrowers. We will promptly make the necessary legal amendments to better align the
legislation and operations of Albanian Deposits Insurance Agency (ADIA) with the Core
Principles for Effective Deposit Insurance Systems, and particularly to ensure full
operational independence of ADIA through passage of the ADIA law amendments. We
will improve the regulatory framework on insurance companies and investment funds, to
deal with rising risks on their activity through passage of the four laws supporting the
AFSA reforms, composed of amendments to the AFSA Law, the Civil Servants Law, the
Law on Independent Institutions and the Insurance Bill. The Bank of Albania (BoA), as
the regulator of the banking sector, will remain vigilant to identify material weaknesses in
the sector and when necessary, require banks to provide sufficient levels of capital and
liquid assets as well as introduce substantial improvements in governance and credit risk
management. BoA is also advancing toward risk-based supervision, by adopting the best
practices in this regard.
Reforms Supported by the Financial Sector Development Policy Loan
The Financial Sector Modernization Development Policy Loan (FSM-DPL) from the World
Bank supports our efforts to: (i) expedite the resolution of Non-Performing Loans (ii)
strengthening the financial sector supervisory framework and financial safety net; (iii)
strengthening the Nonbank Financial Institution (NBFI) sector.
(i) Expediting the resolution ofNon-Performing Loans
The level ofNPLs in the banking system has increased significantly in the aftermath of the
financial crisis. Although the financial sector remained largely stable during the global crises,
the highly elevated level of NPLs introduces significant risks to the stability of the sector as well
as to its effective and efficient operation. NPLs have increased from 3.4 percent at end-2007 to
more than 24 percent in September 2013. The rapid increase of NPLs likely involves a
combination of factors, including the economic slowdown, government payment arrears and
weak credit underwriting standards during the credit boom before the financial crisis. Also, loss
loans are not being cleared from banks' books due to prolonged major difficulties in the
execution of collateral for loans in default (e.g., loans in excecution at end-2013 represent
around 17 percent of all loans, or more than 2/3 of banks' total NPLs). Thus, accelerating
collateral execution process represents a very critical issue, exascerbated by the lack of clarity in
the tax treatment of loan write-offs.
3


﻿Credit to the real economy has stalled. Comparatively strict provisioning requirements and a
comfortable capital adequacy ratio have helped to contain the NPLs' negative shocks to the
system thus far. However, the large increase in NPLs and deterioration in the economic outlook
have caused banks to take a much more conservative approach to lending and contributed to a
sharp slowdown in credit growth in the last four years. Annual credit growth turned negative in
September 2013 for the first time in the last decade, declining by 3 percent (year-on-year).
Although the accumulation of domestic deposits in the banking system has been steady during
the last years, the banks continue to pose tight credit supply conditions toward the domestic real
sector. Furthermore, the banks have significantly increased investing of domestic savings in
foreign assets.
We recognize that as credit risk continues to be a major risk in the financial sector, the rising
trend ofNPLs in the banking system should be tackled decisively. We have already taken some
actions in this regard and, closely collaborating with the World Bank, we remain committed to
undertake other measures that will bring down the level of NPLs, reduce credit risk, and help to
unleash the crediting potential of the financial sector. In this regard, the BoA enhanced in
February 2014 its regulatory framework to strengthen credit standards and provide more
guidance on NPL management. The BoA and the MoF, in conjunction with the Ministry of
Justice and other related agencies and Albanian Banking Association have submitted to
Parliament the legal amendment of the Tax Law to remove legal and technical issues that impede
the loan write-offs from banks' balance sheets. In addition, we will prepare (with IFC assistance)
changes in the Civil Code and other relevant laws in order to introduce improvements in
insolvency requirements. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice signed in early
March 2014 a new Joint Instruction for private bailiffs to set the payment to bailiffs in line with a
success rate (rather than requiring full up-front payment as at present), and aim to further restrict
judicial discretion in postponing borrowers' payments or determining priority in collateral
claims. Of course, arrears clearance will also help NPL reduction.
More specifically the Government and Bank of Albania are implementing the following key
measures with the support of the FSM-DPL:
-  Removing ambiguities on tax treatment of NPL write-offs, by introducing legal changes
and ensuring a better understanding and appropriate execution by tax inspectors. The
respective amendments of tax law No. 8438 will be shortly submitted for approval to
Parliament. Such legal changes, will allow BoA to swiftly introduce changes in the
regulatory supervisory framework addressing the obligatory write-off of stale dated NPL
following a fixed period of time classified in the "loss" category.
-  BoA has issued new guidelines related with loans restructuring for businesses and
individuals, as well as for real estate appraisals. These will serve as best practice to banks
in this regard.
-  With continuing assistance of the World Bank (FinSAC), the BoA is designing a
comprehensive NPL resolution platform. The main focus of this initiative is to develop
the appropriate tools to facilitate, on one hand, the effective enforcement of creditors'
rights and on the other hand, to return the operationally viable borrowers to sustainable
debt servicing capabilities and enhance new borrowing via appropriate financial and
corporate restructuring activities. Therefore, the addressing of impaired loans that could
return to sustainable performance status through restructuring actions is expected to
4


﻿further improve the NPL ratio.
-  Regulatory changes will continue also to focus on improving credit underwriting
standards and NPL recovery and resolution for large borrowers.
o  Supervisory Council of BoA approved by decision No. 22, dated 27.02.2014
some amendments to the regulation on "Credit Risk Administration" that provides
for some obligatory requirements to banks related with the write-off process.
According to these amendments banks are obliged to write-off the nonperforming
loans not later than 3 (three) years after they have been classified in the "loss
category".
o  Supervisory Council of BoA approved by decision No. 10, dated 26.02.2014 the
new regulation "On the risk management from large exposures of banks" which is
in line with the European Union's Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV).
This regulation provides for some more qualitative requirements to banks related
with the Steering Council responsibilities. In particular, it addresses the decision
making process in cases of creation and restructuring of exposures to large
borrowers as well as some requirements dealing with i) risk analysis
(underwriting practices) of exposures to large borrowers; ii) development of large
borrowers' recovery and resolution plans and the frequency of respective
revisions; iii) coordination and participation of banks in collective recovery and
resolution plans with other banks in case of exposures to the same large borrower
(or group of connected borrowers).
-  These measures, along with a broader cooperation with the World Bank in this regard, are
expected to contribute to the lowering of the NPL ratio below 20%, by the end-of March
2015.
(ii) Strengthening the financial sector supervisory framework and financial safety net
While a number of macro prudential policies were put in place since 2007, BoA remains
committed to strengthen further its macro-prudential toolkit. BoA has adopted tighter approach
in the earlier stage by converting foreign bank branches into subsidiaries and by tightening
liquidity regulations. In 2013, in order to stimulate a credit growth, BoA has eased the liquidity
requirements and reduced capital coverage for those banks that expand annual credit growth
within a range of 4 to 10 percent, as well as introduced disincentives for banks to hold funds
overseas. As the impact of these measures is likely to be limited given the persisting perception
of high credit risk by banks, BoA remains vigilant to continually weigh the potential
effectiveness of such measures in the near term with the longer term potential costs.
The BoA will continue to strengthen its macro-prudential framework. In this regard, it will gather
additional information on the interlinkages between the banking sector and the non-bank
financial institutions, and develop its macro-prudential toolkit to address systemic risk issues by
end 2014, including its Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA) framework. BoA, along with
other authorities, will ensure that the meetings of the Financial Stability Advisory Group (FSAG)
take place on a quarterly basis as required and focus on financial stability and systemic risk
management. We will also introduce monthly meetings at a technical level starting from March
2014. All the authorities will cooperate under the FSAG guidance, to strengthen FSAG legal
5


﻿support for prevention and management of a systemic financial crisis. We will also take actions
in order to ensure that risks from the lack of a secondary public debt market are effectively
mitigated.
BoA willfurther improve its stress-testing toolkit. It will aim at developing sound technical skills
in banks over time in order to improve the quality of bottom-up solvency stress-tests. In this
regard, BoA will streamline its procedures by September 2014 to ensure that its macro-model
and other satellite models are effectively used to determine macroeconomic scenarios and
estimate their impact for stress-testing purposes.
Albania's deposit insurance system provides coverage for deposits of natural persons up to 2.5
million lek (approximately US$25,000), which covers 95 percent of depositors and about 58
percent of all system deposits. Albanian Deposit Insurance Agency (ADIA) is largely compliant
with 14 of the 18 Core Principles for Effective Deposit Insurance Systems and has made
progress in improving its operations and building its organizational structure. However, the
absence of coverage for small enterprises is a material weakness in the safety net for depositors.
We will equip ADIA with autonomy in its operations in accordance with Core Principle 5. At the
same time, ADIA will enhance information sharing arrangements with BoA and will strive to
achieve this also with relevant regional deposit insurance agencies and will seek greater latitude
for its investments so as to be better able to diversify its funding. We will also take actions to
admit eligible Saving and Credit Associations (SCAs) into the deposit insurance system by end-
2015
More specifically the Government, BoA and ADIA are implementing the following key
measures with the support of the FSM-DPL:
-  The BoA will advance toward risk-based supervision, by adopting a Risk-based
Supervision Framework which already includes a new Risk Based Supervisory Manual
and a new Supervisory Operational Policy, to be both implemented in banks' on-site
inspections during 2014. The above two documents were approved by BoA Supervisory
Council and by the First Deputy Governor, respectively on 26.03.2014 decision No. 9
and date 27.03.2014, decision No. 590. By end-March 2015, inspections of 5 banks
would have been conducted in accordance with this new Risk-based Supervision
Framework.
-  The BoA issued a mandatory Guideline on Recovery Plans, on 26 February 2014,
requiring systemic banks to adopt recovery plans and demonstrate their ability to operate
during period of stress. By end-March 2015, banks of systemic importance will have
submitted enhanced Recovery Plans to BoA, in line with the this Guideline.
-  The BoA, with decisions no.12 and 13 of its Supervisory Council meeting of February
26, 2014 has adopted collateral standards for all its monetary operations (including
repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements) and has expanded collateral eligibility to
all negotiable securities issued by the government of Albania.
-  The Memorandum of Understanding covering operations of the inter-agency Financial
Sector Advisory Group (FSAG) has been amended in the FSAG meeting of March 10,
2014 to: (i) require technical-level meetings every month (in addition to the existing
three-monthly high-level meetings); and (ii) exclude financial development from the
mandate of the FSAG
6


﻿- We will amend the Law "On deposit insurance" to better align the legislation and
operations of Albanian Deposits Insurance Agency (ADIA) with the Core Principles for
Effective Deposit Insurance Systems. Such amendments will be approved soon by
Parliament, which will allow the ADIA to complete by end-March 2015 its assessment of
eligible Saving and Credit Associations (SCAs) in line its legal and technical
requirements. This will ensure that compliant SCAs enter the deposit insurance scheme
by end-2015. Furthermore, by end-December 2014, the ADIA independence will have
enhanced by having the authority to approve its own budget, without BoA ratification.
(iii) Strengthening the Nonbank Financial Institution (NBFI) sector
The NBFI sector still remains a small part offinancial system (6 percent offinancial system
assets), however measures should be taken in order to mitigate emerging risks. As of mid-2013,
NBFI sector included II insurance companies, two investment funds, 126 savings and credit
associations in two unions, two independent SCAs, 3 pension funds, and 21 other non-bank (that
is, non-deposit-taking) financial institutions.
We will also strengthen the regulatoryframeworkfor the non-bank financial sector. We have
moved forward with amendments to the law governing the operations of the Albanian Financial
Supervisory Authority (AFSA) in order to strengthen its operational and financial independence,
and amend the insurance law in line with recommendations from the recent FSAP. We will also
revise by end-June 2014 the regulatory framework for investment funds in Albania to introduce
time-bound liquidity and capital requirements (in line with EU directives) and require the
calculation of net asset value to be done on a mark to market basis. We have requested technical
assistance to determine how to set the market value of these assets, given the lack of a secondary
market, and implementation would be based on the outcome of the technical assistance. We will
also strengthen requirements for funds' disclosure and consumer protection to align with the
FSAP recommendations.
More specifically the Government, BoA and AFSA are implementing the following key
measures with the support of the FSM-DPL:
-  The AFSA will improve the regulatory framework on insurance companies and
investment funds, to deal with rising risks on their activity by end-June 2014. In
particular, the regulatory frame work for investment funds on asset valuation, liquidity
requirement, and capital adequacy requirement will be enhanced.
-  To ensure the financial and operational independence of the AFSA, the Council of
Ministers will submits to Parliament by end-March 2014: a new Insurance Law, and
amendments to AFSA Law, Law on Salaries of Independent Institutions, and the Civil
Servant Law. By end- March 2015, AFSA independence will have enhanced as measured
by the adoption of its own organizational structure, allowing it to regulate and supervise
more effectively the insurance sector
-  The AFSA will adopt by end-March 2014 market stabilization measures to issue: (i) a
regulation on minimum MTPL reserving standards; and (ii) a time-bound plan to restore
funding of the Compensation Fund.
7


﻿Finally, the Government of Albania notes that a number of proposed actions entail submission of
draft laws and amendments to Parliament for enactment. The Government of Albania provides
its utmost high assurances to the World Bank that it will use its best efforts to secure timely
enactment of these laws and amendments in question.
Shklqim Cani                                         Ardian Full i
Minister of Finance                                    GovernooBank of Albania
8


