g               e                       RESTRICTED
Report No.   PTR-87a
Th1 repot i for offinc use ony by the Bank Group mid _*cflcfy authorized arganizations
or persons.  my not be pubshed, quoted or cied without Bank Group authodition. The
Bank Group does not accept rponsibilty for the accuay or ompltenes of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMET ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
INDONESIA
June 2, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit       -  Rupiah (Rp)
Us$1                =  Hp 378
Rp 1               =  USOO.26
Rp 1 million        =  US$2 ,646
Fiscal Year:  April 1 - March 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                       British/US
1 millimeter (mm)         =  0.04 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)         =  0.39 inch (in)
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)        =  35.29 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kilometer (km)       2  =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =  0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)               =  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
= 0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms:
MPW                - Ministry of Public Works and Power
PNKA               -  Indonesia State Railways
TCAS              -  Transport Coordination Advisory Services
UNDP               - United Nations Development Programme
GDP                - Gross Domestic Product
ADT                - Average Daily Traffic



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS    ..............................  i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION            ...................................    1
II.    BACKGROUND    ....................................    1
A. Economic Setting    .................................    1
B. Transportation   ...................................    2
C. Transport Policy and Coordination    .......................    5
Il.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR  .............................                                          6
A. The Highway Network    ..............................   6
B. Highway Transport    ................................   7
C. Highway Administration    .............................   7
D. Highway Financing    ................................   8
E. Highway Planning and Engineering    .......................    8
F. Highway Construction   ...............................    9
G. Highway Maintenance   ...............................  10
IV.    THE PROJECT    ....................................  10
A.   Description   .....................................    10
B. Construction and Supervision of the Sawatambang-
Muarabungo National Highway    ........................  11
C. Detailed Engineering of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-
Lubuklinggau National Highway    .......................  11
D. Regional Study and Subsequent Detailed Engineering of
Feeder Roads for the Area of the Sawatambang-
Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau National Highway   ................  12
E. Detailed Engineering of the Padang-Medan National
Highway and Related Feeder Roads  . ....................  12
F. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component    ..............  12
G. Project Financing and Execution    . .........1......4....                       .  14
H. Disbursements   ...................................  15
This report was written by Messrs. J.R. Howard (Engineer), E. Lim (Economist), and W.
Akhurst (Consultant), assisted by Messrs. W. Hughes and R. Rafloski (Economists). It was
edited by Mrs. P. Valad.



Page No.
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION   .............................  16
A.    General  .......................................                 16
B. Construction of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo National Highway  ...... 16
C. Regional Study of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-
Lubuklinggau National Highway and Detailed Engineering
of the Padang-Medan National Highway .18
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS  ................................ 18
TABLES
1. The Public Highway System
2. The Public Highway System - Type of Surface
3. The Public Highway System - Design Load-Carrying Capacity
4. Geometric Design Standards
5. Vehicles Registered, 1961-1969
6. Motor Vehicle Registration - Geographic Distribution, 1969
7. Estimated Vehicle Fleet in Use
8. Age Distribution of Vehicles in Central Java, January 1969
9. Budget Summary of Directorate-General of Highways
10. Estimated Costs and Benefits
11. Rates of Return for Construction of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo
National Highway
ANNEXES
A. Study of Economic Development Potentials in the Influence Area
of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau National Highway.
Summary Terms of Reference.
B. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
C. Agricultural Potential of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo National
Highway
D. Estimated Benefits of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo National
Highway
CHART
Organization of the Central and Provincial Works Organizations in
Relation to Highway Administration
MAPS
Indonesia Second Highway Project



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         This report appraises a project in Indonesia for: construction of a 200 km
section of a national highway in Sumatra; detailed engineering of a further section of
the same highway; a regional study of the area served by this highway and subsequent
detailed engineering of related feeder roads; and detailed engineering of about 700 km
of an adjacent national highway and some 500 km of related feeder roads. This would
be the second credit for the transport sector of Indonesia, the first having been in 1969
for highway rehabilitation and maintenance.
ii.        The economy of Indonesia has virtually recovered from the past decade of
stagnation and rapid inflation. The recent expansion of economic activities has considerably
strained an infrastructure already suffering from a long period of lack of capital for
improvements and from inadequate maintenance. Infrastructure rehabilitation is therefore
receiving highest priority in the current Government investment program, with emphasis
on the transport sector.
iii.       Road and marine transport are the major transport modes in Indonesia.
Technical and financial assistance from external sources, including the Association, is now
meeting the immediate needs for rehabilitation and improved maintenance of the highway
system. A program has been developed by the Government for rehabilitating and replacing
part of the inter-island fleet; a method of financing the program is currently under
consideration by the Association. It is now necessary to turn to the long-term requirements
of major reconstruction of roads which have degenerated into barely negotiable tracks,
and construction of feeder roads to serve major highways. These roads are particularly
important in the underpopulated islands where development is heavily dependent on reliable
transport.
iv.        Together with other studies being undertaken by the Government, the
proposed project will establish the economic and technical basis for reconstruction and
improvement of a major trunk road linking Medan at the northern end of Sumatra with
Telukbetung at the southern end, and for construction of related feeder roads. The
proposed project will include construction of a 200 km section of this central artery,
which was given highest priority by the United Nations Development Programme-financed
Highway Services advising the Government on short and long-term investment priorities.
In addition, the proposed credit will finance a regional study to identify development
potentials and assess infrastructure requirements of an underdeveloped area served by the
trunk road, including feeder roads. Total project costs will be about US$49 million.
Assuming that construction will be carried out by foreign contractors and the engineering



- 11 -
services by foreign consultants, the foreign exchange component of the project will be
US$34 million, and is the amount of the proposed credit. Including only immediately
identifiable development benefits, the rate of return on the proposed road construction
will be 19%.
v.         The Directorate-General of Highwaiys, a branch of the Ministry of Public Works
and Power, will execute the project. Detailed cngineering of the section to be constructed
is being carried out by consultants, who will also be responsible for supervision. The
construction work will be carried out under three contracts, eachl of a size attractive to
foreign firms. The domestic contracting industry is in its infancy and will only be likely
to participate in project execution in a minor way. Procurement will be in accordance
with the Guidelines of the Association. The regional study and detailed engineering will
be carried out by consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
vi.        The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$34
million to the Government of Indonesia on the usual terms.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has asked the Association for a credit to help
finance a project in Sumatra comprising:  construction, including supervision of about
200 km of a national highway; detailed engineering of a further section, about 300 km
long, of the same national highway; a regional study of the area served by this national
highway and subsequent detailed engineering of about 500 km of related feeder roads;
and detailed engineering of about 700 km of another national highway, with some 500
km of its related feeder roads.
1.02      This will be the second highway project in Indonesia financed by the
Association.  It arises from  the "1968-70 Highway Services" (the Highway Services),
financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), for which the Bank
is the Executing Agency. The objectives of the Highway Services were to determine
investment priorities for highways and to assist in planning and establishing an efficient
highway organization. The First Highway Project Credit Agreement (Credit 154-IND,
US$28 million) was signed in June 1969, and includes highway maintenance, rehabilitation
of some 3,000 km of highway, and implementation of major organizational changes, all
identified as high priority by the Highway Services. The proposed Second Highway Project
covers development of a high priority highway identified by the Highway Services. The
First Highway Project is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank Group has not made loans
or credits for other transport modes.
1.03      This report was written by Messrs. J. R. Howard (Engineer), E. Lim
(Economist), and W. Akhurst (Consultant), assisted by Messrs. W. Hughes and R. Rafloski
(Economists); they appraised the project in January/February 1971. The report was edited
by Mrs. P. Valad.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01       Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 3,000 islands stretching 5,000 km
along the equator. The land area, about 1.9 million km2, is about four times that of
France. Four major islands (Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan, and Sulawesi) account for about
70%/o of the land area. The population in 1970 was about 121 million; since 1965, the
annual growth rate has been 2.5% (Table 1). Population pressure is intense in Java where
almost 80 million people live in an area only 132,000 kin2, but vast areas of other islands
are underpopulated. The Government is encouraging migration from Java and Bali to
other islands, but with only limited success. Urbanization is accelerating and the population
in the capital, Djakarta, now approaches 5 million.



2.02       Indonesia is among the poor countries in the world, with current per capita
income estimated at about US$75. The economic structure remained virtually unchanged
in the sixties and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) barely grew between 1960 and 1969.
Agriculture continued to account for about half of GDP and manufacturing industries
for only one-tenth. However, considerable resources of oil, minerals, forestry, and cultivable
land are present and long-term development prospects are good.
2.03       The economy has virtually recovered from the past decade of stagnation and
rapid inflation.  During 1969 and 1970, output and investment substantially increased
in all major sectors.  The return to stability has established confidence in Government
economic policies and provided an environment conducive to economic growth. Trhe
Government's commitment to development through free market policies and free access
to foreign capital also has stimulated a high inflow of both public and private forcign
capital.
2.04       However, the accelerated public development effort has put additional strains
on an already inadequate public administration. Although foreign technical assistance is
available in most areas of the Government's development program, a major effort is required
to increase public administrative capacity. In particular, the present levels of compensation
for nearly all grades of Government personnel are much too low to command efficient
performance. This problem cannot be solved easily or quickly; consequently, administrative
capacity is likely to remain a serious obstacle to almost all aspects of the development
effort.
2.05       The recent expansion of economic activities has also strained the infrastructure,
which has been suffering from inadequate maintenance. Rehabilitation and improved
maintenance of infrastructure continue to rate high priority in present Government policies;
public investments will concentrate mainly on infrastructure facilities which support and
stimulate growth of the private sector. Emphasis is being placed on the transport sector,
where run-down facilities, high costs, and inefficient operations are major obstacles to
the economy's development. Construction of new transport facilities, particularly roads.
is necessary to provide access to producing areas presently isolated from their potential
markets, and to underdeveloped interiors of the larger islands. The current Five-Year
Development Plan (1969-73) specified a total investment target of Rp 200 billion (US$530
million) in the transport sector, or about 19% of total public investment.
B.   Transportation
(a)   General
2.06       Marine transport serves as the major trunk system in Indonesia, while roads
and railways link the interiors of islands with their ports, and connect surplus and deficit
areas within islands. Few natural harbors exist, but there are an adequate number of
ports which are fed by the main road and rail arteries of each island. Inter-island transport



involves mainly exchanging consumer goods and construction materials with export
products; roads and marine transport carry most internal freight traffic. Almost all internal
passenger traffic is carried by roads and railways. Air transport volume is still very small,
but has increased rapidly in the last few years. As in most other sectors in Indonesia,
very little transport data exist. No reliable data on distribution of traffic by modes,
general transport costs, or tariffs are available.
2.07       After a long period of neglect, the transport system  requires extensive
rehabilitation and improvements in maintenance and operations.  Funds have been
inadequate and managerial capacity has been deficient, resulting in mismanagement of
maintenance funds, haphazard investment planning, and highly inefficient operations.
(b)  Highways
2.08       The highway network consists of about 82,000 km of roads of all standards,
with about 15,000 km paved (Table 2). Details of the highway sector are given in Chapter
111.
(c)   Railways
2.09       The Indonesian State Railways (PNKA) comprise about 7,900 km of track,
of which 7,300 km are 1.067 meter gauge. Six separate systems exist on Java, Madura,
and Sumatra. The road bed, track, and bridges are in such poor condition that speeds
and loads are severely restricted.
2.10       PNKA operates about 870 steam locomotives, and 280 diesel locomotives.
The utilization factor of the fleet is low because of its age and operational inefficiencies.
Load factors and track utilization also are extremely low.
2.11       Tariffs charged by PNKA  were increased recently, but still do not cover
working expenses. More than 50%0 of PNKA's total recorded expenditures involved staff
costs. The staff is larger than necessary for efficiency, and productivity is extremely
low. However, PNKA is required to retain its staff and must rely on attrition to reduce
the number.
2.12       The future role of the railways is one of the key issues of transport policy.
Rail transport will likely be limited due to the lack of long-haul or high volume bulk
shipments and the lower cost of road transport for short distances. Consultants from
the Federal Republic of Germany (DECONSULT) are undertaking a study of railway traffic
potential, costs and tariffs, improvements in management operations, and future investment
requirements. This study has identified several modest projects (mainly for rehabilitating
railway stock and track), but further analysis is required of the benefits of railway
investment compared with those in competing modes.



-4-
(d)  Ports and Shipping
2.13       Indonesia has about 300 ports, but only 20 have facilities to serve ships over
500 tons at quayside. The major ports for dry cargo are Tandjung Priok and Surabaja
on Java and Belawan on North Sumatra, each having approximately 2,000 ship calls per
year by powered vessels. The major port for petroleum products is Palembang on Sumatra,
where about 3,200 ships (of which 1,900 are tankers) call annually. The capacities of
the ports are generally adequate to handle existing traffic, but infrastructure and service
facilities need rehabilitation. Increased efficiencies in port operations are also required.
2.14       Siltation is reducing the depth of most entrance channels and harbor basins,
and the dredging backlog is about 15 million m3. If the Indonesian dredging fleet is
to cope with present demands for channel and basin maintenance, its existing dredges
must be repaired and operations improved. A detailed rehabilitation program has been
drawn up by the Government, assisted by a United Nations Dredging Advisor and a Dutch
tearn of consultants.
2.15       Total fleet tonnage amounts to almost 2 million, including about 600,000
for tankers. The inter-island fleet amounts to about 400,000 deadweight tons, but only
about two-thirds is operational; it carries about 8 tons of cargo per deadweight ton per
year compared with 15 tons per deadweight ton which could be reasonably expected.
Service by the powered fleet is often unreliable and unduly slow. A program has been
developed by the Government for rehabilitating and replacing part of the inter-island fleet;
a method of financing the program is currently under consideration by the Association.
(e)   Aviation
2.16       Indonesia has two international airports (at Kamajoran/Djakarta on Java and
at Nguach Rai on Bali) and 36 domestic airports. At Kamajoran/Djakarta, the United
States Agency for International Development is financing a feasibility study which is nearing
completion; improvements to the existing airport and selection of a new site, if necessary,
are being investigated. At most domestic airports, lengths and bearing strengths of runways
and navigational aids are inadequate. To permit efficient use of new types of aircraft,
improvements such as lengthening and strengthening runways are scheduled for 18 airports
in the next few years.
2.17       The present domestic air traffic volume is low because equipment and facilities
are scarce. Air transport is currently not significant in freight traffic and accounts for
only about 1% of total passenger traffic, but it is growing in importance as a rapid means
of linking the islands and of opening the otherwise inaccessible interiors of some larger
islands. Garuda Airline is the national flag carrier; in 1970 its fleet consisted of 37 aircraft.
As a result of the 1970/71 modernization program, conventional propeller aircraft have
been replaced by DC-9s. In terms of passenger seat kilometers, Garuda's fleet capacity
should be sufficient to absorb traffic growth for the next few years.



- 5-
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.18       The current Five-Year Development Plan (1969-73) includes a Rp 100 billion
(US$260 million) investment target for roads and road transport, Rp 33 billion (US$87
million) for railways, Rp 46 billion (US$122 million) for marine transport, and Rp 21
billion (US$56 million) for aviation. The allocation among modes was prepared without
adequate information and is only a rough framework for investment. Current trends in
the Government development program indicate that actual investments for the whole sector
over the Five-Year Plan period are likely to be close to the original target of Rp 200
billion, but substantial departures from the original allocations among modes are expected
in view of the knowledge and experience accumulated since the basic Plan was formulated.
2.19       Project and budget preparation for highway construction originate in the
Directorate-General of Highways in the Ministry of Public Works and Power; for other
modes they originate in the Directorates-General of Sea Communications, Aviation, and
Land Transport in the Ministry of Communications. The project proposals are reviewed
by planning bureaus of these Ministries and subsequently by the Communications and
Infrastructure Division of the National Planning Council (BAPPENAS), which is responsible
for determining the total investment budget for the sector.  However, the original
presentations are such that comparisons of projects even within one transport mode are
difficult. Neither the Ministries nor the Planning Council have adequate qualified staff
to prepare or evaluate investment proposals, and foreign experts from the UNDP-financed
Transport Coordination Advisory Services (TCAS) are being used for this purpose.
2.20       Urgent requirements of project identification an_d preparation in the transport
agencies are being met by technical assistance. The UNDP is financing consulting services
to assist the Government's highway agency in determining investment priorities and
planning an efficient highway organization. The Association is financing technical support
services, as a follow-up to the UNDP-financed services, to assist and advise on highway
planning and on execution of highway rehabilitation and maintenance programs. The
Dutch Government is providing technical assistance in inter-island shipping and is financing
consulting services (NEDECO) for port rehabilitation and dredging. The Belgian
Government is providing an inland waterway survey team. A consulting team from the
Federal Republic of Germany (DECONSULT) is assisting in railways. The Canadian
Government is expected to begin technical assistance in aviation early in 1971 to
complement the on-going assistance from the Dutch Government to the national flag carrier
(Garuda Airline). These technical assistance teams are improving project preparation in
the agencies, but progress in training local personnel is slow. It is likely that continued
technical assistance will be required in the foreseeable future.
2.21       Coordination  of investments and  policies remains a serious problem,
particularly because the infrastructure and equipment of all modes are seriously run-down
and competing claims on investment resources are substantial. It is difficult to determine
the most urgent requirements based on available data. The UNDP has been providing the



-6-
TCAS team to the National Planning Council to assist in coordination, but during most
of 1970 the team consisted of only one member engaged primarily in advising the planning
agencies on daily operations. The team is now being expanded; as a result, more long-
range work can be undertaken. The Bank Group's Resident Staff are also assisting the
Government in transport planning and coordination; their efforts appear to b)e leading
to improvements.
2.22       The expanded TCAS team will also advise the Planning Council on transport
policy and provide technical assistance on the collection of traffic and transport cost data.
Government taxation policies have barely influenced traffic allocations among modes
because shippers are usually influenced by the quality of service and not by relative rates
and tariffs, but the Government's restrictive import policies on vehicles have impeded
highway transport development. Furthermore, a thorough study of the levels and
distribution of road user charges has not been made and is necessary if a sound road
transport policy is to be formnulated. The Government is currently considering plans for
such a study by the TCAS team over the next two years. During credit negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that this study will be carried out and
that continued efforts will be made, with the assistance of the TCAS team, to establish
a sound data base for the fonnulation of a comprehensive transport policy.
III. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01       The public highway system totals 82,000 km, of which about 15.000 km
are paved. The roads are classified as "national", "provincial", and "county" (also known
as "district" or "village"). This indicates their relative importance and is the basis for
defining administrative, financial, and executive procedures associated with construction
and maintenance. The national roads, about 10,000 km, are the country's trunk routes;
the provincial roads, about 22,000 km, are the main routes of the 26 provinces; and
the county roads, about 50,000 km, comprise the remainder. In addition, agricultural
estates and oil companies construct and maintain roads outside the system. A tabulation
of the system by surface type is shown in Table 2.
3.02       The system is also divided according to design axle-load and geometric design
standards. The axle-load carrying capacity is divided into six classes, ranging from 1.5-7.5 m
tons (Table 3). - A new classification of roads by geometric design standards (Table 4),
whereby they are classed as primary and secondary highways and feeder roads, was recently
adopted by the Government based on recommendations of the Highway Services.
Appropriate standards, related to traffic and terrain, have been designated for each class.
Pavement designs for new highway construction are based on a 10-m ton single axle-load
and structural designs on a standard similar to that of the British Ministry of Transport.
The new classification and standards are satisfactory and will gradually be applied to the
system.



-7-
B.   Highway Transport
3.03       The registered vehicle fleet (excluding Armed Forces vehicles) in January 1969
totaled about 330,000 vehicles, of which 212,000 were cars, 96,000 trucks, and 20,000
buses (Tables 5 and 6). Records of periodic inspections indicate that only about 60,000
trucks and 11,000 buses are in use because the fleet is old and spare parts for the estimated
74 different makes are difficult to obtain (Table 7). About 65% of the trucks now in
use are over nine years old and their average capacity does not exceed 3.5 m tons (Table
8).
3.04       Road traffic in 1969 (including the Armed Forces) amounted to about 12
billion ton-km and 27 billion pass-km. Traffic development is difficult to assess because
the Government collects little data on the road transport industry (90% consists of
one-vehicle enterprises) and because the amount of Armed Forces participation is uncertain.
Traffic growth must have been minimal or close to zero during the years when the economy
stagnated and the road system and vehicle fleet deteriorated.
3.05       Comprehensive traffic counts were resumed in 1970 after a lapse of about
10 years and were based on recommendations of the Highway Services to the Government
on traffic counting requirements and methods.  Regular traffic counting took place in
1970 at some 890 stations on the national and provincial highways. Also the Government
prepared a program for increasing the frequency and improving the scope of traffic
counting. During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
traffic counting will be continued and expanded to include selective counts by vehicle
type so that data for highway planning will be available.
3.06       The Department of Land Transport of the Ministry of Communications
controls vehicle weiglhts and dimensions, but carries out checks only on national highways.
Overloading of vehicles is widespread and has contributed to the deterioration of the roads
and possibility  of bridge collapse.  The Highway Services recommended, and the
Government accepted, a national policy on vehicle weights and dimensions which calls
for gradual adoption of new regulations in line with modern standards. The policy takes
into account the low design axle-loads (1.5-7.5 m tons) and poor condition of much of the
existing highway system. During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that all required measures will be taken to: (a) introduce, as soon as
practicable, appropriate regulations limiting vehicular dimensions and axle-loads so they
comply with the structural and geometric design standards of the highway network; and
(b) ensure that these regulations are effectively enforced.
C.   Highway Administration
3.07       Administration of the public road system  follows the three tiers of road
classification. National roads are the responsibility of the central government through
the Directorate-General of Highways (the Directorate-General); provincial roads, of the



- 8 -
provincial administrations; and couinty roads, of the district administrations.  The
Directorate-General is part of the Ministry of Public Works and Power (MPW), which
includes, among other branches, the Directorates-General of Irrigation and of Housing and
Building (see Chart). This aggregation of functions within the MPW is repeated at the
provincial level where provincial works organizations are responsible for roads, irrigation,
and buildings.
3.08       Under the present system, the Government controls those highway works it
finances (para. 3.09); funds are provided through the accounting system of the
Directorate-General.  Completed works are inspected by the Directorate-General. This
is satisfactory for specific, readily-defined construction works, but more precise procedures
are required for the many widespread maintenance works the Government now is financing
(para. 3.10). During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Goverilinent
that, in accordance with sound highway engineering, financial, and accounting practices:
(a) highway maintenance works financed from national funds will be adequately prepared;
(b) expenditures will be duly monitored; and (c) all works will be inspected in detail
when completed.
D.   Highway Financing
3.09       Financing  of road  works is normally  provided  by  the  organization
adminstratively responsible for the road in question. However, the central government
finances maintenance of national and provincial roads as well as construction of national
roads and provincial roads of national or inter-provincial importance; provincial
governments similarly finance county road construction.
3.10       Reliable  figures  are  not  available  on  past  expenditures  by  the
Directorate-General for construction and maintenance, but the Directorate- General asserts
that expenditures approximated budget allocations. These allocations for 1969-70 and
1970-71, together with the proposed budget for 1971-72, are shown in Table 9. The
total allocation rises from US$28 million in 1969-70 to US$47 million in 1971-72. Over
the same period, the maintenance allocation has increased from US$0.5 million to over
US$12 million. Neither budget nor expenditure figures are available for provincial and
district road organizations.
E.   Highway Planning and Engineering
3.11       New construction and major improvement works on national roads are initially
selected by the Directorate of Planning and Survey of the Directorate-General (Chart).
The Directorate-General then submits the selection to the National Planning Council for
approval. Subsequent detailed investigation and engineering are the responsibility of the
Directorate of Planning and Survey. Planning and engineering of provincial roads are carried
out either by the Directorate of Planning and Survey or the provincial works organization,
depending on the complexity of the work and availability of staff. The First Highway



-9-
Project includes provision of a small team to assist and advise the Directorate-General
on planning; the UNDP-financed TCAS and the Resident Mission advise and assist the
National Planning Council.
3.12       The capacity for planning and engineering is severely limited by the lack of
professional and technical staff. The Planning and Survey Directorate has only 21 civil
engineers.  Provincial professional engineering staff, who also deal with irrigation and
building works, range from a maximum of 20 per province in Java to less than 10 per
province in the remainder of the country. This situation has resulted because only a
small number of graduate engineers are available (about 120 per year for both the public
and private sectors) and because working conditions and pay are poor (para. 2.20).
3.13       The Directorate-General is taking steps to strengthen its planning and
engineering capacity and arrangements have been made for 20 of its personnel to undergo
overseas training and study through UNDP fellowships. The root of the staffing problem
lies, however, with the very low salaries in the Directorate-General and throughout the
civil service. Because a large number of people are involved, the major problem of attracting
and retaining competent staff for the Directorate-General can only be overcome by a drastic
change in civil service salaries, a major policy matter which is beyond the scope of the
proposed project.
F.   Highway Construction
3.14       Construction is normally carried out by departmental forces, assisted by small
contractors who supply labor but use departmental equipment and materials. Since
construction programs have been small in recent years, growth of local contractors has
been inhibited and none is capable of undertaking major highway construction works.
Foreign contractors will have to be employed for most of the immediate highway
construction; a number of foreign firms already are working in Indonesia.
3.15       The construction element of the proposed project (paras. 4.02 and 4.03) is
a major undertaking and requires considerable skill, experience, and resources. It does
not therefore lend itself to participation and development of small local contractors. Future
programs include feeder roads which would be smaller in scope and simpler to construct;
local contractors could participate. The Government should take steps to encourage
participation of local contractors in highway construction by all reasonable means, and,
in this regard, the opportunity was taken during credit negotiations to explore the measures
the Government would be prepared to take. The Indonesian negotiators agreed that local
contractors should be encouraged and to recommend to the Government the following
specific measures: (a) stating its intention to undertake more civil works by contractors;
(b) publicizing a medium or long-term program of civil works; (c) breaking down suitable
works (such as feeder roads) into small contracts; and (d) providing technical assistance
on costing, planning, and executing projects through a local contracting federation. Other
possible measures will be explored.



- 10 -
G.   Highway Maintenance
3.16       During the many years of economic stagnation, maintenance was neglected,
and the highway system deteriorated seriously because Indonesia did not have a satisfactory
highway maintenance organization. Some paved lengths degenerated into gravel or stone
surfaced roads and many unpaved roads became little more than dry season tracks. Lack
of maintenance also seriously affected steel bridges; some have collapsed and others are
dangerously corroded.
3.17       Based on recommendations from  the Highway Services, a comprehensive
program of road and bridge rehabilitation has begun and road maintenance is gradually
improving. The First Highway Project covers rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of high
priority roads and provides technical assistance and equipment, with the result that highway
maintenance is gradually becoming satisfactory.
3.18      The Highways Services estimated that for 1968-69 the average allocation for
maintenance of national and provincial roads was US$40/km, a very small and inadequate
amount. The present accounting procedures preclude determining how effectively the
allocation was used. Based on the recommendations of the Association, the
Directorate-General's 1971-72 budget contains an average allocation of US$380/km for
maintenance of national and provincial roads, excluding equipment depreciation. During
the present phase of highway reorganization, this allocation is satisfactory because part
of the work normally carried out under periodic maintenance is being covered and financed
separately under the rehabilitation program, and the bulk of the equipment is provided
from Credit 154-IND.
3.19       Highway maintenance should continue to receive special attention from the
Directorate-General and the provincial administrations. During credit negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that continuing steps will be taken
throughout the highway system to place and retain highway maintenance operations (and
the allied workshop facilities) on a satisfactory physical and financial basis.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01       The project is in Sumatra and comprises:
(a)  construction to two-lane paved standards of about 200 km of a national
highway between Sawatambang and Muarabungo and supervision by
consultants;
(b)  detailed engineering of an extension, about 300 km long, of the national
highway between Muarabungo and Lubuklinggau;



- 11 -
(c)   a  regional  study   of  the  area  served  by  the  Sawatambang-
Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau  national  highway  and  subsequent detailed
engineering of about 500 km of feeder roads in that area; and
(d)  detailed engineering of about 700 km of a national highway between Padang
and Medan and of some 500 km of related feeder roads.
The location of the project and its elements are shown on the Maps.
B.   Construction and Supervision of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo National Highway
4.02       The Sawatambang-Muarabungo national highway is part of the main route
between Padang (the capital of West Sumatra Province) and Palembang (the capital of
South Sumatra Province). The existing highway is geometrically poor; due to lack of
maintenance, it has degenerated into a rutted track and much of it is extremely difficult
to negotiate. Many bridges have collapsed and parts of the highway are impassable to
motor vehicles during the rainy season. The section of existing highway from Sawatambang
to Padang, which connects the project section to the port of Padang, is being rehabilitated
to two-lane paved standards under the First Highway Project.
4.03       The section to be constructed is the first 200 km of the 500 km long
Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau highway. A feasibility study for the whole road
was carried out by the Highway Services in 1970. Detailed engineering by consultants
(SAUTI, Italy) is currently being carried out (para. 4.04) according to the
Directorate-General's Class II B design standards (Table 4 and para. 3.02) with shoulder
widths reduced to 2 m. For the traffic volume envisaged (about 1,000 passenger car units
daily five years after opening), the design standards are satisfactory. The Government
intends to engage the same consultants to supervise construction; terms of reference
acceptable to the Association have been prepared. The arrangements for supervision are
satisfactory.
C.   Detailed  Engineering  of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau
National Highway
4.04       The Terms of Reference and arrangements for carrying out detailed engineering
of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau highway (500 km) were agreed with the
Association in connection with Technical Assistance Credit 216-IND. Detailed engineering
began in November 1970 and is being carried out by consultants (SAUTI, Italy) under
Credit 216-IND. About 200 km will have been completed by the time the proposed credit
is approved. To conserve Credit 216-IND funds for high priority studies and other technical
assistance projects (for which alternative finance is not available), completion of detailed
engineering for the remaining 300 km will be financed under the proposed credit and
is therefore included in this project.



- 12 -
D.   Regional Study and Subsequent Detailed Engineering of Feeder Roads for the Area
of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau National Highway
4.05       The objective of this study will be to formulate a master plan for regional
development  aimed   at  maximizing   the   developmental  benefits  of  the
Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau highway. The study will: assess the present state
of economic development in the influence area, emphasizing the constraints upon regional
developrnent which lhave beent imposed by lack of transport; survey the resource endowrnent
and major development potentials of the area; and identify feeder road development and
other infrastructure investments required to realize these potentials efficiently. Subsequent
detailed engineering of the feeder roads identified by the study would be undertaken by
consultants.
4.06       During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that, while taking into account other demands on its resources, it will consult and agree
with the Association on a development program, based on the recommendations of the
study, for the area served by the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau highway.
Summary Terms of Reference prepared by the Bank Group are given in Annex A.
E.   Detailed Engineering of the Padang-Medan National Highway and Related
Feeder Roads
4.07       The national highway between Padang and Medan (the capital of North
Sumatra) follows an extremely tortuous route through difficult hilly and mountainous
terrain. The Highway Services are presently carrying out a feasibility study of the highway
and related feeder roads under terms of reference agreed by the Association.
4.08       The feasibility report will be submitted in November 1971 and, contingent
on its findings, detailed engineering of the Padang-Medan highway and its related feeder
roads will be executed by consultants under the proposed project. The length of national
highway to be engineered is currently estimated at 700 km, with some 500 km of feeder
roads.
F.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.09       T he estimated cost of the proposed project is US$49 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$34 million. Details are shown below.



-  13  -
Foreign
Rp (million)            US$ (million)        Exchange
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Component
1. Construction of
Sawatambang-
Muarabungo
highway           4,234   7,862   12,096   11.2      20.8     32.0      65
Supervision of
construction        156    624       780   0.3        1.5       1.8     80
II. Completion of
detailed engineer-
ing of Muarabungo-
Lubuklinggau high-
way                  98     393      491    0.2       1.1      1.3      80
III. Regional study
and detailed
engineering of
feeder roads for
the area served
by the Sawatambang-
Lubuklinggau
highway             106     423       529   0.4       1.4       1.8     80
IV. Detailed engineer-
ing of Padang-
Medan highway
and related
feeder roads        341   1,L6      1,777   0.8       3.5      4.3      80
Sub-total
I-IV            4,935  10,738    15,673   12.9     28.3     41.2
V. Contingencies
Physical (all
items: 10%)       493   1,074      1,567    1.2      2.8      4.0
Price (construc-
tion only: I1%)*   542   1,04      1,582   0.9       2.9      3.8
Total I-V       5,970  12,852    18,822   15.0     34.0     49.0
*    Includes rounding.



- 14 -
4.10       Cost estimates for highway construction were prepared by SAUTI, based on
detailed quantities. Cost estimates for detailed engineering of national highways were
derived from  the consultants' agreement for the on-going detailed engineering of the
Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau highway (para. 4.04). Estimates for the regional
study and detailed engineering of feeder roads, and supervision of construction were based
on an evaluation of man-month requirements and rates currently used in Indonesia on
similar services.  All estimates are reasonable.
4.11       A 10% contingency allowance was added to cover possible quantity increases,
in view of the amount of detailed engineering carried out for the highway construction;
this is sufficient.  The 11% price contingency allowance was based on an estimated 10%
p.a. price increase in Indonesia and 5%o p.a. price increase in countries from which
contractors, construction materials, and equipment probably would originate over the
project period.
4.12       The foreign exchange component of construction work was assessed by the
design consultants at about 65% for execution wholly by foreign contractors. Local
contractors are expected to participate only to a minor degree (para. 3.15) and their
participation will not significantly affect the foreign exchange component. The assessment
of 65% for the foreign exchange component is reasonable. The foreign exchange component
of the construction supervision, regional study, and detailed engineering was estimated
at 80%. The shortage of local personnel qualified and experienced in the skills required
for this type of service necessitates extensive use of foreign staff by consultants and gives
rise to the relatively high figure of 80o.
G. Project Financing and Execution
4.13       The proposed credit of US$34 million will finance the foreign exchange costs
of the project.  The Government intends to finance the local costs as part of the
Directorate-General's annual development budgets. During credit negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that adequate funds will be included in the
Directorate-General's annual development budgets to cover the local costs of the proposed
project. Based on the Government's performance on the First Highway Project, no undue
difficulties are expected on this point.
4.14       The Director-General of Highways, assisted by qualified consultants, will be
responsible for project execution. There are no restrictions on the operation of foreign
consultants. During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will promptly retain consultants, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, for construction supervision, study, and detailed engineering included in the
project.



- 15 -
4.15       Highway construction will be divided into three contract bidding sections of
about US$10 million each. Contracts will be based on unit rates. Bidding for the first
contract section will commence as soon as documents are finalized (September/October
1971).  Bidding for the other two sections will follow at approximately three-month
intervals. Suitably prequalified contractors will be pennitted to undertake more than one
contract section.
4.16       No regulations restrict the operatior of foreign contractors. The Government
has agreed to carry out bidder prequalification in a manner acceptable to the Association
and bidding for construction according to the Association's guidelines for international
competitive bidding. During credit negotiations, assurances on these points were obtained
from the Government.
4.17       The highway is located in a farming area where population density is low
and unemployment minimal. Although there are high population densities and higher
unemployment in Java, some 1,500 km away, discussions during credit negotiations
indicated that it would be virtually impossible to transfer at this time any sizeable labor
force from Java to Sumatra for road construction purposes. Therefore, construction of
this project road by labor intensive methods is considered impractical. During credit
negotiations, it was stated that national policy supports coordination of labor requirements
and migration, but completion of the regional study and formulation of a development
plan (paras. 4.05 and 4.06) is necessary to encourage migration from the more populated
areas and the possibilities for labor intensive construction of future development projects,
including feeder roads, will provide additional means of encouraging such migration.
4.18       Construction under the first contract will start early in 1972 and should be
completed by the end of the first quarter of 1975. The regional study and detailed
engineering (except for the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau highway on which
detailed engineering is already in progress, para. 4.04) will start toward the end of 1971
and should be completed by the end of 1973. The timing of project execution was
agreed during credit negotiations.
H.   Disbursements
4.19       Credit funds will be disbursed on the basis of 65% of the cost of highway
construction, and the actual foreign exchange cost of consultants' services. Any surplus
funds under the Credit Account not needed to finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project will be cancelled. Based on the timing in para. 4.18, disbursements of foreign
currency for the project will be as shown in Annex B.



- 16 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01       The immediate needs of the transport sector of Indonesia are rehabilitation
and improved maintenance of the road system. The Highway Services have identified the
most urgent requirements and prepared a rehabilitation program covering about 12,000
km. With technical and financial assistance from external sources, including the Association,
work on the rehabilitation program is progressing satisfactorily and road maintenance is
gradually improving (para. 3.20). It is now necessary to turn to the long-term development
program, in which the major requirements of the transport sector are reconstruction of
roads which have degenerated into barely negotiable tracks and construction of feeder
roads to serve major highways. These roads are particularly important in the underpopulated
islands where substantial development opportunities exist.
5.02       The proposed project represents a major step in the development of Sumatra.
Together with other studies being undertaken by the Government, the proposed project
will establish the economic and technical basis for construction and improvement of a
major trunk road linking Medan at the northern end of Sumatra with Bakahuni at the
southern end, where a proposed road ferry will provide a connection to the main island
of Java. This link is important in social and political terms as well as in economic. The
proposed project will include construction of about 200 km in the mid-section of this
central artery, which has been given highest priority by the Highway Services. A study
of the development potentials of the area served by this highway and its extension to
Lubuklinggau has also been included, as well as detailed engineering of an adjacent 700
km of the trunk road and its related feeder roads (see Chapter IV). The highway network
included in the proposed project will eventually cover an influence area of about 140,000
km2 in Sumatra, which has considerable potentials for agriculture and forestry, and possibly
for mining and tourism.
B.   Construction of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo National Highway
(a) Objectives
5.03       The proposed construction of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo highway will
provide a badly needed road in the provinces of West Sumatra and Djambi and will also
be the first stage of construction and improvement of the north-south trunk road in
Sumatra. The project road passes through an area, parts of which were relatively well
developed before World War 11, but now have been reduced to scattered subsistence farming
and smallholder production of low quality rubber (mainly as a result of the continued
deterioration of the road network). Population density in the influence area (24 persons
per kni2) is now much lower than the average for all Sumatra. Large areas of land suitable
for agricultural development and vast forests of commercial timber in the area now are
inaccessible. Further details on the agricultural and forestry potentials of the area are
given in Annex C.



- 1l  -
5.04       Construction of the national highway is expected to exert a major impact
on the economic developrnent of the area bv: providing access for extension services and
modem inputs for agriculture; opening new areas for agricultural development and timber
extraction; providing suitable and lower cost facilities for transport of rubber products;
and inducing greater producer's incentives through lower transport costs. Construction of
the national highway will be accompanied by a regional study of its influence area to
identify the area's development potentials, assess feeder road and other infrastructure
investment requirements, and recommend policies and development programns which would
maximize the benefits of the proposed road construction.
(b)   Traffic
5.05       The condition and characteristics of the existing road are indicated in Chapter
IV. Average daily traffic (ADT) in 1969 on the existing road ranged from 68 at the
northernmost point to 12 at the southemmost.  tranisport costs on the road are about
eight times that of a normnal roacd in Indonesia. A substantial increase in traffic is expected
immediately after construction as the restult of tr?ffic diverted From other modes, primarily
rivers, which have served as the major transpOrt systemn in the area since the project road
deteriorated.
(c)   Benefits
5.06        An accurate quantification of all potential benefits of the proposed investment
must await the results of the regional study of the influence area included in the project.
Hlowever, there are immediately identifiable benefits to be derived from the proposed
construction of the highway without substantial Government investment in other sectors,
and the following are quantifiable:
(a)   savings in transport costs for traffic on the existing road and traffic diverted
from rivers; and
(b)   value-added of generated productioni of rubber, rice, and timber.
See Annex D for further details on the estimated benefits and the treatment of related
investment requirements.
5.07        Other benefits which have not been quantified are:  generated production
of other crops and export commodities; savings in costs of maintaining the existing road;
accessibility of the area for administrative, political, and social cohesion; and benefits
attributable to this road as a section of the central artery systemn in Sumatra (para. 5.02).
Also, only agricultural production in areas no more than 10 km from the proposed road
or from rivers feeding the proposed road has been assumed to be influenced by the proposed
construction; increased agricultural production over a larger area after feeder roads have



- 18 -
been constructed has not been included. The computed benefits are, therefore, very
conservative. 1
5.08        On the basis of the present estimated costs and benefits (Table 10) over the
20-year assumed life of the project, the expected rate of return is 19% (Table 11). In
view of the lack of previous major highway construction experience in Sumatra and the
uncertainties of agricultural projections, the sensitivity of the 19% return has been tested
by postulating increases and decreases of construction costs and benefits by 25%, and
by excluding the expected benefits from generated output of rice and rubber. The results,
shown in Table 11, indicate that in the most pessimistic combination of circumstances
the rate of return would be 12% and in the most optimistic combination, 26%. The
project is therefore justified.
C.   Regional Study of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau National Highway
and Detailed Engineering of the Padang-Medan National Highway
5.09       The proposed regional study of the area served by the  Sawatambang-
Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau highway will enable the Government to make sound plans for
the economic development of the area. The regional study will identify the optimum
development pattern and be the basis for designing a feeder road system. Available
information indicates that the area offers considerable opportunities for agricultural,
mining, and forestry development, as well as for migration projects.
5.10       The Resident Mission has reconnoitered the Padang-Medan highway and
concluded that large benefits will result from construction of a new road and possibly
new feeder roads. Even in its present dilapidated condition, the southernmost section
between Padang and Bukittinggi carries an ADT of about 1,000 vehicles. Traffic diminishes
north of Bukittinggi, but still is significant. A feasibility study of the highway and related
feeder roads is presently being carried out by the Highway Services. The proposed detailed
engineering will enable the Government to proceed to construction with firm cost estimates.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        During credit negotiations, the Government gave a number of assurances; the
most important of these follow. A study of highway user charges will be carried out
and continuing efforts will be made to establish a data base for formulation of a
comprehensive transport policy (para. 2.22). In accordance with sound highway engineering,
1    To allow for a natural re-afforestation cycle, maximum annual extraction of timber in the area
is assumed at one-sixtieth of total marketable commercial timber. This is in accordance with
concession terms generally offered by the Government and would ensure a constant stock of forestry
resources.



- 19 -
financial, and accounting practices, highway maintenance works financed from national
funds will be adequately prepared, expenditures will be duly monitored, and all works
will be inspected in detail when completed (para. 3.08). While taking into account other
demands on its resources, a development program, based on the recommendations of the
regional study, for the area served by the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau highway
will be discussed and agreed with the Association (para. 4.06).
6.02      Also during credit negotiations, it was agreed that specific measures will be
recommended to the Government for encouraging development of the local contracting
industry as well as its increased participation in highway construction (para. 3.15).
6.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$34
million to the Government of Indonesia on the usual terms.






INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Hiehwav Svstem 1/
Area                     Population (1970)
By Region   % of National      By Region    % of National                                                         (km)
Reeion                        (km 1          Area           (millions)     Population      Province                  National Roads   Provincial Roads  County Roads   1gt&1
Java                          132,000           7              78.2            64.7        Djakarta                         _                 450               -
West Java                       620              1,850           4,970
Central Java                    410              1,800           6,680
Jogjakarta                       30                110             740
East Java                       520              2.690           6.930
1,580             6,900          19,320        27,800
Sumatra                       474,000          25              19.8            16.4        Atjeh                            490             1,040            3,540
North Sumatra                   790              2,390           3,540
West Sumatra                    570              1,080           1,890
Riau                             90                660             840
Djanbi                          430                570             610
South Sumatra)                  0'-0             3,470           2,760
Bengkulu     )
Lampung                        21Q                 510          2.250
3,270             9,720          15,430        28,420
Ealimantan                    539,000          28               5.2             4.3        West Kalimantan                  450               990              500
(Indonesian Borneo)                                                                        Central Kalimantan                80                80               50
South Kalimantan                280                490           1,800
East Kalimantan                 200                220              70
1,010             1,780            2,420        5,210
Sulawesi (Celcbes)             189,000         10               8.9             7.3        North Sulawesi                   720               380               80
Central Sulawesi                600                610           3,420
South Sulawesi                  580              1,230           2,180
South-East Sulawesi             Igo                240           1.620
2,090             2,460           7,300       11,850
The Principal                   94,000          5               7.9             6.5        Bali                             390                310           1,050
Smaller Islands                                                                           West-Nusa Tenggara               490                 70           1,710
East-Nusa Tenggara            1,230                340           1,350
Maluku                           80                220             540
2,190               940           4,650         7,780
West Irian
(Indonesian New Guinea)       422.000          22               1.0             0.8        West Irian                       -                 880              -            880
Total                   1.8A0.000         21             121.0           100.0                                      10.140            22.680          _49.120       81.9H1
/ Excluding municipal roads (totaling about 2,000 km).
]/ The total land area of Indonesia, including numerous smaller islands not in the above
grouping, is approximately 1,904,000 be2.
Sources: Area and population statistics: Central Bureau of Statistics
Highway Statistics: Directorate-General of Highways and Ministry of Public Works and Power
May 21, 1971



TABIE 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway System -- Type of Surface
Type of Surface          National Roads  Provincial Roads  County Roads       Total
inn       %               km                     km       %
Asphaltic Concrete         150      1.5      -         _-             -       150   0.2
Paved (Bituminous
Surface Treatment)    4,500      45.0    8,000    36.4    3,000    6.0 15,500  18.9
Unpaved
Gravel                5,350      53.5   12,000    54.5   16,500  33.0 33,850  41.3
Earth                    -         -     2,000     9.1   30,500  61.0 32,500  39.6
Total              10,000    100.0   22,000   100.0   50,000 100.0 82,000 100.0
Sources: Directorate-General of Highways and Ministry of Public Works and Power
May 21, 1971



TABLE 3
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway System -- Deodgn Load-Carrying Capacity
Design
Axle-Loadi !   National Roads   Provincial Roads   County Roads       Total Systum
Class       (m ton)        km2/             ok:7               kn/       %       km2      X
about                             about
I.         7.50            70      1          50      1/4     -        -          120    1/7
II.         5.00        1,2jO      12       1,250      6       -        -        2,480    3
III.         3.50         3,200     32       9,000    41        -        -       12,200   15
TTIIA.       2.75        1,900      19       4,000    18        -        -        5,900    7
IV.         2.00        2,000      20       7,000    32        -        -        9,000   11
V.         1.50         1.600     16         700    _        '.o00O2/  100    52,300   64
Total                10,000    100       22       100       50,000    100    82,000  100
==
1/  The calculations for determining pavement strength are conservative, and the above
figures may therefore understate the true bearing capacity; this seems to be con-
firmed by the weight and volume of traffic using the system. The load-carrying
capacity of the bridges is generally compatible with that of the road of which
they are part, but the weights of vehicles using the bridges indicate that bridge
classification too may be understating the strength.
2/  The classification of county roads as "V" reflects primarily the strength of only
the bridges since 90% of the county roads are unpaved (Table 2) and pavement
strength is not meaningful unless ambient conditions are specified.
Sourcese Directorate-General of Highways and Ministry of Public Works and Power
May 21, 1971



INDONEIA
SECOND HIGHWgA PROJECT
Geometric Desigg Standards /
Road Classification              Primary Highways                                     SecondarY Hijzhvys                                       Feeder Roads
I                    _       IA                    II B                        II C                       III
Terrain                                 Noun-                      Moun-                    Noun-                       Moun-                       Moun-
Flat Rollinz  tainous    Flat Rolling  tainous    Flat Rolling tainous          Flat Rolling  tainous       Flat  Rollin  tainous
Average Daily Traffic               >20,000                   6,000-20,000               l,500-8,OOO                    <2,000
(AXT) in Passenger Car Units
Design Speed (km/h)            120    100      80         100     80      60         80     60      40          60     40       30          60     h0      30
Minimum Right of Way(m)         60     60      60          40     40      40         30     30      30          30      30      30          20     20       20
Pavement Width (m)              Minimum   4x3.75          2x3.50 or  4x3l.50                2x3.50                      2x3.00                   3.50-6.oo
Minimum Median Width (m)                 10                      1.50                                                                                _
Shoulder Width (m)             3.50   3.00    3.00        3.00   2.50    2.50       3.00   2.50   2.50         2.50   1.50    1.00               1.50-2.50I"
Pavement Cross Slope                     2%                       2%                          2%                         3%                         4%
Shoulder Cross Slope                     4,%                      4%                          6%                         6%                         6%
Surfacing Type                  Asphaltic Concrete         Asphaltic Concrete       High Type Penetration       Maximum to Single            Maximum to Surface
(hot mix)                                                                  Type Penetration                Treatment
Maximum Superelevation                  10%                      10%                        10%                          10%                       10%
Minimum Horizontal Radius       560   350      210        350    210     115         210    115     50         115      50      30         115     50       30
(m)
Maximum Grade                    3%   5%       6%          4%    6%       7%         5%    7%    8%             6%      8%    10%           6%    8%       12%
1/ Pavement design based on a 10-ton single axle-load; structural designs based on
British Ministry of Tranaport H.A. Loading.
- Only for h-lane highways.
3/ According to condition.
Sources: Directorate-General of Highways and Ministry of Public Works and Power
May 21, 1971



TABLE 5
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicles Registered, 1961-196 -
(excluding military and diplomatic)
Total
Total                    Motorized
Year      Cars       Trucks      Buses      4-wheel  Motormcles         Vehicles
1961     103,254    75,488      17,855      196,627      n.a.            n.a.
1962     128,336     69,738    18,646       216,720    172,417         389,137
1963     136,618     77,761     17,336      231,715    196,586         428,301
1964     157,478     83,271     19,541      260,290    220,953         481,243
1965     166,845    84,647      18,414      269,906    235,413         505,319
1966     179,494     92,891    19,584       291,969    281,779          573,748
1967     184,954     94,892     18,840      298,686    287,522          586,208
1968     201,743     93,417     19,612      314,772    308,404         623,176
1969     212,124     95,660     20,497      328,281    336,597          664,878
1/ Includes large number of inoperative vehicles which have not been taken
off the registration list.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics
May 21, 1971



TABLE 6
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registrations --
Geographic Distribution, 19692
Total
Trucks      Total                 2/  Motorized
Area                    Cars      Trucks       Buses    & Buses      4-wheel    Motorcycles-   Vehicles
Java and lladura      165,401    55,674      9,491      65,165       230,566      269,481         500,047
Dbakarta             77,870    18,450      4,595      23,o45      100,915        97,639         198,554
West                  31,543     9,930     1,736      11,666       43,209        48,724          91,933
Central3/             20,285    11,210     1,397      12,607       32,892        59,208          92,100
last                 35,703    16,084      1,763      17,847       53,550        63,910         117,460
Simuatra                31,258    27,853     8,693      36,546        67,804       42,216         110,020
North-/              14,837    12,179      4,176      16,355        31,192       26,246          57,438
GentralL/              4,705     5,014     1,175       6,189       10,894         7,021          17,915
Scouth.Y             11,716    10,660      3,3102     14,002        25,718        8,949          34,667
Kalimantan               4.302     3,382        32!i     3,706         8,oo8        5,333          13,341
Other Areas7/           11,163     8,751      1,989     L0,740        21,903       19,567          41,h70
Total           212,l24    95,660    20,497    116,157        328,281       336,597        664,878
1/  Includes all registered vehicles, including non-operational ones, except military or diplomatic vehicles.
2/  Includes motorcycles, motor scooters and motorized bicycles.
j/  Includes Jogjakarta.
4/  Includes Atjeh.
5/  Includes West Sumatra and Rian.
6/  Includes South Sumatra and Djambi.
7/  Includes Suilawesi, Bali, Lesser Sunda Islands (Nusa Tenggara), the Moluccas,and West Trian.
Source:  Central Statistical Bureau, Semua Kendaraan Bermotor, 1971.
May 21, 1971



TABLE 7
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Fleet in Use
Non-Military
Total
Total        Motor-       Motorized
Year      Cars         Trucks    Buses        4-wheel        cycles       Vehicles
1968     128,159       59,388    10,971       198,518        222,779      421,297
1969Y1/   134,567      62,654    11,574       208,795        239,108      447,903
19701/   141,295       66,413    12,268       219,976        261,297      481,273
Military
Sedans     Buses                                          Mis-     Total
and        and                    Total      Motor-    cella-  Motorized
Year      Jeeps      Trucks     Pickup      4-wheel      cycles    neous    Vehicles
1968      12,508      9,123     1,721        23,352       1,739     300    25,391
1969-     12,600      9,200     1,750        23,550       1,750     305    25,605
19702a    12,700      9,275     1,800        23,775       1,775     305    25,855
1/ Projected on basis of actual 1968 data.
Source: BAPPENAS, Industri Ban
May 21, 1971



TAB3LE 8
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Age Distribution of Vehicles in Central Java, January 1969i'
Cars                 Trucks                  Buses
Age in Years    Number                _Number      %         M_er       _
Under 1             2      0.12         81      1.08          8       0.80
1 - 5               2      0.12        749      9.97        127       12.62
5 - 9            321      18.95      1,14o9    18.75        333      33.10
Over 9         1.369      80.81      5,276     70.20        538       53.48
Total        10 9)4    100.00     7,51                  1006      100.00
1/ Includes only inspected vehicles.
Source: Vehicle Inspection Office, Central Java
May 21, 1971



TABLE 9
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Budget Smumary of Directorate-General of Highways
(Rp thousand)
Routine Budget                  Development Budget/                        Total
1969-70  1970-71  1971-72       1969-70    1970-71    1971-72        1969-70    1970-71    1971-72
Administration        166,248  229,000  245,837          -           -          -            166,248    229,000    245,837
(Head office)
Engineering             -         -        -           607,000  1,177,882    675,000         607,000  1,177,882    675,000
Upgrading               -         -        -         6,592,614  6,189,100  7,667,500       6,592,614  6,189,100  7,667,500
Rehabilitation          -         -        -         2,636,776  2,672,000  2,728,500       2,636,776  2,672,000  2,728,500
Maintenance           206,152  452,000  450,000           -      1,534,060  4,370,000        206,152  1,986,060  4,820,000
Handling cost equip-    -         -        -           541,000  2,049,958  1,415,000         541,000  2,04g,958  1,415,000
ment and materials
ex. project aid,
workshop, and other
facilities
Technical Support        -        -        -              -        152,000    160,000          -        152,000    160,000
Services, IDA
Total             372,400  681,000  695,837      10,377,390 13,775,000 17,016,000    10,749,790 14 O456  00 17,711,837
_~ ~~~~~~L __.                                                            O
1/ Includes administration cost of project.
/  Bulk of maintenance funds are tied to First Highway Project and hence Government classifies these as
"Development" rather than "Routine".
Source: Directorate-General of Highways
May 21, 1971.



INDONESIA
SECOND HIGRAY PFROJECT
Estiat.dCmt. -d s Bene'fits
1971    1972    1973    1971.   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    199h    1995
Benefits:
Transport cost savirgs                                    -       -       51      365    4O3      44    1.91    512       596     614     632     651      670     691     711     733      755     777     801     825      850     875     901     928
Valos-added of gnnernstd r-bber production                                 -       -       -       -      100     200     400     510      620     730   1,060   1,285   1,400   1,650   1,900   2.110   2,200   2,356   2,530   2,555   2,660   2,800
Valos-added of geanrated  ice produotion         -        -       -      100      300     500     600     700     900   1,000   1,065   1,130   1,195   1,250   1,322   1,401   1,485   1,575   1,660   1,750   1,750   1,750   1,750   1,750   1,750
Vsl1s-added of generated timber prod-otion                               600   1,200   1,350   1,500   1,650   1,800   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075   2,075
Costs:
Related Ag,io1ltnrsl inpots ard proces..rg
fooilitios    1/    -         -       -       50     150     300     350      358     4oo    500      510     520     525     610      695     780     860     941   1,020   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100
tgfir"ring                                     378
Right-of-"y                                    300     200
Constractien                                   -     3628   4,839    3,628
Supervision                                    -       234     312      231
Maintenan,                                     _    _         _           10    38       38      38      38      38      38      38      150      150    150      38      38      38       38      38     150     150      i5o      38      38      38
Net BRefiti (Cn t)                              -678  -4,062  -5,151   -3,072  1,677   1,915   2,156   2,553   3,004   3,533   3,716   3,787    3,976  4,295   4,640   8,769   5,455   5,323   5,564   5,576   5,756   5,955   6,117   6,2h8   6,h15
1/ Costs of fertilizers, stinualants ari rubber procnessig faoilities, irrigation rehabilitation costs, migrntion costs, and
salaries and aeministraMtve cots of entension wrkers.
Source: Mission Esti'nt-o
May 21, 1971



TABLE 11
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rates of Return for Construction of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo National Highway
Assumptions                            Rates of Return
(%)
Best estimate of construction costs, and
Most likely values of benefits                         19
25% increase in benefits                               22
25% decrease in benefits                               15
Benefits from transport cost                           14
savings and generated production
of timber only
Possible maximum construction costs (25% increase), and
Most likely values of benefits                         16
25% increase in benefits                               19
25% decrease in benefits                               13
Benefits from transport cost                           12
savings and generated production
of timber only
Possible minimum construction costs (25% decrease), and
Most likely values of benefits                         22
25% increase in benefits                               26
25% decrease in benefits                               18
Benefits from transport cost                           18
savings and generated production
of timber only
Source: Mission Estimates
May 21, 1971






ANNEX A
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Study of Economic Development
Potentials in the Influence Area of the
Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau National Highway
Summary Terms of Reference
A.   Objective
1.        The objective of the study will be to formulate a master plan for regional
development which, in its project and program  context, will aim at maximizing the
developmental benefits of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau national highway.
2.        To that effect, the study will:
(a)  assess the present state of economic development in the influence area,
emphasizing the constraints upon regional development imposed by lack of
transport facilities;
(b)  review the resources of the influence area and identify major development
potentials; and
(c)  assess feeder road development, other infrastructure investments, migration
programs, and supporting policies required to realize efficiently the promising
development potentials in the influence area.
3.        Based on the identification of promising development potentials and on an
assessment of investment requirements, and after discussion with the Government of
Indonesia, the study will proceed to:
(a)  identify specific projects or programs designed to take maximum advantage
of the highway investment;
(b)  integratc the recommended investment activities and supporting policies into
a comprehensive, phased 10-year program for economic development in the
influence area.



ANNEX A
Page 2
4.         The study will also suggest appropriate measures, including specific studies,
resource surveys, and mapping activities, which will facilitate the detailed formulation and
eventual implementation of priority projects and programs.
B.   Scope
5.         The study will assess the following development potentials:
(a)  rainfed food and fodder crops;
(b)  livestock;
(c)  irrigated food crops;
(d)   perennial crops (rubber, coffee, tea);
(e)   forestry;
(f)   supporting agro-industries; and
(g)   mining.
6.         Considering the objective and scope of the study, execution is expected to
take about 18 months and to require about 150 man-months of consultants' time.



ANNEX B
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                    Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                        at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1971/72
December 31, 1971                             330
March 31, 1972                              1,,430
Juhe 30, 1972                               3,750
1972/73
September 30, 1972                          6,510
December 31, 1972                           9 ,540
March 31, 1973                             12,900
June 30, 1973                              16,050
1973/74
September 30, 1973                         18,850
December 31, 1973                          21,650
March 31, 1974                             24,240
June 30, 1974                              26,800
19774/75
September 30, 1974                         28,980
December 31, 1974                          30,460
March 31, 1975                             31,800
June 30, 1975                              32,900
1975/76
beptember 30, 1975                         3h,000
Sourcet Mission Estimates
May 21, 1971






ANNEX C
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Agricultural Potential of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo National Highway
A.   Area of Influence
1.         The project road traverses mainly undeveloped areas in Central Sumatra,
passing through the provinces of West Sumatra and Djambi. The influence area, covering
about 26,000 km2, is unusually large because it contains many rivers which serve as a
feeder system. The inhabitants of the area in 1969 numbered about 660,000, or 4%
of the total in Sumatra.
B.   Climate, Ecology, and Soils
2.         The climate of the area is tropical (lowland humid), with annual temperature
ranges of 70-90 F. Rainfall (2,000-3,000 mm p.a.) is fairly well distributed; the drier
months (June to August) average 100-150 mm per month. The natural vegetation is a
mixed Dypterocarp forest containing several commercial species (predominantly Meranti).
Topographically, the area varies from hilly to flat; rivers and streams abound but run
shallow in the drier months.
3.         Latosol and lithosol soils cover the northwest and red-yellow podzolic the
southeast.  Natural soil fertility and productivity are rapidly deteriorating due to high
rainfall and constant leaching (typical when forests are cleared and crops cultivated without
artificial or organic animal manures). General ecological conditions favor most crops now
grown, particularly rice and rubber.
C.   Crops
4.         Agriculture is concentrated around villages. The main cash crop is Hevea
rubber and the main food crop is paddy (rice). In 1969, slab rubber accounted for about
87% of the cash crops and rice for about 75% of the food crops produced in the area.
Subsistence farming takes place for vegetables, cassava, corn, bananas, tree fruits, and
pineapples. Minor cash crops are coconuts, coffee, cloves, cinnamon, red peppers, tobacco,
tea, gambir, kapok, timber, and rattan. Agricultural production is lower than 30 years
ago because the deterioration of the national highway has resulted in poor communications,
high transport costs, and lack of access for Government extension services.



ANNEX C
Page 2
5.         The following sections discuss the potential rice, rubber, and timber production
with the proposed construction of the Sawatambang-Muarabungo highway. The data and
information available to the mission were limited and an analysis of output trends and
potentials for the minor crops was not possible.
(a)   Rice
6.         Rice is grown mostly in irrigated swampy areas, but also in upland or dry
areas which rely on rainwater. Farms are small, averaging I ha or less, and hand labor
prevails. Rice production has barely satisfied the needs of the area. Yields of dry stalk
paddy have been about 2 m tons/ha in irrigated areas and 1.5 m tons/ha in dry.
7.         Improved rice production is envisaged through better control and use of
irrigation and as a result of the technical assistance offered in the BIMAS program.' An
intensified program in the province of West Sumatra now is introducing fertilizers, pest
controls, improved seeds, and better husbandry. By 1985, 34,500 ha of irrigated land
and 32,700 ha of dry should produce 244,000 m tons of dry stalk paddy (four times
that estimated for 1969). Projected rice acreage and output with the proposed road
construction are as follows:
Irrigated                                  Dry
Total     Total           Gross          Total       Total          Gross
Year      Area      Output           Value*         Area       Output         Value
(ha)  (m ton 103)   (Rp million)         (ha)    (m ton 103)  (Rp million)
1975    25,600        64.46            935        14,900        25.65           372
1980    33,100        115.90          1,681       30,500        92.90         1,347
1985    34,500        133.50          1,935       32,700       110.70         1,604
* Gross value calculated at farm's gate price of Rp 14.5/kg dry stalk paddy.
1   BIMAS - the Government Program of Overall Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs (mainly
rice). Programs are starting in 1971 for 5,000-10,000 ha in West Sumatra.



ANNEX C
Page 3
(b)   Rubber
8.         Rubber is cultivated in the area on smallholdings averaging 3 ha. Development
of rubber potentials has been minimal. Unselected. and unimproved seeds have been planted
haphazardly. Yields have been obtained under crude, unclean, and unregulated conditions.
9.         The economic lives of the Hevea trees have been curtailed by irregular and
too frequent tapping cuts, unnecessarily heavy bark consumption, and wounding. The
estimated 59,000 ha of cultivated rubber trees have been yielding about 300-350 kg/ha
of dry processed rubber; three-quarters of the yield has been sold by the producer as
unprocessed slab rubber of the poorest quality with a high dirt content and often
deliberately adulterated. Value-added from existing output, with a first buyer's price of
Rp 50-55/kg, is estimated to be about Rp 10/kg.
10.        The main reasons for the poor state of the smallholder rubber are the growers'
lack of knowledge of better methods of cultivation and processing, and inadequate transport
facilities. Substantial improvements would result both in quantity and quality of rubber
from selected sections of existing smallholdings if smallholder extension services were
available. These services could assist in organizing group processing centers, provide credit
facilities, advise on better tapping methods as well as necessary reduction in tree numbers
and cover density, and introduce the use of fertilizers and yield stimulants. Lower transport
costs would also induce tapping of young, maturing trees planted in shifting cultivation,
but now neglected because of relative inaccessibility.'  However, in the long run, the
grower would have to rely on higher yielding trees grown in new plantings and replantings
for sustained higher output. Group processing factories (using mangles) and smokehouses
could also be introduced to improve the quality of slab rubber.
11.        With the proposed road construction and assuming that the required extension
services are made available, total rubber production from the area in 1988 is projected
to be about 53,000 m tons of dry rubber, an increase of 170% over the estimated 1969
production of about 20,000 m tons (2.5% of total rubber production in Indonesia). The
market value (f.o.b.), at about Rp 120/kg (US14/lb), would be Rp 6,300 million.
Projected rubber output with the proposed road construction is as follows:
A recent survey indicates that about 36,000 ha of untapped trees are in the influence area, with
expected annual dry rubber yields of 400-600 kg/ha.



ANNEX C
Page 4
(thousand tons dry rubber)
Types                               1969      1978      1983     1988
Old trees, not maintained                     20.0     19.0      16.0      12.0
Old trees, improved maintenance                          1.0      3.0       6.0
New tapping                                             2.5      11.0      23.5
Replanted trees                                         _         0.5       5.0
Newly planted trees                                               1.0       6.0
Total output                            20.0      22.5      31.5      52.5
Total area (thousand ha)                59.2      72.2      99.2    130.2
(c)  Timber
12.       The considerable forest resources of West Sumatra and Djambi provinces have
hardly been tapped so far, but commercial exploitation of marketable timbers is steadily
developing. Forest species surveys were made regularly in Djambi province during the sixties
and concessions are now  being made to foreign companies; four have commenced
operations, each with extraction rate targets of 100,000 m3 of logs a year. Results of
a forestry survey in the influence area show an average of about 40 m3/ha for marketable
commercial timber over 60 cm in diameter. Over a 60 year re-afforestation cycle, the
maximum annual rate of extraction is thus assumed to be 0.67 m3/ha. Details of projected
timber output after the proposed road construction are as follows:
Total Forest       Projected Timber Output
Area                 (m3 x   303)
Districts             (x 103 ha)        1975       1980      1985
Solok                            433            50        155      155
Sawahbunto-Sidjundjung           499          265        350       350
Muarabungo-Tebo                  840           205       410       410
Total                      1       782   520        915       915



ANNEX D
Page i
INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Benefits of the Sawatanrbang-Muarabungo National Highway
A.   Methodology
1.          Benefits attributable to the proposed road construction are the differences
between the area's projected value-added with and without the proposed road. However,
only changes in the value-added of those sectors where future production can be readily
projected have been included in the computations. The estimated benefits of the road,
therefore, underestimate the actual benefits.
2.          Two types of benefits have been estimated:
(a)   savings in transport costs of traffic on the existing road and traffic diverted
from rivers (traffic generated by the proposed road construction has not been
included); and
(b)   value-added of rubber, rice, and timber generated by the proposed road
construction.
The generated production of rubber and rice will require related investment in agricultural
infrastructure and processing facilities, and will involve additional costs, such as salaries,
administrative costs of extension workers, and migration expenses. These costs have been
included in the cost estimates in addition to the engineering, right-of-way, construction,
supervision, and maintenance costs of the highway.1
B.   Growth of Production and Traffic in the Influence Area Without the Proposed Road
3.          Only agricultural production in areas no more than 10 km from the proposed
road or from  rivers feeding the proposed road was assumed to be influenced by the
proposed construction.  Generated timber production was assumed over a larger area
This methodology implies that all cost components of the project yield the same rate of return.
This is true regardless of whether the project is viewed as a transport investment with the benefits
defined as value-added of generated production less costs of related agricultural investments, or
as a joint transport and agricultural investment.



ANNEX D
Page 2
because access road construction is normally undertaken by timber companies. In view
of the deteriorating transport conditions and the unsophisticated production methods, the
maximum feasible growth rates of both rubber and rice production were assumed to be
3% p.a., roughly the rate of population growth if the proposed construction were not
undertaken. Accordingly, traffic in the area not generated by the project road was also
assumed to grow 3% p.a.
C.   Transport Cost Savings
4.         General freight and passengers in the influence area are now transported
primarily by rivers in 30 ft boats fitted with outboard engines. Slab rubber is transported
in large bamboo rafts paddled downstream. Timber is made up into rafts and paddled
downstream by large crews. Because the journeys are long and involve large crews which
have difficulties returning home upstream, a great deal of unproductive labor is involved.
Transport costs are high, estimated at US 4/ton-km. Distances and time of travel are
considerably longer than they would be if the project road were available. Present traffic
on the project road consists of small volumes of agricultural and petroleum products.
Costs are US25/ton-km compared with US3 on a normal road in Indonesia.
5.         In particular, transport cost savings result primarily from  diverted traffic.
Freight presently transported on rivers between the influence area and the port of Djambi
is expected to be diverted to the road and to the port of Padang, thus re-establishing
the traffic pattern which existed before 1945. The Mission estimates that a total of 73,000
m tons would be diverted immediately after construction and a further 54,000 m tons
after a transition period of about five years. These estimates were computed on the
basis of the base year traffic estimates of the consultants' feasibility study. Transport
costs over the different sections of the project road are expected to range from
US2-3/ton-km.
D.   Generated Production of Rubber
6.         Rubber now produced is of inferior quality, with value-added estimated at
only Rp 10,000/m  ton of dry rubber equivalent.  With better tapping and processing
methods and improved transport facilities, higher quality output with a market price of
Rp 1 20,000/m ton (US 1 4/lb) is envisaged. This, however, will involve considerable
additional costs of fertilizer and yield stirnulants, capital costs of processing facilities, and
salaries and administrative costs of extension workers. Details of the estimated value-added
from generated production and associated costs in 1983 and 1988 (when the effects of
replanting and new planting will be evident) are as follows:



ANNEX D
Page 3
(Rp million)
1983         1988
Output (thousand tons dry rubber equivalent)                 31.5         52.5
Gross value (f.o.b.)                                        3,780        6,300
Less:   Costs of tapping, processing, transport,
replanting, and miscellaneous expenses              2,800       4,100
Value-added of total production                      980         2,200
Less:   Value-added of non-generated production              250          300
Value-added of generated production                  730         1,900
Associated Costs:
Fertilizers and stimulants                                 61          424
Capital costs of processing facilities
(annual equivalent)*                                     41           95
Salaries and administrative costs of
extension workers                                         3            5
* Associated investments in processing facilities are converted to annual equivalent costs.
E.   Generated Production of Rice
7.         The  increased  rice production  is expected  to  result primarily  from
rehabilitation of irrigation facilities and from availability of the BIMAS program (the
Government Program of Overall Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs).
Rehabilitation costs of irrigation facilities are assumed to be Rp 56,700/ha (US$150),
while Government estimates are used for the costs of the BIMAS program. Family labor
required above the rate of population growth was assumed to be met by families who
migrated with an assumed rate of one family per additional ha farmed. By 1985, a total
of 15,000 families was assumed to be in the influence area of the road, with migration
costs estimated at Rp 189,000/family (US$500).



ANNEX D
Page 4
8.         Detailed estimates of the value-added from generated production of rice and
related costs in 1980 and 1985 are as follows:
(Rp million)
1980         1985
Output (thousand tons dry stalk paddy)                         209           244
Gross value of output at farm's gate
price (14,500/m ton)                                      3,028         3,539
Less:   Costs of production (including BIMAS costs)           1,194        1,252
Value-added of total production                       1,834        2,287
Less:   Value-added of non-generated production                834           965
Value-added of generated production                   1,000        1,322
Associated Costs:
Migration*                                                  284          284
Irrigation rehabilitation*                                  136           136
* Constant annual flow of migrated families and areas of irrigated land rehabilitated
were assumed.
F.   Value-Added of Timber
9.         The average f.o.b. price of timber was assumed to be Rp 6,804/m3 (US$18).
Extraction costs given by producing companies in nearby provinces, averaging about Rp
4,536/m3 (US$ 12) are assumed to be valid also for future production in the area. These
costs include construction of access roads, depreciation of machinery and equipment, and
normal extraction and transport costs, but exclude royalties, taxes, and duties.



INDONESIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE CENTRAL AND PROVINCIAL WORKS ORGANIZATIONS
IN RELATION TO HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT                                                                       PROVINCiAL GOVERNMENTS
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND POWER
F_  SECRETARIAT
|                    |                       ________   g              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNOR
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF    DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF    DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF    DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF  DIRECTOR - GENERAL OF
IRRIGATION       HOUSING & BUILDING     HEAVY EQUIPMENT            HIGHWAYS         POWER AND ELECTRICITY
*               U                                            I~~~~~~~~~T      
DIRECTOR OF    DIRECTOR CF  DIRECTOR OF      DIRECTOR OF      DIRECTOR OF  DIRECTOR OF     l
CONSTRUCTION   ASPHALT STATE SOILS AND       MAINTENANCE    EQUIPMENT    PLANNING          l
ENTERPRISE    INVESTIGATIONS  AND             SUPPLY        AND
REHABI LITATIO N              SURVEY     
~~~~~PROVINCIAL ENGINEER
(LIAISON ON MATTERS RELATING TO         (Responsible for irrigation, roads
NATIONAL ROADS IN THE PROVINCE)        and buildings within province)
IBRD - 5647(R)
February 1971






Tl9t~_ IL 0f    . INDONESIA
cs PHILIPPINES    SECOND  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
BRUNto   5    8A    v
XMX eALAYA  1                                     ) r          <                                 Q                Secondi Highway Proiect Locotion
n~o e O         I   XL A   A                                      Y a
VUMPUR            L     A                                                                               0 too10   500  300   400 R00
MiLES
9 e Ss APORE
K                                                                                                                           0~~~~~~~~otoKAL              
PoIn*wgo ~ ~   ~     ~     (oreo
AWEST IRIAN
JAVA  IFORES                               IMM R
APRIL 1971                                                                                                                                                         IBRD-3406






Loti-aUdl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                                                       e                                                                                        ,I  2,1*  orb    h6A~
Iz I - V     ;    >         z e <              6 bHA                                    r  Il I  V            HfA l i66
'$2>                                             lw   1  Z-I Qg               '   >t<7~=<~  I;
> <  ;4     =        --      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~              ~    ~~~~~~~ 27W    \.>9;9J/t J)                                          _________
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2'8 d   f  ' >                       r                   9  ta'.-n9<76                                                                                1)MfO8d   AVMHOtH   GNO;)2
VIS3OGNI 



