CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 260 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 260 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
S
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1971, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "First Project" means the project as
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Highway Project)
of June 20, 1969 between the Borrower and the Association, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-four million dollars ($34,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,


﻿4
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1975, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing September 1, 1981, and ending
March 1, 2021, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1991, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound highway engineering, administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿5
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the detailed engineering
and construction supervision, and to carry out the studies, included in the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The general design standards for the national highway included in Part
A of the Project shall be those set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the highway construction included in the
Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on
the progress of the preparation of the program included in Part A (4) of the Project
and on the measures to be taken as part of such program.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower lindertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof tc the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably requcst concerning the Project, the expenditure


﻿6
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
pioceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that the highways (including
related bridges and other road structures) constructed under the Project or
rehabilitated under the First Project shall be adequately maintained and that all
necessary repairs thereof shall be made, all in accordance with sound highway
engineering and financial practices, and that the funds, equipment, workshop
facilities and other resources required for the purpose shall be provided promptly
as needed.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to take all steps required to improve the
maintenance of its national and provincial highways (including related bridges and
other road structures) other than those referred to in the preceding paragraph in
order to reach as soon as possible in respect of all such highways an adequate
level of maintenaace in accordance with sound highway engineering and financial
practices.
(c)   The Borrower undertakes that all maintenance and repair works on
its national and provincial highways (including related bridges and other road
structures) shall be adequately prepared, that the expenditure of the national funds
by its Provinces to finance such works shall be duly monitored and that upon
their completion all such works shall be submitted to a detailed inspection, all
in accordance with sour,d highway engineering, financial and accounting practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to collect and record, in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures, such information
concerning road traffic, road construction and road maintenance costs and other
data as shall be reasonably required for the formulation of a comprehensive
transport policy and for proper planning of maintenance, improvements and
extensions of its highway system. To that end, the Borrower shall inter alia carry
out an expanded program of traffic counting including selective counts by vehicle
type.


﻿7
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all measures required to introduce
as soon as practicable appropriate regulations limiting the dimensions and axle-loads
of vehicles to those consistent with the structural and geometric design standards
of its highway network and to ensure that such regulations are effectively enforced.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date August 25, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.04 and Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿9
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ AbdulMoeis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Civil works contracts          20,800,000           65% of total ex-
penditures (rep-
resenting the
estimated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
II.   Consultants' services           7,500,000           100% of foreign
for Parts A and B of                                expenditures
the Project
III.  Unallocated                     5,700,000
TOTAL         34,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿12
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be alloca-ed by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's ongoing highway program and
consists of the following parts:
Part A - Sawatarnbang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau National Highway
(1)   Completion    of    the     detailed   engineering   of    the
Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau national highway on Sumatra;
(2)   The construction in accordance with two-lane paved standards of the
Sawatambang-Muarabungo section of said highway;
(3)   A study to formulate a master plan for regional development aimed
at maximizing the developmental benefits of said highway and the
detailed engineering of feeder roads in that area if, after said study
and the presently ongoing feasibility study covering such feeder roads
has been completed, the Borrower and the Association agree that such
engineering is justified; and
(4)   The preparation of a program satisfactory to the Association for the
development of the area served by said highway based on the
recommendations emanating from the before-mentioned study and on
the before-mentioned master plan for regional development while
taking into account other demands on the Borrower's resources.
Part B - Padang-Medan National Highway
The detailed engineering of the Padang-Medan national highway on
Sumatra and related feeder roads if, after the presently ongoing
feasibility study covering the highway and feeder roads has been
completed, the Borrower and the Association agree that such
engineering is justified.
Part C - Road User Charges
A comprehensive national study of the levels and distribution of road
user charges.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 1975.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    The civil works shall be grouped into bid packages of sufficient value to
attract widespread international competition. Contractors shall be permitted to
undertake more than one of said groups only after suitable prequalification.
2.    Bidders are to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    Contracts shall be based on unit rates. Before bids are invited, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
4.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall promptly
inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
or with the Development Credit Agreement, and shall state the reasons for any
objections it may have.
5.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection,
or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure thereunder
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
6.    Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly
after its execution and prior to the subnission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Highway Design Standards
The Sawatambang-Muarabungo-Lubuklinggau national highway shall be
constructed in accordance with the design standards set out below:
Terrain
Flat      Rolling       Mountainous
Design Speed (km/h)                 80         60               40
Pavement Width (meters)            7.00       7.00            7.00
Shoulder Width (meters)            2.00       2.00            2.00
Maximum Grade (%)                    5          7                8
Surfacing Type                        Bituminous Surface Treatment
It shall be permitted to reduce the specified shoulder width to meet difficult
conditions. Pavement design shall be based on a 10 metric ton single axle-load
and structural designs shall be according to Regulation No. 12/1970 of the
Borrower's Directorate General of Highways.


