Docunmt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 986_
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2073-CM)
AUGUST 26, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Abbreviations and Acronyms
The Entity             s The Entity intended to be established through the
project, for the administration and operation of
Post and Telecommunications services
INTELCAM               : International Telecommunications Corporation of
Cameroon
ITU                    : International Telecommunication Union
P and T                : Posts and Telecommunications
UNDP                   : United Nations Development Program
UPU                    : Universal Postal Union



THE WORLD BANK                  FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Iite if DsttoCmtal
Opmati Evlution
August 26, 1991
MEM0RA4DUH TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Cameroon
Posts and Telecommunications Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2073-CM)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Cameroon - Posts and Telecommunications Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2073-CM)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the porformrnace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073-CH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pritface ............................ 1
Basic ...........         ................                        11
ref.1ichts                       . ....... ...... . . . .  . .. .....   *  .. vi
I.  INTRODUCTION                    1......         .... .... 
II.   PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ..... ....... ........    1
Project Objectives             ..................   ....... ... .. .    I
The Project        .        ................ *..............*..*...*   2
Covenants              .....      ......................................   2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................. .. ,*. * *    3
Loan Effectiveness and Project S           tart -Up .............    3
Project Revision .......................... .s.e. .... *.         4
Implementation Schedule ............... . ..............          4
Reporting .       .......................................... *4
Procurement .......................              ............. .  ..   4
Disbursements .................... 0.......................    4
Loan Allocation               ....... ..... . S                   5
Operations        .....        .......... .  *  .................... .   5
Performance of Consultants and Bor             rore r .............    S
IV.   OPERATING PERFORMANCE ........................ ....... .    6
V.    FINANCIAL PERFORHANCE ...............................    6
VI.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORHINNCE............ .............              6
VII.  BANK PERFORMANCE ...............             ........ t
Overall Contri bution ...         on..... ........................    7
Supervi       rvsion ........    ................................    7
Working Relationship                     ................................    7
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND FAILURE
TO ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES ...........................   8
Project Justification             ..............................   8
The Failure to Achieve the Objectlve..................   8
IX.   CONCLUSIONS ..................             .. ..... .e             9
Annex 1: Compliance wLth Covenants
ANNEX 1:  Compliance with Covenants                ,.....         ,     10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
nf thPir n ": I dUti^* It- einntants iv v tint r' oW *   a 1 s dl -' sd Withr t Wnr'd   r r  - ithnri *-n|



- i -
CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073-CM
PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
Preface
1.        This Project Completion Report (PCR) ;overs the Post and
Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project in Cameroon, supported by
Loan 2073-CM. The loan of $7.5 million to the United Republic of Cameroon,
was approved on December 17, 1981,.became effective on July 2, 1982, and
was closed on December 3., 1985, which was the original closing date.
2.        This report was prepared in the Africa Technical Department of
the World Bank on the basis of information available in the files.
3.        The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for v mnents, however, no
comments were received.



- ii -
CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMHUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet - Key ProJect Data
Appraisal           Actual or
Items                           Expectation      Current Estimate
Total project cost (t million)                 11.1                n.a.
Overrun (Z)                                     0.0                n.a.
Loan amount ($ million)                         7.5                7.5
Disbursed ($ million)                           7.5                2.0 i/
Cancelled (S million)                           0.0                5.5 I
Completion date                              12/31184          Not completed
Proportion completed by expected
completion date (Z)                         100.0               30.0
Time overrun (X)                                0.0                n.a.
Economic rate of return (I)                     n.a.               n.a.
Financial performance                       Improving             Poor
Institutional performance                   Improving             Poor
1/  As of February 137 1986, the date on which the account was closed
(the formal closing date was December 31, 1985).



- {it -
CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet - Other Project Data
Ori;inal            Actual or
Items                              Plan          Current Estimate
First mention in files                                             5/79
Government's application                                          11/79
Appraisal                                                      02116/81
Negotiation                                                    08/24/81
Board approval                                                 12/17/81
Loan Agreement date                                            03/19/82
Effectiveness date                        03/82                07/02/82
Closing date                           12/31/85                12/31/85
Borrower                                  United Republic of Cameroon
Executing agency                          Idem, through Ministry of P&T
Fiscal year of executing agency                          July 1-June 30
Commitment charge (Z)                                               3/4
Interest on outstanding loan amount (S)                          11-3/5



- iv -
CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073-CH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet - Mission Data
Month/      No. of       No. of        Man        Date of
Mission            Year        Veeks       persons      Weeks       Report
Sector            12/78           3            2          6         11/13/79
Preparatory        7/79           1            1          1             n.a.
Preparatory       12/79         1/2            2          1         02/14/80
Preparatory       04/80         1/2            1        12             n.a.
Preparatory       05/80           1            1          1             n.a.
Appraisal         02/81           2            1          2         03/11/81
Subtotal                                         11-1/2
Super'iision      05/82           1            2          2         06/04/82
Supervision       11/82           1            1          1         12/07/82
Supervision       05/83       1-1/2            1      1-1/2         07/08/83



CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet - Country Currency Exchange Rates
Exchange Rate
Year                                  US$ 1.00 -
1981                                     271.73 CFAF
1982                                     328 61
1983                                     381.06
1984                                     436.96
1985                                     449 26
Appraisal year average                   271.73
Intervening years average                382.21
Completion year average                  449.26
.1



- vi -
CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.        In 1979, the Government of the United Republic of Cameroon
requested the Bank's participation in improving the efficiency,
reliability, and quality of the country's postal and telecommunications
services. The request led to the Posts and Telecomlunications Technical
Assistance Project.
2.        In this framework, the Government was tot  (a) restructure the
organization providing the servicest (b) systematize and accelerate staff
training; (c) rehabilitate existing installations; and (d) prepare
appropriate development plans and expansion programs. The rehabilitation
element was implemented separately. and the three other items made up the
Project, which was to be executed with the assistance of cotasultants. Loan
2073-CM financrid the foreign exchange costs and the Government the local
costs.
3.        The sector reform component was to be carried out in two
stages: firstly, a review of the existing situation and the preparation of
recommendations and a plan of action; secondly, implementation of sector
reforms. The first stage was completed and the recomaendations submitted
on time to the Government, but they were not implemented because of
disagreement on the proposed measures, changes in personnel and also the
difficult country dialogue. Because training had to be adapted to tie
zequirements of the new organization, this component was also postponed.
On the planning and programing side, the consultants prepared ind
submitted network development plans, which needed further discussion before
becoming the basis of a possible Bank-supported investment project.  The
Project did not come to fruition. The Loan was closed with a cancellation
of about 73Z of the proceeds.
4.        Although the Project made a good start and had smooth progress
up to the the review of detailed recommendations, it soon lost its focus on
sector objectives, agreed during loan negotiations. Different factors may
have contributed to the failure to achieve project objectives. First, the
Bank had been somewhat optimistic in its estimate of the time required to
achieve true sector reform. Second, in concentrating exclusively on sector
operational, financial and management issues, the Project failed to address
policy issues, such as resource mobilization, including fiscal and tariff
policy to be applied to the sector, general procurement, personnel and
human resources development policies, which although may appear perpineral



- vii -
to the sector's technicalities, are nevertheless very important.
Addressing these policy i;sues would have required thorough discussions and
prior agreement with the Government before embarking in a large and
expensive consultancy contract. More generally, it was probably too
optimistic to expect the preparation and implementation of sector reforms
within a single project. Indeed, the first phase of project implementation
would have been more effective if carried out as part of preparation.
Third, frequent Government reshuffles resulted in priority changes and in
conflicting views as to the need and urgency of major sector
reorganization.
5.        The main lesson to be learned from this Project is that, before
embarking in the reorganization of the sector planning, operations and
finance, a consensus should be reached $n Government on all sector policy
issues, and that the new sector orientation should be first clearly
expressed in a 'Statement of Sector Policy" agreed between the Government
and the Bank. Such an approach requires time to thoroughly d-.scuss and
review these issues with all interested parties, outside the technical
ministry, to make sure that all potential benefits and consequences of the
various options available to improve the sector efficiency, are well
understood by rhose to be involved in the decision process, and that all
potential problems are well under control.



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073 - CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Cameroon's public postal and domestic telecomunications
services are provided by the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
(MPT). International telecommunications services are provided by a
State-owned corporation, called International Telecommunications
Corpo etion of Cameroon (INTELCAM). The Bank Loan 2073-CM was the first
loan to the po)st and telecommunications sector in Cameroon.
I I PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      In 1979, the Cameroonian Government, through MPT, declared its
intention to . qrove the efficiency of its telecommunications operations as
well as the quality of the services to the public, and invited the Bank and
the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) 1/ to carry out a
detailed diagnostic study of the sector and propose a plan of action. A
joint Bank/ITU sector mission visited the country in December 1978 and
reported in a Sector Memorandum (Report No. 2696-CM) the pressing need for
basic institutional sector reform, improved staff training and
comprehensive rehabilitation of the existing telecommunications
facilities.  The Government accepted the recommendations of the joint
mission and requested assistance from the Bank on the one hand for funding
institutional reform and a training component, and, on the other hand, for
the implementation of the network rehabilitation component, under
UNDP/Government financing 2/. ITU was to implement both components.
The resulting Bank-financed project was prepared by missions that visit-ed
Cameroon in July 1979 and May 1980, and was appraised in February 1981.
Negotiations took place in Washington from August 24-28, 1981. The Board
approved the $7.5 million loan to the United Republic of Cameroon on
December 17, 1981, and the Loan Agreement was signed on March 19, 1982.
1/ ITU - International Telecommunication Union, a United Nations
Organization, located in Geneva, Switzerland.
2/ UNDP - United Nations Development Programme.



-2-
Proiect Obiectives
2.02      The objectives of the Project were to prepare and implement
sector reforms, including the creation or an autonomous, commercially-
oriented operating entity in order to improve the operation and quality of
post and telecommunications services and to plan and prepare their
long-term development.
The Proiect
2.03      With the support of consultants, the Project was tos
(a) (i) assess the existing organization of the P and T
services and design a new legally and financially
autonomous public entity ('the Entity") for the
operation of the post and telecommunications services
on a commercial basis; and
(ii) establish, staff, and operate the Entity during
the initial phase, including on-the-job staff training
in management, accounting and administration;
b)   prepare an investment program for the Entity,
comprising a demand study, financial projections,
identification and preparation of particular
investment projects, and preparation of bidding
documents; and
Cc) upgrade the facilities at the Yaounde Post and
Telecommunications School, train instructors, and
award fellowships for studies abroad.
Covenants
2.04      The Loan Agreement provided the following particular covenants:
(a) the Entity was to assume responsibility for project
implementation and was to sign with the Government a
subsidiary loan agreement on the original loan
agreement terms. Until then, MPT was to implement the
Project on behalf of the Government;
(b)  the Government was to nominate an inter-ministerial
Project Steering Comuittee, whose members were to be
senior officials. It was to oversee all project
activities and be maintained until the Entity had been
established (the nomination of the Committee was a
condition of loan agreement effec iveness);



- 3 -
(c)  the Government was to hire consultarts, acceptable to
the Bank for the tasks (a) and (b) of para 2.03. For
the task (c), it was to engage the ITU and the
Universal Postal Union (UPU)i
(d) the Government was not to amend the terms of reference
or the conditions of employment of the consultants
without prior Bank agreement, and was from time to
time to exchange views with the Bank on the evaluation
and implementation of the recommendations and other
conclusions from the consultants and organizations
involved in the Project;
(e) the Government was to appoint qualified executives as
General Manager and Finance Manager. These
appointments were to take effect upon establishing the
Entity;
(f) the Government was to assign a qualified national as
counterpart to each consultant. The counterpart was
to gradually take over the job of the consultant with
whom he had been assigned to work;
(g) the Government was to prepare and furnish to the Bank a
Project Completion Report within six months after the
Closing Date of the Loan; and
Ch) the Government was to cause the Entity to have an
appropriate accounting system with separate accounts
for each of its principal branches of operations. The
accounts were to be audited by independent auditors,
and a copy of the audit report was to be sent to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year.
Details of compliance are given in Annex 1. In general, the Borrower
complied with the covenants which were related to the start-up of the
project and to the implementation of part (a) ti), but not with those
related to the creation of the Entity.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-Up
3.01      The Loan became effective on July 2, 1982, about a month later
than the date envisaged in the agreement. The consultants had started
their assignment about six months earlier; their contract was pre-financed
by the Borrower.



-4-
Prolect Revision
3.02      The Loan Agreement was not amended.
Implementation Schedule
3.03      The Project started on time with full Government support.
Consultant TORs were prepared and approved at an early stage of project
preparation and the consultants, who were selected and appointed before
negotiations, began their assignment in December 1981, prior to loan
effectiveness. The Project Director and the Steering Committee were also
appointed on schedule. The consultants submitted their report with
recommendations also on schedule by October 1982 (the preparation of an
opening balance sheet, which they had not originally included--see para
3.09--took a few months extra, but this did not influence the overall
situation). The Steering Committee reviewed the consultants' report and
although it recommended implementation of the reforms as proposed, the
Government never made a decision to proceed. This precluded the start-up
of the implementation phase of the Project (Part A (ii)], as well as the
training component (Part C) (para 2.03 (c)]. The consultant's work on the
balance sheet was the last activity under the Project.
Reporting
3.04      No explicit requirement for periodic progress reports was
established. However, the Bank receivea the consultants' report,
conclusions and recommendations as well as the Steering Committee report
and recommendations to the Government. A Project Completion Report was
covenanted [para 2.04 (g)], but has never been issued, in spite of repeated
requests.
Procurement
3.05      The consultants were selected and hired in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. No goods were procured under the Project.
Disbursements
3.06      The estimated and actual cumulative disbursements of the Loan
are as follows:
Table 3.1: Cumulative Disbursements
Appraisal
Bank          Estimates            Actuals                Actuals as Z
Fiscal Year      ($ million)         (S million)         Appraisal Estimates
1982            2.00                 0.00                        0
1983            4.17                 1.91                      46
1984            5.99                 2.01                      34
1985            6.91                 2.01                      29
1986            7.50                 2.01                      27



- 5-
The original Closing Date, which was December 31, 1985, was not extended,
but the loan *ccounts remained open until February 13, 1986, when the
undisbursed amount of USS 5,487,528 was cancelled.
Loan Allocation
3.07      The original and final allocations of loan proceeds ares
Table 3.2s Loan Allocation
Category                  Original                    Final
1.  Consultants' services                 4,730                      2,012
2.  Equipment and vehicles                  880                          0
S. Fellowships for
training abroad                         SOO                          0
4.  Unallocated                           1,590                          0
-   Cancelled                                 -                      5,488
Total                   7,500                      7,500
Operations
3.08      Studies were carried out by consultants in collaboration with
Cameroonian counterparts. The Steering Committee reviewed the consultants'
report and recomvended the creation of the Entity to the Government along
the lines proposed. Since the Project was not implemented, there is no
further information available.
Performance of Consultants and Borrower
3.09      In general, the consultants performed in accordance with their
temss of reference and respected agreed timetables. However, although the
individual consultants had the professional expertise required to fulfill
their task, as a group, they failed to pass the message correctly to their
counterparts and particularly to present solutions in a practical way
acceptable in the Cameroonian contest. Even after a number of discussions
on the subject, the consultants' report failed to convince the authorities
to proceed with reforms as ttie ramifications of implementation seemed too
complex and may have resulted in unacceptable political repercussions. A
contract interpretation problem occurred: the consultants maintained that
they had not foreseen the preparation of an opening balance sheet for the
Entity as part of their assignment. The matter was discussed at a meeting
in Washington in December 1982, following which, the consultants completed
their assignment with Cameroonian staff, for an additional cost of three
manmonths.
3.10      The Borrower's performance was excellent during project
preparation and remained satisfactory during the first phase of the
Project. Cameroonian counterparts were assigned as required and worked
closely with the consultants. The Steering Committee also performed its
task. However, the reluctance of Government officials in charge of the
sector to address the major reform issues and discuss them with the Bank



-6-
before loan closing precluded further project implementation.  At that
time, the overall country dialogue with Cameroon was difficult at best and
the Government was conservative in not wishing to implement change which
risked upsetting the delicate political balance.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.01      Because of the character of this Project, no indicators of
operating performance were discussed and agreed upon during project
preparation, and because the Project never attained its objectives, no data
were made available on the actual status of the overall P and T operating
performance during the project period. However, the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the telecommunications equipment and plant carried out as a
joint project activity with ITU assistance under UNDP/Government financing
during the period 1979-82 (para.2.01), produced substantial improvements in
the reliability and quality of the telephone and telex services in Cameroon
and clearly demonstrated that skilled Cameroonian engineers and technicians
can be motivated to perform their duties satisfactorily when they are given
the tools, the spares, appropriate on the job training and a sound working
environment (see Supervision Report dated July 8, 1983). Despite the
recommendations of the Cameroonian Project Director that it continue, the
network rehabilitation unit was dissolved toward the end of 1982.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      For the same reasons as for the operating performance,
(Chapter IV) no data were made available on the status of the financial
performance of the P and T administration. According to information in the
files, the financial situation of both the postal and the
telecommunications services remained very weak. One of the major purposes
of the proposed sector reform was the establishment of a commercially-
oriented, financially-autonomous Entity with management accountable for
financial performance. This objective was not met.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      Administration of the Cameroonian P and T services was neither
efficient enough to provide reliable and satisfactory postal and
telecommunications services nor to operate and maintain the equipment and
plant. It was, therefore, unable to plan and implement any significant
development program (see Sector Memorandum, Report No. 2696-CM, and various
comnunications from the Government available in the files). The proposed
sector reform was aimed at correcting these major deficiencies to improve
the overall institutional performance but unfortunately, they were not
carried out.



- 7 -
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
Overall Contri stion
7.01      By its involvement in sector analysis, its participation in
project preparation, and its financing of the studies carried out under the
Project, the Bank contributed to a better understanding of the actual
situation of the sector in Cameroon. The studies emphasized the sector's
potential for substantial improvement in quality and reliability of
service. The studies also emphasized the sector's potential profitability,
as well as its potential for sustained development outside the Government
budget, when the services and infrastructure are provided, operated and
developed by a commercially-oriented, autonomous entity.
Supervision
7.02        Three supervision missions visited the country during the
first 24 month period of project implementation (starting in December 1981,
when the consultants began their assignment in the field). The first
mission came to Cameroon in May 1982, two months after Loan signature
(para. 2.01). This was the only mission during the period of the
consultants' actual work with information gathering and analysis and with
drafting of recommendations. A second mission was sent out in November
1982, before the Steering Committee had completed its review of the
consultants' report and issued its recommendations to the Government. The
third mission visited Cameroon in May 1983 to discuss a plan of action for
implementation. However, the Bank's dialogue with Government was difficult
and it became evident that the new Government and the newly-appointed
sector authorities had other priorities and were not ready to pursue the
original project objectives. Two more missions were proposed by the Bank,
for November 1983 and April 1984, but not agreed to by the Government.
Working Relationship
7.03      The working relationship and cooperation between the Bank and
the Government was excellent during project preparation and during the
initial phase. The third supervision mission, however, was unable to have a
constructive dialogue (para. 7.02), because, on the one hand, the mission
insisted on pursuing project implementation as originally designed and, on
the other hand, the Government was reluctant to address major sector
issues. There were several changes in key governmental officials during
the project period. The Cameroonian Project Director was elected to an
international position and left the country shortly after the consultants
had submitted their recommendations. Other officials, who were previously
active in pursuing the project's objectives, were nominated to other
Ministries, or to other responsibilities. The Minister in charge of MPT
when the implementation phase was to be discussed with the Bank, let it be
understood that the Government had other priorities and expressed a
different opinion from his predecessor regarding the need and urgency for
sector reforms. His official position was also in line with a declaration
of the Presidency at the time that no new parastatals should be created.
Following official Government statements opposing the project's major



objectives, all project supervision activities were suspended. Two further
attempts to re-open the dialogue, in 1983 and 1984, were unsuccessful
(para. 7.02).
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND FAILURE TO ACHIEVE OBJECTIVES
Prolect Justification
8.01      In 1979, when the Government first approached the Bank and ITU
for assistance in improving the sector's efficiency, Cameroon was one of
the few remaining countries in Sub-Sahara Africa where domestic
teleconmunications services were still operated by a Department of the
Government. Despite the large amount of resources invested in the domestic
telecommunications network, the sector was unable to provide reliable and
satisfactory service.  The course of action agreed with the Government at
the origin of the Project was fully justified, although in retrospect it
was probably optimistic to expect preparation and implementation of a
program of radical sectoral reforms in a single project.
8.02      Consultants under the Project provided the Government with
detailed recommendations for the setting up of the Entity. Their report
gives a detailed and balanced picture of the operational, financial, and
managerial situation of the administration of the services in 1982, and the
recommendations provide a fair basis for the establishment of an efficient
commercially-oriented autonomous entity in line with initial project
objectives. The consultant report also provides a services development
plan, the objectives and composition of which responded reasonably to the
country's need, although the proposed phasing of the investment program
would have required further review and discussion with the Bank. These
first results would have been worthwhile if the project objectives had been
pursued. It is unfortunate that most of the efforts made and resources and
time spent have been wasted.
The Failure to Achieve Oblectives
8.03       Other factors have contributed to the failure to complete the
Project. First, satisfied with the general statement of intent from the
Prime Minister, the Bank prepared the project for addressing exclusively
the sector's operational, financial and management issues without
considering other factors, such as resource mobilization to be applied to
the sector, including fiscal and tariff policies, general procurement
policy, personnel and human resources development policies. These areas
were the exclusive domain of other Ministries, some of them more powerful
than the technical Ministry in charge of communications. In retrospect,
failure to address or. time those issues peripheral to the sector's
technicalities but nevertheless very important for the Government, and to
direct the dialogue toward their resolution before embarking in a large and
expensive consultancy contract, may have given arguments to those opposed
to sector reform. Moreover, the Government was clearly not prepared to
implement the major institutional changes required to make posts and
telecommunications operations autonomous. Second, frequent governmental



- 9 -
reshuffles resulted in priority changpe and in conflicting views as to the
need and urgency of a major reorgpnization of the P and T sector.
8.04        After refusing two earlier attempts by the Bank, in 1983 and
1984, to re-open the dialogue (para 7.02), the Governmunt indlcated in 1985
its desire to proceed with project implementation and to continue working
with the Bank. However, the Government's proposal for an *xtiemely modest
reform, which consisted of endowing MPT with a so-called  budget anneze,
was too remote from the original project objectives. The Bank was
unwilling to extend the Project on that basis and the Loan was thus closed
and the unused balance cancelled.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01      The main lesson to be learned from this Project is that, before
embarking in the reorganization of the sector planning, operations and
finance, a consensus should be reached in Government on all sector policy
issues. Furthermore, it would have been preferable if the legal framework
of the Entity had been decided before Board Presentation and that the new
sector orientation had been first clearly expressed in a "Statement of
Sector Policy agreed between the Government and the Bank. Such an
approach requires tile to thoroughly discuss and review these issues with
all interested parties, outside the technical ministry, to make sure that
all potential benefits and consequences of the various options available to
improve the sector efficiency, are well understood by those to be involved
in the decision process, and that all potential problems are well under
control.



- 10 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
CAM'iROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2073-CM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Compliance with Covenants
Agreement                      Covenant                         Status
Section
3.01 (a)     Ministry of P and T to carry out project         Complied
until the Entity is established.
3.01 (b)     Borrower to appoint and maintain a Steering   Complied
Committee.
3.01 (c),(d) Borrower to enter into subsidiary loan
agreement with the Entity and exercise its
rights under that agreement.
3.02 (a)     Employment of consultants satisfactory to        Complied
the Bank for parts A and B of project.
(b)     Employment of ITU and UPU for part C of
project.
3.03 (a),(b) Borrower to facilitate the work of the           Complied
consultants and organizations and not to        in part
change their terms of reference.
3.04         Borrower to exchange views with the Bank         Not complied
from time to time on the evaluation of
reports and conclusions of the consultants
and organizations.
3.05         Borrower to appoint qualified senior             */
executives upon establishment of the Entity.
3.06         Borrower to assign qualified counterparts.    Complied
3.07         Borrower to select suitable staff for            */
fellowships under part C of project.



- 1 1 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Agreement                      Covenant                         Status
Section
3.09 (a)     Borrower to furnish the Bank with reports,    Complied
contract documents, schedules, and other        initially
relevant project information.                   but not
thereafter
3.09 (d)     Borrower to prepare and furnish to Bank a        Not complied
Completion Report within six months of
loan closing date.
4.02         Borrower to maintain project records.            Complied
4.03 (a)     Borrower to cause Entity to have an              */
appropriate accounting system.
4.03 (b)     Entity's accounts to be audited by external   */
auditors acceptable to Bank, and copy of
audit report be furnished to Bank within
six months of end of fiscal year.
4.04         Until the Entity can take over, the              Not complied
Hinistry of P and T to continue to carry out
rehabilitation work on telecommunications
installations.
4.05         Borrower to cause the training facilities,    */
covered by part C of project, to be
operated appropriately and efficiently.
Note: *T he Entity was not established and, thus, the covenants
relating to it were not applicable. Among these is also
the training, which should be adapted to the needs of the
Entity.



