Document of
The World Bank                                     IF%
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3 108-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMERON
FOR A
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 12, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1               =    CFAF 270 a/
CFAF 1 million    =    US$3,704
ABBREVIATIONS
INTELCAM   -   Societe Internationale des Telecommunications du
Cameroun
ITU        -   International Telecommunications Union
NRU        -   Network Rehabilitation Unit
P&T        -   Post and Telecommunications
UN         -   United Nations
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Program
UPU        -   Universal Postal Union
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
a/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CANEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      United Republic of Cameroon.
Beneficiary:   The Post and Telecommunications (P&T) entity to be established
under the proposed project.
Amount:        US$7.5 million.
Terms:         20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at 11.6 percent
interest p.a.
Relending
Terms:       Same as charged by the Bank to the Government.
Description:   The proposed project aims at reorganizing and strengthening
the institution responsible for post and telecommunications
services as a first step towards (1) improvement of existing
servfces and of the operating entity's financial situation, as
well as (2) sound long-term development of the two sectors. The
project would include the following components:
(a) establishment of a new P&T entity with legal and financial
autonomy;
(b) preparation of an investment program for the P&T sectors;
and
(c) improvement of technical training at the P&T school in
Yaounde; fellowships for training abroad of P&T staff.
Benefits and   Project benefits include better service, reduced operating
Risks:       costs, increases in revenues and improved billing and collec-
tion. The main risks are those inherent in all technical
assistance projects, particularly the effectiveness and
experience of expatriate technical assistants to be selected.
Appropriate steps have been taken to reduce these risks by
identifying the consultants during project preparation, and
by stipulating as a condition of Loan effectiveness the appoint-
ment of a Steering Committee chaired by the P&T Minister to
oversee the work of the consultants and ensure that their
recommendations are acted upon.
Estimated costs:
The cost estimate for the proposed project--which would be
exempt from local taxes and import duties--is summarized
below.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



USa million
Local    Foreign    Total
1.   Study and outline of the
new organization
Consulting services                0.22       0.81       1.03
Operating expenses                 0.19        -         0.19
0.41       0.81       1.22
2.   Setting up of the new organization
Consulting services                0.58       2.17       2.75
Operating iexpenses                0.59        -         0.59
1.17       2.17       3.34
3.   Investment Program
Consulting services                0.18       0.67       0.85
Operating expenses                 0.16        -         0.16
0.34       0.67       1.0i
4.   P&T School
Consulting services                0.25       1.09       1.34
Operating expenses                 0.33        -         0.33
School equipment                   0.19       0.72       0.91
0.77       1.81       2.58
5.   Miscellaneous
Vehicles & office equipment        0.05       0.15       0.20
Scholarships                         --       0.30       0.30
0.05       0.45       0.50
Base Cost                           2.74       5.90       8.65
6.   Contingencies
Price                              0.62       1.00       1.62
Physical                           0.28       0.59       0.87
Total                              3.59       7.50      11.14
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                       -         7.5        7.5
Government                    3.6          -         3.6
Total                          3.6        7.5       11.1
Estimated Disbursements:
FY82     FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86
Annual               2.00      2.17      1.82     0.92      0.59
Cumulative          2.00      4.17      5.99      6.91      7.50
Economic Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Maps:  IBRD 14270, 14271 and 14272



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
POST AND TELECOMIMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the United Republic of Cameroon equivalent to US$7.5 million to help
finance a Post and Telecommunications (P&T) Technical Assistance Project.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 11.6 percent p.a. It would be relent to the P&T entity to be
established under the proposed project, on the same terms and conditions
as charged by the Bank to the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon Economic MemorandumD'
(No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30, 1980.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diversified countries, with a wide
range of climatic zones, ecological conditions, population densities, ethnic
groups and traditional cultures. Cameroon was a federation from the time it
gained independence, in 1960, until the United Republic, which unified the
anglophone western and francophone eastern parts of the country, was formed in
1972. The Government has concentrated on fostering a sense of national unity
among the different parts of the country: the sparsely populated eastern
region, the relatively small but densely populated western part of the country,
the sahelian zone in the north, with Muslim traditions, and the southern
tropical regions.
4.        Cameroorn has a population of 8.3 million (1979) and covers an area
of 475,000 km2.  Its main opportunities for development lie in the expansion
of agricultural, livestock, and forestry production; the exploitation of
energy and mineral resources; and the processing of agricultural, forestry
and mineral products for domestic consumption and export. Soils and climatic
conditions permit cultivation of a wide range of crops, and the southeast
contains large untapped timber resources. The north holds potential for live-
stock development. Cameroon became an oil producer in 1978 and is expected to
export 3.5 million tons of crude petroleum in 1981. Additional oil production
potential exists and the country has substantial unexploited gas, hydroelectric
and mineral resources. Trade, transport and transit services and construction
are other important economic activities. Cameroon's main economic centers
are separated by large areas of low population density and the country's port
facilities and transport network also serve landlocked Chad and the Gentral



-2-
African Republic.  A large port and an adequate trunk transportation system
are therefore essential for promotirig agriculture, f-orestry and industry, and
for strengthening internal communications and the country-s role as a regional
trade center. With the growth of industry, transportation, conistruction and
services, Cameroon is becoming increasingly urbanized.  aibout 30 percent of
the population now live in towns, mainly in Douala, the major port arid in-
dustrial center, and Yaounde, the capital.
5.        CameroDon subscribes to a philosophy of planned liberalism, and
the country s economic development has been pursued within a quinquennial
investment planning framework.  The Fourth 5-year Plan period eased in June
1981, and work on the Fifth Plan is now largely completed.  Cameroon's develop-
ment and macro-economic policies have been rather cautious, with the result
that while growth has not been exceptionally rapid, the country has enjoyec
noteworthy economic stability.
6.        Growth.  Over the  past fifteen years Cameroon has experienced an
acceleration ln rates of output and population growth.  The real GDP growth
rate during the Second Plan Period (1966-71) averaged 4.2 percent; in the
Third (1971-76), it rose to 4.5 percent; and in the Fourth (1976-81), it
is estimated provisionally at 7.1 percent.  Population growth in the three
periods was about 1.8, 1.9 and 2.3 percent a year.  Per capita GNP rose
between 1966 and 1980 at an annual rate of about 3.1 percent.
7.        Within the overall pattern of accelerating growth, tnere was some
unevenness in the performance of key productive sectors from one plannins
period to another.  During the Third Plan in particular, both agriculture
and manufacturing experienced periods of slowdown although services grew
very stronglyc Contributing to the agricultural slowdown were decreases in
the output of two major export crops--cocoa and arabica coffee--related Lo
declines in producer prices compared with food prices, and to the termination
of a fertilizer subsidy program for arabica coffee. Forestry output dropped
towards the end of the period because of reduced Western European demand
and some transpo:rtation bottlenecks. Growth of the manufacturing ani mining
sector slowed as a result of the declining moment-um of import substitution
activities  which had produced rapid iricreases in manufacturing output durin6
the Second Plan years, and deteriorating terms of trade.  The acceleratiol
in growth during the Fourth Plan was helped by rapidly rising construction
output. reflecting sharply higher levels of investment, by recovery in cocoa
and robusta coffee production, as farmers responded to higher producer
prices, and by recovery in forestry output. Since 1978, the start-up of
oil production has contributed significantly to aggregate growth.
8.        Investment and Savings.  Underlying the longer term rise in GDP
growth have been rising proportions of investment. The investment/GDP ratio
averaged over 15 percent during the Second Plan, about 19 percent durin6 the
Third and close to 24 percent during 1976-80. Investment priorities have
shifted over time. The First Plan emphasized directly productive projects (53
percent), and the Second, infrastructure and social projects (58 percent).
DuriLg 1976-80, directly productive activities (63 percent) were again favored,
with heavy emphasis on manufacturing, mining and energy (52 percent).



3-
9.        Despite the rising investment/GDP ratios, the mobilization of
domestic savings more than kept pace, due largely to increased public savings.
Gross domestic savings rose from about 84 percent of total investment under
the Second and Third plans to about 87 percent during 1976-79. After allowing
for net factor service and current transfers and the amortization of foreign
medium- and long-term loans, reliance on foreign financing fell from about 33
percent of total investment during the Second Plan to about 30 percent during
1976-79.
10.       Public Finance.  Budgetary revenues amounted to about 15 percent
of GDP during the Second and Third Plan, and increased slightly during
1976-79. Public savings after debt service declined from about 39 percent
of total public investment during the First Plan to about 36 percent during
the Second; however, it rebounded to 55 percent during 1976-79, thanks to
substantial contributions from the agricultural export stabilization runds.
11.       Balance of Payments.  During previous plans, the balance of payments
did not pose particular problems, apart from some short-term deterioration
during the 1974-76 period. In 1977-80, exports rose substantially (at an
average annual rate of 26 percent) but imports also increased (at an average
annual rate of 20 percent) because of more rapid economic growth ana hig6ter
investment. International reserves were rebuilt in 1976-80, in part by the
use of IMF credits, rising in 1980 to a gross level equivalent to about seven
weeks of imports and to a net level of about five weeks. This was a low level
by international standards although still acceptable considering Cameroon's
membership in the Central African Monetary Union.
Development Prospects and Issues
12.       Short- and Medium-term Developments.  Oil production is bringing
with it significant changes in the Cameroonian economy. Prior to the advent
of oil, Cameroon was dependent on the export of agricultural products for the
bulk (72 percent in 1978) of its export earnings. Cocoa and coffee alone
accounted for 53 percent of the value of 1978 exports. lfowever, oil exports,
which represented about 1 percent of total exports in 1977/78, are estimated
to have risen to about 28 percent in 1979/80, with the share of agricultural
products dropping to close to 50 percent. Exports of oil are estimated to
have continued to rise sharply in 1980/81, further reducing the proportional
importance of agricultural exports, and this trend is expected to persist for
at least the next two years.
*        13.        The outlook for agricultural and industrial growth in absolute terms
during 1980-86 is still quite favorable. Agricultural growth expectations are
based oni some increase in cocoa output above 110,000 tons; recovery of robusta
coffee; continuing expansion for arabica coffee; increased production of most
food and other crops, as well as livestock; and expansion of forestry produc-
tion. Growth of industrial and mining production is expected to result from
existing and expanded manufacturing facilities (particularly those for food,
beverages and construction materials), from some new industrial projects
and from new mining ventures. A further significant impact on the structure
of the economy, notably a relative expansion of the construction and services



- 4 -
sectors  is expected from the Fifth Development Plan investment program
(1981-86). Preliminary indications are that the investment/GDP ratio will
aga.n. increase wuder the Fifth Plan, which is expected to emphasize support
to agriculture and expansion of the supply of technical and professional
manpower, and to allow for some large-scale industrial projects.
14.       Longer-Term Developments.  Cameroon's promising potential in areas
outside agriculture implies a longer-term shift towards a somewhat more
diversified industrial base.  Agriculture will play a critical but less
dominant role, and a shift in priorities to'wards increased food production for
the growing -urban population appears probable.  The rate at which agricultuiral
productivity increases will be a crucial determinant of the pace of economtc
development and will call for an appropriate mix of public intervention and
policy meastures aimed at stimulating private initiative.
External Borrow:ing and Creditworthiness
15.       Total debt outstanding and disbursed rose from US$515 million in
1976 to US$1.6 billion at the end of 1979, and is expected to exceed US$2
billion in 1981. Debt service payments rose from US$39 million in 1976 to
US$126 million in 1979, while exports increased from US$715 million to more
than US$1.3 billion during the same period.  Notwithstanding a hardeingc
average loan terms in the 1970s, Cameroon's debt service ratio was sti ll 'ess
than 10 percent at the end of 1979, up from 5-1/2 percent in the mid-1970sc
It is projected to peak at about 14 percent in 1982 and to stay i-n the 12 to
14 percent range throughout the remainder of the decade. This projection
assumes that loans contracted during 1982-86 will be slightly above the
average annual anounts contracted in 1977-81, and that external assistance
programs will continue to f-ollow recent trends. Borrowing on non-concess-onary
terms would account for about two-thirds of total new commitments, and average
terms would harden during the period. Because of higher debt service payments,
projected net disbursements would be less than in the past but, with Cameroon-s
favorable export and savings prospects, would be sufficient to allow an invest-
ment rate of above 25 percent of GDP, as well as the restoration of a strong
foreign reserve position.
16.       Based on these considerations, its strong growth, its substantial
resource development potential, and the Government's ability to utilize its
resources to further strengthen and diversify the economy, it is proposed that
Cameroon shortly be phased out of IDA. However, in view of the fact that it is
still, despite its improved prospects, a low-middle income country, it is
planned to continuie with preparations of an IDA credit for a first urban proiect
later this fiscal year.  This would be the last IDA operation in the countrJJ!
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAiyEROON
17.       Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon as of September 1, 1981 amiounLed
to US$590.9 million and covered 36 Drojects; 17 in agriculture, 11 in trau;.-
portation, 3 in education, 2 in public utilities, 2 small- and medium-scale



enterprise projects and I technical assistance project.  Transport accounts
for the largest share (45 percent) of these commitments, followed by agricul-
ture (41 percent). IFC has invested in five enterprises, with total net loan
and equity commitmento of US$12.7 million. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of SeptemDer 1, 1981,
including notes on the execution of ongoing projects.  Although delays and
setbazks have occasionally been encountered in implementation, the Gov.ernment
has consistently shown willingriess to collaborate with the Bank in finding
solutions to such problems.
18.       The Bank-s initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support
the Government-s development efforts in three main directions:  (i) streng-
thening and extending the road and rail trunk systems; (ii) raising agricul-
tural output and net exports, with emphasis on the establishment of modern
industrial plantations, and (iii) providing assistance to education.  Through
1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank lending was concentrated
entirely in the transport, agriculture and education sectors.
19.       Since 1975, it has become more diversified, with new types of
projects in transport and agriculture and an extension to cover SME and
technical assistance projects. Within the transport sector, the first three
highways projects were designed to help complete the basic trunk system
connecting the more remote parts of the country to the central north-south
axis. A feeder roads project in 1978 helped finance priority needs and
establish a construction and planning capability, while the Fourth Highway
Project in 1979 concentrates on road maintenance and rehabilitation. A forth-
coming Fifth Highway Project, in which the Bank would be joined by several
cofinanciers, would establish a good quality all-weather road link between
Douala and Yaounde. The first three railway projects were designed to finance
urgently needed infrastructure improvements, and the fourth (FY80), will
improve railway productivity by helping finance a marshalling yard, aainte-
nance facilities, equipment and technical assistance. A planned Third Ports
Project would follow earlier projects designed to improve the capacity and
efficiency of the port of Douala and would mainly comprise an extension of
an industrial berth for clinker handling and the transfer of banana ioading
to general cargo facilities. The proposed Post and Telecommunications
Technical Assistance project would improve the efficiency and reliability
of the communications networks.
20.       In the agricultural sector, through 1975, the Bank helped finance
three industrial plantations in oil palm and rubber, a smallholder rice
project, a livestock project, and a cocoa project near Yaounde. Since then,
in addition to follow-up industrial plantation, smallholder rice and livestock
projects, the Bank has supported four rural development projects in various
regions. These projects included studies, trial activities, agronomic and
technological elements to improve agricultural productivity. The ongoing
Rural Development Fund Project is designed to help the Government establish
machinery for processing and implementing small-scale rural sub-pro2ects,
initially in the poorer northern regions. A first forestry project is
scheduled for this fiscal year.



- 6-
21.       The first two education projects were directed towards expanain-
secordary education, training primary school teachers, and estaolishini
technical schools. A third, approved in 1976, emphasized rural education and
training.  While all Bank projects include training, technical assistance and
ott-er provisionis to strengthen institutions and improve sector pooicies, the
major thrust of- the Bank-s free standing technicai assistance program has been
to strengthen the central technical ministries and executing ageDcies.  The
First Technical Cooperation Project, approved in 19779 supported Government
services inT several key ministries involved in investment plan..ing, policy
analysis and project processing.  The Second Prolect has just been si6ned and
is designed to strengthen and extend the ongoing program and improve the
Government s macro-economic and financial analysis and management.
22.       The First and Second Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise <SMEE)
Projects, approved in 1975 and 1980 respectively, focus mainly on developing
local ertrepreneurship.  A First Water Supply Project established initial
netn:orks in Douala and Yaounde and the Second will help finance water distri-
bution irn 13 secondary centers and extend the Douala and Yaounde systems
to poorer areas, A First Urban Project, scheduled for FY82, would upgrade
1ow4 Income settlements and develop sites and services in Yaounde and Douala.
23.       For the future, projects may be expected in agriculture, to consoli-
date existing tree crop operations, extend rural development efforts and
strengthen agricultural research, and to expand and rehabilitate transport
ane commurnications infrastructure.  Further education and technical assistance
projects may be anticipated, as well as further RT!E, urban and water supply/
severage projects. The Bank has carried out sector studies in forestry,
energy, industry and telecommunications, and additional projects in these
areas have already been tentatively identified. Thus, the trend towards
further sectoral diversification of Bank lending, reflecting the growing
complexitv ol Cameroon's development needs, will continue.
24.       In addition to such lending operations, it is proposea that tne
Bank expand its program of economic and sector work, develop its proc, ram of
technical assistance and strengthen and broaden its economic dialogue with
the Government.  In relation to short- to medium-term issues, this dialogue
woild address the pace, pattern and conditions of oil and gas development;
the size and composition of the investment program; private versus public
sector activities; technical, professional and other skilled manpower con-
straints. trainirng needs; improvements in the governmental administrative
apparatus; development priorities for export and food crops; potential Dottle-
necKs in transport and communications; the adequacy of intermediate 6oods
supplies; and the control of potentially disruptive infrlationary pressures.
25.       With regard to longer-term issues, the dialogue would center on
basic agricultural (especially food crop) and industrial development policies.
Factors that complicate the agricultural development effort are the dispersion
of the main economic and population centers; regional and institutional
dive-rsity  the weakness of administrative struct-ures; the competition between
exo&rt a-d food crops for the dwindling supply of agricultural labor and
limi-ed land i-n some parts of the country; and the limited availability of



-*
skilled agricultural agents and administrators. In industry, the Government
has moved under recent Plans to channel more financial resources for investment
directly through the public sector, while continuing the indirect support to
private initiative via tax incentives and other measures that was providea for
many years previously. The Bank has recently completed a comprehensive stuay
of industrialization and the system of incentives, which nas been discussed
with the Government.  Difficulties with the present structure of industrial
tariffs, tax concessions and credit policies are that it has encouraged
industrial concentration in import-substitution (as opposed to export-oriented)
activities; and the growth of large, modern, expatriate-dominated industrial
corporations rather than of small- and medium-scale indigenous enterprises.
We propose to continue our dialogue with the Government on these matters with
regard to the objectives, economic performance and accountability of public
enterprises.
Bank's Role in Relation to That of Other Donors
26.       Overall disbursements of official development assistance to Cameroon
amounted to about US$45 million a year during the second half of the 1960s,
mostly in the form of grants. France provided most of the assistance, wnich
was concentrated in infrastructure and some productive sectors. EDF and Elb
directed most of their assistance to agriculture and infrastructure. biiank ana
IDA disbursements were small during this period. In the 1970s, foreign aid
has increased to about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in the form
of grants.  Bark and IDA financing amounted to about 23 percent of total dis-
bursements. Bank Group lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with
that of other donors; in 16 of the 36 Bank projects, joint or parallel finan-
cing was arranged and expanded cofinancing is being actively sought for
several future projects. Cameroon is now borrowing increasingly from private
sources; such borrowing rose to over 40 percent of external financing in
1975-79, compared with only 11 percent in 1967-69.
27,       Cameroon's public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31,
1979, amounted to US$1.6 billion, 7.9 percent of which was due to Bank loans
and 7.8 percent to IDA credits.  Bank loans accounted for 9.4 percent of
public debt service and IDA credits for 0.6 percent. By 1985, public debt
is projected to reach US$2.6 billion. In 1985, Bank loans and credits are
projected to account for about 26 percent of debt outstanding and 14 percent
of debt service.
PART II. THE POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTORS
28.       Despite the lack of accurate data, it is clear that current post and
telecommunications services are not adequate to suipport Cameroon's economic
and social development. The postal services reach remote areas of the country,
but are unreliable. Mail delivery can take up to three weeks, due to an
inadequate vehicle fleet, insufficient maintenance, and the poor condition of
the road network. The telecommunications services, despite high-cost invest-
ment in equipment and plant, remain characterized by uneven coverage and
quality. This has frustrated, in particular, efforts to stimulate business
activity and modernize agriculture.



- 8
Existing Facilities and Service
29.       The post offers a full range of postal operations plus a checking
account system and savings bank. These services are provided through 200
post offices, comnplemented by 25 rural mobile units.  The savings bank--which
extends loans to the public and semipublic sectors--has some 215,000 clients
and about US$26 million of deposits; the corresponding figures for the checking
account system are 24,000 and about US$18 million. Because private banks do
not find it profitable to operate outside the main business centers, the post
is the only institution channelling savings from agricultural areas. However,
managerial and other constraints prevent it from performing this role effi-
ciently.
30.       The telecommunications network links Yaounde, the capital, and
Douala, the major port, to the northern region across vast, uncerpopulated
areas.  The country has some 40,000 telephones  or a density of 0.5 per 100
inhabitants, slightly above the average for sub-Saharan Africa (0.4), but
lower than that for most countries on a comparable level of development.
Almost 60 percent of subscribers are concentrated in the tiuo largest cities.
Service, practically all automatic, is available in about 35 provincial towns
but does not extend to most of the isolated rural areas. The domestic tele-
graph network comprises 84 offices, and telex service is available to 500
subscribers only.
31.       About 80 percent of telephone subscribers and 90 percent of telex
suLbscribers are private firms.  In the two main cities, the services and
public administration sector account for 60 percent of subscri-ber connections,
with industrial and residential sectors representing 20 percent each.  The
agricultural sector-s share is negligible, due to acute underequipment of the
rural areas.  Various factors, including poor investment planning and almost
non-existent maintenance, explain the poor condition of the network and the
poor quality of service. Repair waiting times of 6 to 18 months have been
reported. The number of subscribers has grown by about 10 percent p.a. since
1973, but existing and potential demand remains largely unaccounted for.
Sector Institutions
32.       The P&T Ministry is the regulatory and policy-making authority for
both sectors; it is also the operating entity for the postal/financial services
and for the domestic telecommunications services, and as such, follows admini-
strative procedures not always suited for sectors requiring flexible manage-
ment and a commercial approach. International telecommunications, however,
are efficiently provided by an independent semi-private company, the Societe
Interrationale des Telecommunications du Cameroun (INTELCA.M) which is under
the control of the same Ministry. In order to ensure a comparable quality of
service, the Government has decided to create, under the proposed proJect,
an autonomous, profit-oriented P&T operating entity (para. 46), while leaving
the policy-making/ regulatory function within the Ministry. Although post and
telecommunications are frequently operated under two separate entities, the
Government-s choice is acceptable at this stage of development in Cameroon
partly because it will avoid staff redundancy for joint services; it can work



- 9 -
efficiently as long as the post, financial and telecommunlcatiors branches are
operated orn a com7nercial basis with separate accounts and finances, as provided
. _id u    :rt-- th ro  'Para. 45)>
Manageentr, Pe. s0 -t-!1, Training
33-       F.e" s-ue-:^ its stat-us as a government department, se'veral important
Ministry7s Central Administration (planning, budget,
soc-neI; buidings, transport) are partly carried out, and deci-
s~ion- Lta_i'   by Otc r LAnistries.  Even within the P&T Ministry, there is
insufficS e-t delega-ion of authority; there is no clear separation between
execuaxtive and policy-making functions, which sometimes results in duplication
of ef fort  Land ctiler times in lack of action.
34".'     The two secotors employ about 6,000 people.  The higher figure for
tee postal sector i . ,500) is required for mail distribution. The figure for
telecommunications (1,5500, half of whom are technicians) gives a ratio of 88
staff members per 1,000 subscriber lines (as against, say, 29 in Kenya), which
suggests low producLivity, particularly in the absence cf substantial construc-
ti-on or maintenance activities.  Some 900 employees work in the joint services.
Even when competent, managers have to work in a difficult and frustrating
environment, characterized by few skills upgrading opportunities, little
hiring ard firing authority, untrained lower level staff, low salaries and the
absence of a staff development program. The problem is compounded, in the
case of telecommunications, by the fact that skilled technical staff are in
short supply in the country, and that the private sector offers more competi-
tive working conditions.
35.       While little training is yet available in the field of busirness anid
management, in 1969 the Government established, under the P&T Ministry, a P&T
school consisting of a main establishment, in Yaounde, and a small branch in
Buea. Both schools train postal clerks and telecommunicatiorLs technicians in
an 8-month program taught in French in Yaounde and in English at Buea. In
addition, the Yaounde school offers a bilingual program, producing administra-
tive and technical staff in 18 months, or in 33 months for senior personnel.
However, its curricula demonstrate a theoretical bias and gaps in coverage,
which the project proposes to correct (para. 48). The buea school, which is
more efficient, is not included in this project.
Tariffs, Planning and Finances
36.       P&T policy and tariffs are formulated by the P&T Ministry and
approved by the Council of Ministers. Postage rates are kept at a low level
(the lowest in the Central Africa region); telecommunications tariffs are
almost twice as much as in most LDCs, but given inter alia the very high
unit cost of the present network, they may not even be adequate to produce a
rate of return of at least 10 percent. A 5-year investment program has been
prepared (para. 39), but there is no forecasting of demand, revenue, operating
expenses and manpower requirements as a basi-s for sound development planning,
a need urovided for by the proposed project (para. 47).



- 10 -
37.       For lack of a commercial accounting system, the PFT ventral Adman-
istration does not produce the accurate integrated statements needed for au
evaluation of its financial results. Annual expenditures are planned as
part of the national budget managed by the Minister of Finance, and revenues
are paid into the Treasury.  The strict budgetary controls exercised oy the
Ministry of Finance are geared to containing operating expenses, regardless of
the impact on revenue generation, which partly explains the shortage of
vehicles and spare parts for day-to-day operations.
38.       Almost three-quarters of total revenues in the sectors derive from
telecommunications. The 8 percent decline in revenues over 1977/78 (the last
year for which accurate figures are available) can be largely attributed to a
deterioration in the quality of service, and, for domestic telephone and telex
services, to poor billing and collection procedures. The level of collection
is under 80 percent, and drops to below 25 percent for government subscribers;
accounts receivable (all subscriber categories) represent about two years of
billingO
The Country's P&T Program
39.       The US$110 million invested by the Government in both sectors
during the first three 5-year Plan periods (1961-76) went mostly to telecom-
munications, largely on an ad hoc basis.  Similarly, additional capital
investments scheduled under the current Fourth and the forthcomin6 Fifth Plans
will be of minimal benefit unless the many institutional constraints identi-
fied are alleviated, and a comprehensive approach to sector development is
adopted.
40.       The objectives Government expects to reach through the establisniient
of a P&T entity are: in the postal sector, improved speed and coverage of
mail delivery and increased effectiveness of the financial branches; in tne
telecommunications sector, rehabilitation of the existing facilities, with
some extensions where demand clearly exists (namely Douala and Yaounde) and
strengthening of the sector's planning capability, both for short- and medium-
term expansion and for long-term development. Pending approval and start of
project implementation, the Government undertook in the fall of 1980 the most
urgent rehabilitation works, with technical support from the International
Telecommunications Union (ITU). The existing Network Rehabilitation Unit
supported by ITU would continue these priority works until the proposed new
entity can take over its assigned responsibilities (Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Bank-s Strategy in the Sector
41.       The proposed project would be the Bank's first involvement in the
P&T sectors in Cameroon, and represents the initial phase of a strategy
stressing much needed institutional improvements, and sound and balanced
extension of the system. The basic rationale for the proposed project is that
reliable communications are fundamental to the overall economic efficiency and
development of Cameroon. Additional justifications relate to the role piayed
by the posts financial services in mobilizing aomestic savings, ana the large
revenue-earning potential of the telecommunications sector.



- 1i -
IV. THE PROJECT
Back-ground
42.       The proposed project was identified by a joint telecommunications
sector mission of the Bank and the International Telecommunications Union
(ITU) which visited the country in December 1978. The mission found that
establishing an efficient institution was a prerequisite for sound development
of the telecommunications sector. Government shared this position and also
requested that the postal sector be included in this reorganization effort.
The proposed project was appraised in February 1981, and negotiations held in
Washington on August 24-27, 1981. The Cameroonian delegation was led by Mr.
Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador to the US. The main features of the project are
highlighted in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report,
supplemented by Annex III. There is no separate staff appraisal report.
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The objectives of the project are to improve the quality of domestic
and international post and telecommunications services. The major initial
step in this direction is a reorganization of both sectors through the estab-
lishment of a commercially viable, cost-efficient public enterprise with legal
and financial autonomy. This new entity would be responsible for planning ana
managing its own financial, technical and manpower resources, developing post
and telecommunications services, networks and facilities, and ensuring effi-
cient operation and proper maintenance of its plant and equipment.
44.       The project would support a three-year program of technical assis-
tance comprising the following:
(A) establishment of a new P&T entity, to take place in two phases:
(i) a study and assessment of the present sectoral institution, and
the design of a new public entity; (ii) setting up of the new
organization;
(B) preparation of an investment program for the P&T sectors
(including projects suitable for external financing); and
(C) improvement of technical training given at the Yaounde P&T
school.
A.   Establishment of a New P&T Entity
45.       Phase I:  Study of the existing organization and outline of a new
one. Consultants would undertake the following specific tasks:
(a) prepare the legal framework and the financial and organizational
structures of a new operating entity (to be formally established
about one vear after the beginning of the project) providing for
separate accounts, budgets, and cash management for each of its
three major branches of activity (post, financial services and
telecommunications) and appropriate financial controls for each;



- 12 -
(b) prepare a valuation of the existing post and telecommunications
assets and liabilities, an assessment of the new entity-s debt
servicing capacity and of the liquidity requirements of its three
major Dranches of activity; and detailed recommendations for
transfer of assets and, to the extent feasible and appropriate.
of liabilities, to the new entity;
(c)  design a comprehensive commercial accounting system;
(d) design detailed management information, planning and budgeting
systems;
(e)  detine a personnel policy, including a staffing plan and a staff
developmerit program for medium and higher level P&T staff;
(f)  definie organization, methods, and services for equipment procurement
and maintenance; and
(g)  define the organization of the post, financial and telecommu,nica-
tions services.
Some 16 consultants, totalling about 75 man-months of services (US$1 "illioo.
would be assigned to this study, expected to last nine months.
46.       Phase II:  Setting up of the new organization.  Following reavew by
the Bank and approval by the Government, recommendations of the study  onuld be
implemented over a 20 month period, in two stages:  first, formal establisimono
of the P&T entity and setting up of the new framework, structures, systemis an.Ld
orocedures developed (about 12 to 15 months); second, a start-up periods w-th
take-over of functions previously undertaken by other government services, and
on-the--`ob training in management, accounting, and administration (abouc 3  o
6 ronths).  This part would require about 12 consultants, for a total of 200
man-months of services (US$2.8 million), including 18 man-months for training
B.   Preparation of an Investment Program
47.       The project would provide for preparation of an investment prcgram
(primarily in telecommunications) to ensure a cost-efficient use of resources:
Because the telecommunications facilities need rehabilitation and expansiorn
preparation of the investment program cannot be delayed until the new planning
system to be designed by the consultants is fully operative. This componaent2
to be implemented in parallel with the study undertaken under Phase I (para.
45), would include: (i) a demand study and market analysis to determine
investment priorities; (ii) preparation of financial projections to assess the
new P&T entity's ability to finance implementation of the proposed investment
program; (iii) formulation of an investment program, including projects and
sub-projects identified and designed for external financing; and (iv) dra  ng
of bidding documents suitable for international competition.  This component
would require aboutt 63 man-months of services (US$0.8 million), and wou'd cc
executed over a 6--month period.



13 --
C.   The Yaou-nde P&T School, Training Fellowships
48.       The project also includes:  (i) formulation and i ntroduction of
comprehensive traJning and up-radi ng programs tailored to job cequirements
of the new enlity; (i>) training of Cameroonian instructors, modernization of
teaching methods and introduction of instruction in more advanced technolo6y;
(iii) equipping of tlhe 3chuol ivorkshops, laboratories and classrooms; and
'iv) about 40 Felt-tlcwshi?s for training, upgrading or specialization abroad of
solected P&T staff.  Tnis com-ponent, expected to last about three years, would
De allocaLed ibQ .:i'x.thS of expatriate expert time (UiS$1.3 million),
including the services of a project coordinator, one educator, one training
material specialist, one equip.ent maintenance/management specialist and of
various technIcal consultants.
Project Organization and Execution
49.       The Government decided to split the Project's first component into
two contracts--for the study and for setting up the new organization--thus
reserving its right to retain a different consultant for the second phase.
Although the Government's position is understandable, a concern for continuity
would suggest retaening the same team. At the end of the study, and based on
a review of its recommendations in which the Bank would participate, Government
would take a decision on this point. The Government has provided an assurance
that, if a different consulting team were selected for setting up the new
organization, their qualifications, terms of reference and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to the Banak (Section 3.02(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
50.       The Government has already selected for the study and the investment
program a consortium led by Maheu, Noiseux and Co., a Canadian consulting firm
with broad experience in organization, management and accounting; other
members are: Bell Canada International; Postes Canada; and Kooh and Mure, a
Cameroon-based auditing firm. The qualifications, terms of reference and
conditions of employment of this consortium have been approved by Government
and by the Bank; their contract was negotiated in June 1981, and found accep-
table by the Bank. Working under the supervision of their team leader, the
consultants would be assigned to the existing P&T Central Administration
during preparation of the study.  At the setting-up stage, they would be
attached to the new P&T entity and each would train a selected Camerooinan
counterpart who would gradually take over the new operational functions as
defined in the course of the study (Sections 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       For the Yaounde P&T school, the Government has selected as con-
sultants the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and the Universal
Postal Union (UPU). These two experienced United Nations specialized agencies
would provide technical training experts recruited internationally according
to their own procedures. The Government has provided an assurance that the
contracts to be signed with both UN agencies would be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Admission of new students would be suspended during the reorganization period.
Once fully operative, the training team would be integrated into the P&T
entity, where it would be responsible for all training activities.



- 14 -
Pro Tect Coordination and Supervision
52.        Overal.l coor,dination and supervisiorn of proJent activiCJies -,uld *
entrusted to the P&T Minister, assisted by a Governmuent appointed StearJin
Commlttee. This Committee, to consist of four senior representatLves of the
government services concerned, would be chaired by the Minister.  it WoulC
-losely follow  ,he work of consultants, including their recommendations, whicn
WOuld be reviewed with the Bank before a final decision is made by the Governl-
ment on the establishment of the P&T entity.  'The Executive Secretary or t1he
Committee--who would participate in its deliberations without vote--would
inltially:  act as Project Director and Cameroonian counterpart to the con-
sulting team leader; be responsible for maintainin8g alL Pro ect accounts ann4
ensuring that Loan proceeds are used for their designated purposes; liaise
betwieen the Government and the Bank on Project matters, a role which tne
senior executives of the new P&T entiLy would subsequently take over.  Details
of the composition, organization and terms of reference of the Steering
Committee have been agreed upon with the Government; appointment oL the
Committee by Government would be a conditioni of loani effectiveness (Sections
3.01(b) and 6.01 of the draft 'Loan Agreement).
General Manager and Financial Director of the New Entity
The Government s choice of the General Lanager, who wou-l Aecbue
Pro-,ect Director, and of the Financial Director of the new P&T entiry is of
the utmost importance for the success of the project, Terms of refereince and
the profiles of' candidates would be defined during the initial study. Lo De
rev-iewed with the Banzk.  The Government has provided assuran.ces tnat, DetOre
entering the second contract (related to the settinrg-up of the new orgariiza-
tioll) it would appoint to these posts, persons with the qualifications ann
experience required for satisfactory discharge of their respect`ve responsi-
bilities (Sect-ion 3.35 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost and Financing
54.        Total project cost is estimated at US$11.1 million (net of local
taxes and duties, from which the project would be exeimpt).  TIhe prouosec US$71 .5
million Bank Loan would be made to the Government which woulld relend its
proceeds to the new P&T entity, once established, on the same terms ana.
conditions as charged by the Bank, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to De
approved by the 3ank (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The
proposEd loan would cover the foreign cost component, representing aboout 67
percent of total costs, while the Government would meet the remaining (local)
costs, about US$3.6 million equivalent. Contingencies would amount to almost
30 percent of total base costs, including about 10 percent as physical con-
tingencies.  The Project would include the provision of about 41 man/years of
consulting services, about 40 fellowships, vehicles, office and school equip-
mkent, local staff and operating expenses (including travel in Cameroon).
Average base costs for consultants selected for the study and the investment
program--including salaries, various allowances, overheads and international
travel--are estimated at US$14,000 a monthI (US$13,000 for the Cameroon-based
firm). These costs are admittedly high, but are considered necessary in order



- 15 -
to attract to the Central African Region the specialized expertise required
for the project. For the UN experts in charge of the more limitea reorgani-
zation of the P&T School, the 1981 costs amount to US$8,500 a month because of
lower overheads and because ITU and UPU are non-profit organizations.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       International competitive bidding according to the Banik's guide-
lines would apply for laboratory and workshop equipment and tools, costing
US$0.9 million. Because of the small size of the orders, vehicles and office
equipment totalling less than US$200 000 would be procured through local
competitive bidding following procedures acceptable to the Bank.  The presence
of local representatives of foreign manufacturers would permit adequate
service and supply of spare parts.
56.       The proposed loan of US$7.5 million would finance 100 percent of
the foreign exchange cost of consulting services (US$4.7 million), 100 percent
of foreign expenditures and, if purchased locally, 75 percent of local expendi-
tures for equipment and vehicles (US$880,000), and 100 percent of total
expenditures for fellowships abroad (US$300,000). Disbursements would be
fully documented. About US$1.6 million of loan proceeds would be unallocated.
Accounts and Auditing
57.       The consultants would design for the new P&T entity a commercial
accounting system. Accounts and financial statements would be audited
each year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The report of the
auditors and annual audited financial statements would be submitted to the
Bank for review within six months after the end of the fiscal year (Section
4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
58.       The proposed project is expected to lay the groundwork for sound
development of both sectors. It would set the stage for a major improvement
in the flow of information needed for the efficient growth of the various
regions and sectors. In the case of telecommunications, it would pave the
way for future capital investment projects to be externally financed, notably
a possible second, larger Bank operation, and would help create the conditions
for maximizing the sectors fiscal and economic returns. It would aim at
ensuring that resources are used efficiently and that investments match
the development objectives and the absorptive capacity of the country, two
important goals at a time when oil discoveries are beginning to enhance the
revenue and investment prospects of Cameroon. In the process, the planned
reorganization of the sector is expected to translate into better service
for the whole economy, a reduction of operating and investment costs, and
improved collection of receivables. Substantial as they may be, however,
these benefits are difficult to quantify.
59.       The major risks inherent in this, as in most technical assistance
projects, are delays at key stages of implementation. In this case, those



- 16 -
risks have been minimized by selecting the consultants during project prepa-
ration, and making appointment of the Steering Committee a condition of loar.
effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The other risks--
namely that difficulties may arise between national staff and expatriate
technical assistants, and that some of the consultants recommendations may be
left unheeded by the Government--have been addressed by bestowin8 upon the
Steering Committee the role of supervising the consultants' work, particularly
formulation of their recommendations, and of ensuring that once accepted,
these are acted upon.  Such risks are considered worth taking in view of the
potential benefits of the project for the economy as a whole, and are in any
event moderate, given the keen interest expressed by the Government in the
project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Cameroon
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex II1. A condition of effectiveness would be the appointment of a Steer-
ing Committee of senior government officials responsible for supervision and
coordination of project activities (para. 52).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMFENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 12, 1981



ANNTEX I
-17- -s                                                         Page 1 of 7
TABLE 3A
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GES
LAND AREA U HOUSAND SV-                                                                    MOtA  - ?OST RECENT ESTIHATE)
TOTAL             4 75. 4                                MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      !56.9               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE  b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GhP PER CAPIIA (US)                   140.0        230.0      560.0/c               794.2                    1616.2
ENERG Y CCNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KEllOGkRUS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       86.9       111.3      147.5                  707.5                   1324.1
POPL.ATIUN AND VITAL STIAISTICS
POPULATION, MIO-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  5680.7         6781.3    8245.0
URBAN POPULATIUN (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.9           20.3      33.0                   27.7                     64.2
PvPULA iIlO  PROUJE,i:1 UNS
PUYULA1ION IN YUAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         13.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           37.0
YEAR STIATI(NARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                         11.9         14.3      17.3                   55.0                     34.3
PER SQ. KR. AGRICULITURAL LAND      36.0         44.0      51.3                  130.7                     94.5
PUPULAIION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           38.9         40.5      41.5                   46.0                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                           57.0        55.4       54.4                   51.2                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.1          4.1       4.1                    2.8                      4.0
PUPULATIUN GRoWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.4          1.8       2.2                    2.8                      2.4
URBAN                                4.9          5.6       7.6                    5.1                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.8         42.0       42.3                  46.9                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THUUSAND)       26.8         22.0       18.7                  15.8                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8          2.8       2.8                    3.2                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD, AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOUD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            69.0        101.0     110.0                   89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     80.0         89.0      89.0                   92.3                    107.6
PkOTELNS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.0         51.0      51.0                   52.8                     65.8
OF WEICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         11.0         13.0      15.0                   16.1                     34.0
LhILD (AGES 1-4)  &RTALITY RATE       41.0         31.3       25.4                  20.2                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2           42.5      46.9                   50.8                      64.1
INFANT HORTALlTY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            172.0           ..     157.0                     ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT UF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      26.0                   27.4                     65.7
URBAN                                 ..           ..      35.0                   74.3                     79.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      22.0                   12.6                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                     59.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                     ..                      75.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           48108.3      30139.0   16503.1                13844.1                   1728.2
POPULATIOUN PER NURSING PERSON      6151.0jd    2869.8    2228.1                  2898.6                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HUSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              535.7_jd     563.0     370.1                 1028.4                    471.2
URBAN                              329.0/d      302.0     199.9                  423.0                    558.0
RURAL                              579.0/d      722.0     606.5                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       5.2
URBAN                                 ..           ..       5.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..       5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER RUOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       6.7
URBAN                                 ..           ..      22.6
RURAL                                 * -*                  0.5



ANNEX I
Page 2 of7
TABLE 3A                                           Page 2
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          .IDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 65.0         91.0     101.0                  73.7                   101.7
MALE                 87.0        105.0     112.0                 96.8                    103.0
FEMALE               43.0         77.0      91.0                 79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0          8.0      16.0                  16.2                    35.3
MALE                  4.0         11.0      21.0                 25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                1.0         4.0       11.0                  14.8                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 23.0          23.0      25.0                   5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHEE RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..        48.0      50.0                  36.2                    29.6
SECONDARY                            . .       24.0      26.0                  23.6                    15.7
ADOL LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        19.0        12.0        ..                    ..                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUS4AND
POPULATION                         3.0          4.9       7.7                  32.3                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         31.3      30.5                  69.0                   215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPIL ATION                          ..          ..        ..                   8.0                    89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TEOUSAND POPULATIONI                  2.0         2.5       3.9                  20.2                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1           ..       1.0                   0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2906.9       3299.2    3701.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  43.0         42.7      40.6                  36.7                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.0        85.0      83.0                  56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.0          6.0       6.9                  17.5                    23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.2        48.7      44.9                  37.2                     31.8
MALE                                 59.9        57.0      54.3                  47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                               42.9        40.6      35.8                  27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.9       1.1                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ ?ER CAPITA)
UTRBAN                               ..          ..     238.0                 381.2
RURAL                               ..           ..     105.0                 156.2                    187.6
ESTLIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..                 334.3                    513.9
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..                 137.6                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPL'LATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      15.0                     -
RUJRAL                               ..          ..      40.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
arong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  UIless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c Fiscal year July-June; /d 1962, including es-South Cameroon under British administration.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
19 -                                                                                    Page 3 of 7
DEINiITIONS OF blOOM. INDTCATItR
Notes:  Although th  deo  r d-oOt    ate  geuttily jsdgad the meat atehe- tice and reliable, in   hetld  1alo  be  -cte  chat theY may ten be steer-
eaeanalyeepaebi  beses  atth  leek afaa...            e    etitu    a   ueps   cdb   ifrn    eaalei   elete    h    aa                               h   eoae   ae
The.aeet  grssae()the sn   oor  grasp at the saijec   cea. teY and (2  aesenclY graap sith  -tmebo  high- se ergettetheenaety gaas;
nejeety c  eteecosres i  e geap hs daa ft  tha  Etdl-att." lne  she credle  lb .ctt..ss eNctg. Af         he andd tne  deeidds  iee'oailty                    rfdn
Totl   Tootneeec  aea  osrluntiad ameashenau  astrs. Se-rhba-n, _                                      td  ura -h   dtlen   bya th-ce  -tpr ei'c  ri~ashra         ptlh
heelittattrei-ert   -atceOs5rtbe1al  orta,dtmoactrrencttrethbnI __adpe'oos,eetesetlsdtsia                                                                                            de
ta   rp,putrs-ee    tdhthnsree   rs   i   aiThs  19f   iaidata.                                   hrtbIThstt-r centers.    cpsly  oe,    euoli cencnssnI..tota
I later at - t -  a-19 th ~ ~    ~          ~         ~        ~         byat   oatat  phnt..a.Ssshlnyans pdrf...prireahl  cota
ifotaPER CPTA .rl.       -P1e  taitia         a esiares at  art   eis   rcsde-dilcr   r   a -tlldd.-terl, hompto, '- ueaa, s--e   eet
1970, med 1979 dana.                                                                    ceditat~~~~~-.  .~1b   asoistrac  st,ieam   bydttlfs  rest.-j-t rd1efte   to-yatea act..
f., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-P.,                                                                          -~~~~dteca.dpari      (salte    ragea  ahicAt_'tte.    a     rsatc
09110ClN1sTtO  Pt iyoi -Atti  hosutta a1  tamorid  al- e              1erg    (teal-stiyr te   rt   bctis                              -icit ebtlepilecipe/pectra-      epioe
t      paay   i  hereano   oo    ylsln   e  toyka;t110,  OYC  eni1919amears    ccaiohhsnel tJ.                                               ahda         odtttl
data   PTAU~$             G'Pek                                                                    idestt  car oepoe   e    - Caml hener .af    h ediedn  re or~ dlhergto
Totl  oplssn,   id-ea1(979 ~           do d.e-tJa    ; 791,1)1  ead 1079                          sOilIdl
dtfeer   d0e55t~nofabotaesmyeit   uprbir    tfc                                               a    hi   esso.Abode --                  lodge  ray at ma  ati etbeddi
moeN        oumsa   yaeea   e   u   herntnly  n   etlty.ee.dehl.                                                   ePectl-a l:y.        .9 loilng   maclde- nas-piriano    Fteoe-rs s-
mealg  r,asfeaele eapet- as rydih).c    atd ((bdi            .1 years     i   es                     Cas asrhsel-dwelIng ..t.  nior s   inp lIning qaseteg-rs meh percetage
seasfearityrtalo'aetrelanasaigdaimI                                                               ittlara,edrnl relfsetfner
ferstisy aeomdlo  er  ntactleneletA  pst cady  potnansperfam_tr
the htroi rena is myra1 so si  teeth  cote. erd  slut the7al  etatdc 19 -            aralleta  oi.l- ages  t th   rta- y alanaid on -portetegosal. ayat
PPLThe  ~ emplAceen STeTSTI CfSerntrys rt   oe,ae   ahgorsaee ho.Pta  adins d fan                                                    11 dlffre r lmsnh  afpimrdausta;  e
adT     me.    elaelssl.saty    The eeineoiy   pcye.960 o  stem,  ass -'It,,                                        thHnnesl   ioais   salcstny  ueN   llpcrn
esiatdaateit'   f  h  c                                                                          Ate   iaateseesa   teppiais  ia   sn  pysac   tlno  oomeilfitalsbsiaH
Ia ti  yne  1111  onenbc  ate a  Aeciss  d ferlilccea I   to"  emplace-                      heeada d schol.  roe    ai  tdfscdi-dCnps.ed ras obes  seceder7
rest lanai.                                                                       ad etetioe reqo inns as lsaet foar y.1a  enta    ra of  ppena   priar  Inerdtia
total a            9a; , 911. l Oc se   19(9  da t.ta.ler.-hladete'tcs)   ladstrel  t.. etea                                                         roo      sti  pet   need
crcen.ha.sorcalamo  icd  -Conern  asebao Or....t.seel  us                                   estly a                   im dce-orot  atsetud   -1is --te ieo d
only; 1910. iOu  and 1970 data                                                           faig-eareatto- prmay  sod sstlsdar                     otlmn a     n.P . ts on relied 
lesIon;lti, 19(0.t sade 199d,-atc.                                                                  Malee,1 sterecytheats, (..r.s..  ( -"P-  ghereaoas             sre   n   ce
....t....nz   IseP.re.5   sel      tet.  rot   atsc  itio  rid-                                   asa_ pern. tags of total  ad -l Fpiaio,   age  is,  preace _and ar-
Pueastie  iruch btaI yhrrr..-ri              Asnaulagot  re.issOsera pI c"                     Oslf btIPOIaIIr 1  -1i_.r                              _
Crdo liriPte  pelrtosnd - ia al te   hIer  Farl ti-aseod pa0f  ri-paorsstuglstht iitasn;eceds                                                                iitsehasssd
posists  i        di,  97t, Icd 19   - ae                                                           eittneilo
ird   eth -oaty (per theasnd   bnai demie  yte  -boomatis of aid-peu                           lDUAdlIhOneefn   basderit (-eiseso   eanr   a   ai
p dOfa rtios; 1911,bd 197 ,an  1979l does.                                                          ieusaldcEetscnca    elcpe   ieada   alta;etae    s
linen ierudeoion Rat-enerae steit ci degheecaa aese   -l g-ac  it-ieedsctsst  co-tl-det  it .ear   eler                                               -isrnu   ci radIo
hen   ormiaetudctie  peiodif  hemyerasas   prsetageepeeftfer-snceasloatec; daa erceeetyeas mamatemepaeiletr,
woe f   cii-bar    ae(1-ler   s ta oary p-rl-catrl deiceea                                       te    er iit-sithn  pe  ttasd   Fritof - Sioe  ie  acage  ir-
-il   ta cEd names It see     1ag  g...                                                             cabbatluh.,of "daily  gemerabl itrest- newpapr"  Am           hed  leprtoio
Poll All liTlIt_liN                                                                              so herae l  -_1.e-  ..drsy"i  ise  Lppr  at tams teare tie  enemA b.-
leAs   ra t Fo   reet -   yet C -ahsa  (16-1TIh) ea  h- ldes   e  capitaortei-ieattt itu                                     mrtCct ear Ere   -Baed at he caine o
pedcianc.       ilfo hnnaritab...fctlssridesef  nd ed                           o                   ioee  cldy heel1    g  the1 ytoc, ~ ltoidit eeedsetosde.t  dein g-a .ain aels
tealo ati anD.. ya.      hms    esois           ae  pemcygodye..sa coeand nhleanit
teaerak.  maladd)y. .       pAgreate  r-ecip-  a q. eac    oora   hosed at(JOC                                                 (p,dbt.01  -FItif.                          -il..
mati0roi 1sn 0ege dood 9c   9 p d_nsigts  191f,17,of17   aa                               fnrao   ac   sosea                      i     thoicll   hcil      h p pses.  tuslsdssg
Per      1960,eari at7 ceese(ecnsc.dseast(-imee 1t975atdstfee-ce                                                         id tosmityn    hat     .. moldiog   ues ites, s-datut, et.la.
par  ay.   teilhle  apple" Campiledomes0sia preasris, -limyrteige 15                     oa     aryeehe  101, 17             17aae
qaceti..a s,,lendit feed  ycoc,,aadteg,ard  ose a is di-g.etlso.lqc- idgyittita.... (perent 1-alehrftei   eno,  osey    an                                                     n
nests.  nets sesi aedbPAbad             a   hsoog9ltd   (tcra   ct-fs  sge   eentg    fcn Litehr.foce  1969:,  1971tan.d 11   aa
nitstt.e1-cceibtlgnstrumttatfmertea,hdre5                           id-~g             Inonty-(ceceel-l.theefdeatunl.tss id.onstacto,anadsnt
lardsee dfsrti95el60     atype9t6,0d  lono   1 70eeta   unso and   ier970oy,79ce edPcmasp -eeecage ofrtota   labrtorte  1961,
hoseImiold 1eal; i97i-AO, 1979, cda. 197dsh1y    d17    ae
Fat. DcytaAap   o              cr -iu     Ain  tee deay)h- perothb ..atee  of idyet apia            Ftitalu  aeOson                    etial, maim...  sAl ftmai.el-F ettipacifn  ond
em  apytoi      teFe   a.Ncsupyu   od  odfs                       a b6e1.  Pa-                     adettett   rate  etralonabste   atr tota,-ale  en  .ltamale lehul domc
Mireotd  a eit gree  of tota  prtitardyadg0goeso,m lad                                            196,,1970,:sa  9F  data.  Thmeor  hoedas. ILf's peetia_ipa e ae
Poles   ratei, at wicb 1  gesm  thupdb   nmlFues              bseead                       ela  n   g-e  treeur   o    btinpplto,ed1                         ieted
atdeaolonet-ar .id ent            cl-anoPeeaprsedaedlgencffeamtneeer   tnncienlsarsc
himlpoai.e   tserg   e   h  sand    Frapma   y  AOi  the Thftrd                                   snasIcnecytta-Pnco pfpya-ie  att  lb  and61p nd- ee
tieni  Faend  -eecy; 1961-Al, 17  aed 1977                96,170 dots,9                              .to th  stea -im.bar1faredi ..   g
riesd  teem nimlmod    l    isd.       grompe  doy; 1961-1)  lPI .. d 1977das....co  al(lfiil"iOeari
phi  ae   -lseetrlaace (peeU ehecdl-enna   eth    e  tome    reytnteaa    rneeItn  (bath    t eashim   lSd -V teetadb                                                             is
age  tOO   i-Iyaae,  o osidrn  i  thi  ags) ghcobirOth  most- d-i-otu  stat                                                                          Shecs,  ihs  O   acts   oree1   scet   n thoas  60 prce
ettes daret  d-he  ica  leOm tabls:110   92gri199doe                                                 a,It hoeneha"daiye.        r1it.- -PP1,dfie                             .ii
tOte      e Feeduc  ardtNice_ (emCee)ta ec1r6ge 1aIec at y.es  cf pter -pnelmiug.                    CThe itil,-t   Animtesdarea ver Cptypicrimetr  Bane dar - ofhecettye leef
on bieth; 1911, 1910 enf 1979 data,                                                  and ni-d-Infela- likt,  ld be  inteprted  tSatb  conlddi shldccatie...1    bv-.d.-
Infant    1.1d tltyePate  oar- Choueadit-lat  heartso _         ett  ceder _tmya                    fatisd .bileableFeryItaelnl(lletc to-rit dmtl-
dieent aSf dIee  (peceee of   .cea   .a)  total amis..   osd caroi - N"-saRieonel    dqaedt   Ie    set                                           e-cd   aatmsei   u
her a      .. peapie  total, aris  o   otal) utt6i 5,190 esrba stea  to dctfn                      T.affeLdohe.            W     y:   b           .               a  ..
Par mmcmply(elde   oo              sari2         Ae saein   r ...t.ete   ha a..mecd onsf ed        isietd  Telosleeynce  IoresIn l (Il pe                      ....... -  drhe  adrud
watec y scabas-tat  free   frtetd !horehlts, cprsng_  aed mettoycel)  sit                                   , mltepnetPscmtlndi  ueiid  of, seAgepecpe
toaaeiaosteeptelotaedaanorebaelf  sncee  Ornaiomamybe                     eeeltt pdjtsties allchghercOnrtflati gtthnee
considred enbetas  lihlteenosehieecessfta  hte                artiaet ietmaad  atletosCaI' Ihot  9atc   tasLei  oret      ra
-Issil   ces    ol h,,,,,   than Ntl. -ppeaslf  at.. sanhr1 feeda h-d..d                       eeF  an:-Feo    tO          -pleeole (eho  and. teag,I  1eb- lare  "sisu ete
aatiy'  awater tee e. d        _    'gi    _a                                                                                                              ral
Acrsesfacetaleaoec  (prca.na     al0l I ... e,  ol.dierlb-i..e   esqea- -                                                                                        at,  
th  oleisd       n  dips l,aitida  ites aceasme                re,aftoe  eamnea                                                            Ec.ol  otb9i60ae    .lne
an  nse-ae "h  daye-htn  cFstec acp the sea at pItpei ie   end 5R-irtmtAr  . a ecatruni    eslye,  ned fr... ectice- If.ereas
ho  imeleIen  .                                                                                                                                          af16
Famienan  ar  hesose   -  opit nlo1 dpe- de   ho- dayie  at peshperlcipgtOhysi-.
Feeslatian tee  fchat   h Pece  g- PualotIdt dittOed  h  comer of Theac -datfring....r.r dfth_b--,-                                                           e   1gti.t.d
maIeaaO_legcdsr    ssaoar'cs.uce,sdecsinnims



Population:                8.3  million  (mid-1979)                 -  20  -                                                   ANNEX  I
GNP  per  Capi ta:   US$559  (1979)                 UNITED REFLPLIC OF C4MEROON                                                Page  4  of  7
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(l) /a
1572       1973        1974       1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980
tiATIt.-   ArCOWNTS
(1CUT t-! to[ TC IF RiZUIONS)
-  a.    r    Fr'-.              355.9       400.5      492.6       569.7      657.3       789,9       937.0   1 090.7    1Y3Th8
4.-rBss 11,:e-t.c 83,,rYts  45,3    59.6       109.8       85.9       101.2      142.7       185.2      21555       239.8
r-r t as                           115.5      123.3       113.1      13,.1       109-.1     1521i       189.5       13.0       239I6
,u[re       n Hre t reirce               -24.0       -17.8         0.3      -30.8      -27.1       -23.4        11.5      -58.0       -22i3
'tptc  N', c j                           Q30 9      90.6       132,6      138,9       156.8      202.6       296.0      314,8       384.2
T-%%  9  tf'  ho 2.s 8r2d 1 S          -98.5      -101.7    -118.4       -156.4    -173.4    -218.8    --9J.9          -355,6     -383.9
YHS 7 af tTi-' a9t Harket 1 rice)
T at M r' 2t Prices              100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0      103.0       100.0       100.0      1OO.0       10M0
i,ross 4'ic~- stlc 3ayir!gg   12.7        14.9       22.3       15.1        15.4       20.6        19.8        19.8       21,9
GP*s -'trv  r 8cAqs                        32.5       30.3        23.0       23.9        16.6       19.3        20.2       19.5        18.1
;-'ni er!   u.colJrt E,r,lar,c2    -6.8        -4.5        0.1        -5.4       -4.1        -3.0         1.2 2     -53         -1.7
scrts if          Nr iF-                22,7        22.6       26.9        24.4       23.8        25.7        31.6       28,9       29.1
li, sr-ts of G-      Er&i NFS            -27.7       -25.4      -24.0       -27.5      -26.4       -27.7      -31.6       -32,6       -29.0
(A ri!lla1    R 1  cs cf C-rowth)
831P at M-V4 .rin                           2i6        5,5        11.1       -1.7         5.0        8.0         7.3         8.5        5,8
r-; no  tH l.2 i- Y SyECTR
T +,Jr2;   F AT Mjili3rjos)
P&-se"' bure ' -&I1Livestock etc         111.7       126.7       154.7      i93.7      220.8       259.7       297.7      347.0       400.2
Sli:li-<si  0.8  1.2   1.3        2.3         2.1        3.2         7.3       23.0        I9.v
9ar 1t  ftu.ircs                   38.3        40,4       45,6        56.2       67v.        74.7       89.4       100.3      114.11
 t-jt trur-tieDrl                      13.7        15.9        19.4       21.6       28.6        42.2       46.8        60, I0      01.
'c- ci,-,t;- Ssl 8ter                     4.8         4.3         5,3        5.7         6.7       10,1        11.7       14.4        17.'v
Tns=ar tT  -rid Gaxtriffiiicatiors         26.4       31.9        40,1       49.3        55.1       57,7        A5S9        71,9      j9, j
i- A1e                                    77.3        81.0       88.1        93.9      107.1        126.9     159.7       175.0      211.
4Aristrst:cn                      32.6        33.0        34.4       43.6       45.1        56.2        67.7       73.2
'tAier S.V 1e 5                         327.6       511.9      84.7        81.0       87.0       111.6       139.2      1.9-8       1% 9 c
-'1Fort OJt2if'                        12.7        13.7        18.5       22,4       32.9        43.1        54.5       61.4       A4
' A     *, 1D8 r4)i
.r'  t  ro  rcl.Liv--stock etc         31.4        31.6       -31.4       34.0       33.6        32.9       31.8        31.8        3" 3
r  I .2    0.3         0.4        0.4         0.3        0.4         0.9        2.1         6.0
ar0i2ictur;i-i3              10.8       10,1         9,3        9.9        10.3        9,5         9,5        9.2         44
rr -TrTuct1orT                            3.8        4.0        3.9         3.8        4.4         5.3         5.0        5.5           0
FicPliL   8sa^iiter                         1.3        1.2         1.1        1.0         M+         1.3         1.          1,3        ',
P .r-F   t1 aJ Cc r i-c -2ticrcs      7.4         80         8.1        8.7        8O4          7.3        7.0         6.6        6,2
21.7       20.2        17.9       16.5        16.3       16,1        17,j        16.0       16,0
'^!-J i- -ir ilir!l-l :-ErtlreiFl  9.2    8.2        7.0         7.7        4,9         7.1        7.2         _.7
if Per 'Dtxle r10.6                                   13.0       17.2        14,2       13.2        14.1       14.9        14.7       14
Irctm Erte                                 3.6        3.4         3.3        3.9         5.0          5         5.564r
3,~~~  5.0  ~ ~.8                    5.6
265.0      241.0       230.1      222.4       225.1      248.0       23?9.0     216.7       2r, 
rr2i-i 0 "A;rMe
'      32-21120'. t  tF? Cseosrtcrrar, aiitocrities with recliss-icetion bi Staff.
.'^51C l   -;, ''   -J       30) is *ocoj withi Erni Yesr urowr iri te tsble.
,       T; ,,   ;L ,r FR IC;                                              t''-
.1   1 ,--     4



Population:                8.3  million  (mid-1979)                  -  21  -                                             A,NNEX  IL
Gt-NP  per  Capita:   US$559  (1979)                                                                                      Page  5  of  7
UNiTEED SEFUELIC OF CvAIiERFvCN
ECOQ.2iC INDICATCRS(2)
1973       1974        1975        1976,      1977        1975'       1979       i%5J
C-^''JErF  N'T F.      - E  ",'R'st.,Y l
C'jryrFlt Fec2st-s                           159,32      670,395     93,37iO    95,763   120l 901    !L27,fl    200r761   21P,965
tre                                       "I aj J90    5'  C' 0    7- J3,92 1tI29749   142,347
C   hJ-rerlt Sur 1u;  witia adjustz;er,ts  5,719  ?95  121472     19,591      25i769      43, 739    57954       76P518
C ?ltaI E-prAeltu                             12,951      i41253     1S9592 2? 246    j''l343    4t52 75            53,846      589481
t. 'o31  h.,ist.arice (Net)                      900         481       -993    -2,305       12,022       2,97i    -5,774        17,227
th Perceintase o2f 1G.-')
G:rere,t R.eceip,ts                             14.9        13.S        14.6       lSt0        15+ .3      17.3       18A4        16.6
',orr27it E-;2nditure                           12,6        II.?        12,4       12,0        12.0       12.7        11,8        1008
2.jry~r2t  nr,r-ll  (or deficit)                 2.2         1,9        2.2         3,0         3.3        4.7         5.3         5.8
C.a-itei E. Eerlditure                           3.2         2.9        3,.3        4.0         4.1         4.8        4,9         4.4
L terrial Assistarice (r,et)                     0 2         0.1       -0,2        -0.4         1.5         0.3       -0,5         1,3
HM'ONEY, CRFEDiT AK0 F,'ICES /b
Lr, CFri;llioris-erld FPeriod)
er ,     -r, 0-s ic -Morae            7 0 i 32`.   4i458   105Y603   132,452    183,496   212.314    260,088   305Y416
S,r,i Cra ot to Cov2,rigleet                   3.500iJ    5ol2it2     c,3b5       ,b51 19  125         1,555       19,399     267681
B    Car  Lr-jt to the Erl orom               67,701     a7,914    111.444   142?48'.'   204.590   266L,320   323,750   416,613
oe r or In Ne. b2rs
hcreu  t 2: o     ii-Glp[s8  --s % of 1IRF /c   17.6        19.2        18.6       20.2        23.2       22.7        23,8        23,9
Yasuns-!ce Cor!<|ler ari. e Index "a
(1?,7C100)                   124 .       143.3      163.5       18?5,0     206,8       237.4       259,1      "I-7 9 1 
-------i -rer- en-.------- --- r--------
_ _r_ _ _ _~ t _           
!'nij:rJe sCn- '.er Frice Irde                   7.3       14.S        17,6         9.5       11.8        14.8         9,1         7.7
~~-rovgCrdt to Sserrnert                         8.4       137.4       22,0        36.5 -      5 1 .0     26.4        16.8        37,6
V*gL  :.':2'iit to2 thie Econoit2s              1,54        29,9       26.8        27,9        43,6       30,4        21"3        28.7
-ur-lletA b-:, Z2-weToo',Tca  AthOrties wWth  riBr. Staff estimates arid
re jr cca,fl2tjorl.
`c- Ya~l  (Y-        1-Jurle 30) is used,  Year irdicates the erd se3r for each
;:scal  car ,
is SU; is for F1so1, Year,
UEST ARiFF'C4Af CP23
10/2 7/2 1



-22 -
Population:             8.3  million(mid-l979)uNITED REPUBLiC OF CAhEROON                                                LANEX  i
GNP  per  Capita:  US$559  (1979)                        ECONOhMIC INDICATORS(3)  a                                      P2age  6 of  7
1972       1973       1974       1r975       1976       1977       1978        1979       L980
lAL,tMf5 OFF F4AYENTS
,  '-; M1- -. ',,'CF4)    
IT  NILLTI~',3CN  FAF)
73- rt1  P  LD:1S srid MNFS                   8.0!15    9,D606   132?5637   138i946   156y1750   202435    296,CO7   7111FSI17   T8A ,'?'2
c     Os,,AS ari t8                  -f4i4  -l015    -110,44C  -1           V    -1T         - .        -J 9.7 9   -3-J 9  - `3!871
Fe  JrP   -- (eficit --)                      -1755       -11         14i123   -1747         m00   -16f.                7C  ~40/5            356
kt2rot Fm.ncn:lts (iset)                     -1,905    -n2279    -5835    -e,57r -I    ' 1 19,,       -9iQ       12201 * ' 18T584    A1 8 83
!7yT er- 1 Re., ttvI.ces                        123         1U5        SO7      "I 1,        l          R        39  V4     45 67      47925
t         CEvr rsen ; ts (niet)                -6.919    -79498    10,l 1V0    9,7-j6 -e  974           -   ;J'    -EJ510    -6e.66    -6i951
Nlet  2y     ;                                  2,219       2' S7      1,C        'S43        71,3       2.2)       4,t8'       uoll 1301
E1Cj rl 2of cijrrerit Accour1t              -24Y02   -17,8A            L7    -    76   -/7 j174   -23ij    -11X  -17   -2 2253
N--t IPlre  crel   Ir,vest?ent                   2 641    -1,004       3,487      5,443       %p '09     1r503      3!091       9,790    1416 5
TQta Ei V;t N. pi,A  arhd Long-
Teri2 ;opTrwlrAt                             13!657   21-i552        9,188.    1 3.978    28S613      32,016    A4?o77J   .35198    49575
*Ov -'srsaT emets-                       1 ? 351    25,0r, 71  13.P749    20,988      36,458    43 70       u1 5,,        1         2 IO  5?1704
:Aierii3ti-at,iorn                        -2Q, 694    -3Y519    -4f561     -7,010    -7?845   41,078    -266302   -22,252  -A61P29
Trd2e Creii;t ',n'et)                             -706        -37    '2,343       3,768      V2C29      -3'5L       0(9)          610    -1,812
Other rmrt Ten, Canstal                          1,218        -54    -4i751      -49784      -1tE00     -2,28?      % 99    -11,225    -7?.02
Other C3-it31 r.eti.                              -494    -1Y176       23772     -3,755    -5,677    -3,365         1,'3         -215       -569
l:re;55 S3ffiP'3   InltEte FII;EtF31 ReserYes   11,162    11,775    17,503       6,618      10I,84    l049S    1  ''<96    23,507        465?'95
Net 24fi:1 Frsetfn ReserFvs                   11,146      11r763     14!301      2,874         709         60    -2.55L09    2 3f758
_        I        (ReOQ= CFnF IFeri5od Averase)  265O      241.0      230.1      222.4      225.1      2)480       239;      21. 7       209. 2
8CR'. 1,O;"= CF'  (CFeriO  h;eres~e?           273.8       265.5      28)-2     26Si0.2    275,9       28678       ''26.5    277,6       272;3
S URLCE t -Is--e- 'S  t;ne Crsrcc-,iar ;uthorities with Bar;k Staff recIaasificaticrr
er e,' Sci Year (J) 1- -J5ue 33.) is used wih Enrd Year shcwn if,
the t        C- F 
1fl, Lij C   F2B
t,, 0/7S



Population:      8.3 imillion (mid-1979)                                 ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$559 (1979)           - 23 -                          Page 7 of 7
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATORS (4)
(millions US$ at current prices)
_____ -______               -  --------------------------------------------------- -
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
--    - - -  - -  - - -  - -   -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - - -   - -
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT  /a
Gross disbursements
Official grants                           10     20     24     23      11     18
Concessional loans                        31     45     55    122    130    185
DAC                                     13     12     32     40     53      98
OPEC                                     -      6      3     13       6     20
IDA                                      6     16     18     21     19      20
Other                                   12      6      2     48     52      47
Non-concessional loans                    40     83    123    194    187    321
Official export credits                 13      1      9     19     12      75
IBRD                                     3     22      8     15     37      30
Other multilateral                       4      4      1      3     21      10
Private                                 20     56    105    157    117    206
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          274    372    515    837  1,157  1,634
Official                              241    293    346    507    709    996
Of which:  IBRD                         29     50     58      72   102    130
IDA                         34      50     68     88    108    127
Private                                33      79   169    330    448    638
Undisbursed debt                         194    351    486    540    769    989
Debt service
Total service payments                    15     36     39    52    103    126
Interest                                 6     15     19     28     43      64
Payments as % exports                      4.9    5.6    5.5    6.2    8.4    9.4
Average interest rate on new loans (%)       5.9    5.0    4.5    6.3    5.6    9.0
Official                                   3.6    2.5    3.9    4.7    4.4    6.4
Private                                    8.0    9.2    7.6    8.3   10.2   12.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)       15.8   21.3   25.3   17.2   17.6   16.6
Official                                  30.3   32.0   24.8   21.2   28.5   20.0
Private                                   12.7   10-0    9.2    6.8   11.4   10.5
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years  ..  ..  ..          47.0
Maturities due within 10 years ..   ..  .         101.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year  .. ..  ..           6.6
/a End-of-period figures are shown.
West Africa CP2B
10/22/81



- 24 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of d pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAiEROON
Av   Statement cL Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 1, 1981) l/
Loan or                                                          USa million
Credit                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower    Purpose                         Bank    IDA/3  Undisoursed
Ten Credits and nine Loans have been fully disbursed  106.84   117.4              -
320-CM    1972  Cameroon    Education II                               9.0       2.5,2
1039-CM   1974  Cameroon    Cocoa                            6.5                 0.91
575-CM    1975  Cameroon    Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                     3.0       0.53
1245-CM   1976  Cameroon    Education III                   17.0                 9.70
673-CM    1977  Cameroon    Technical Assistance                       4.5       2. 02
723-CM    1977  Cameroon    Rural Development Fund                     7.0       3.81
1391T-CM  1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM                  7.'                 1.7i
1392-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM                 18.0                 4.40
749-CM    1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                               6.5       1.52
1494-CM    1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                    4.6                 4.60
1508-ODCM    1977  Cameroon    Second CAMDEV                15.0                 3.34
776-CM    1978  Camerooni   Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                           8.5       3.81
784-CM    1978  Camneroon    Western Highlands
Rural Development                    13.0       8.50
1512-CM   1978  Cameroon    Second SEMRY Rice               14.5                 2.1.7
1515-CM   1978  Cameroon    Third Highway                   16.5                 0-35
926-CM    1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                            10.0       (,11
1723-CM   1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                  38.0               38.00
936-CM    1979  Cameroon    Fourth Railway                            20.0      11.50
1734-CM   1979  Regifercam  Fourth Railway                  27.0                25.17
1753-CM   1979  Cameroon    Second Water Supply             21.0               20.93
975-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                                15.0       7.87
1791-CM   1980  Camieroon    Hevecam II                     16.5                ib.50
1010-CM   1980  Cameroon    Livestock II                              16.0     16.00
1919-CM   1981  Cameroon    Northern Province Rural
Development                25.0                25.0
1920-CM/2 1981  Cameroon    Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprises II             15.0    ___         15.0
TOTAL                                    348.44   229.90   23i.97
of which has been repaid                18.13      5.97
TOTAL now outstanding                    330.31   223.93
Amount sold                    7.72
of which has been repaid   7.72           -         -
TOTAl now held by Bank
and IDA /3                             322.59   223.93
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                        167.78    64.19   231.'9
/1   A Second Technical Cooperation project was signed on November 5, 1981.
/2   Signed on September 30, 1981, but not yet effective.
/3   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 25 -                   AfNNEX si
Page 2 of 8 pages
SDRs million
Credit                                                  Amount (less cancellations)
Number           Year   Borrower   Purpose                  IDA      Undisbursed
1075-CM          1981   Cameroon   Northern Province
Rural Development      9.5          9.5
Total                              9.5          9.5
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 1, 1981)
Investment  Fiscal
Number     Year   Obligor       Type of Business      Amount in US$ millions
Loan    Equity   Total
311-CM      1975    BATA          Shoe Factory            -       038     0.38
355-CM      1977    SAFACAM I   Rubber Plantation         -       0.81     0.81
430-CM      1979    SAFACAM II  Rubber Plantation         -       0.41     0.41
452-CM      1979    ALUCAM        Non-ferrous metal    7r00    093         7.93
551-CM      1981    SCM           Food and Food Pro-
cessing              1.12      0.20     1.32
578-CM      1981    SOCAVER       Glass Bottle Factory 1.70       0.18     1.88
579-CM      1981    SAFACAM III Rubber Plantation         -       0.25     0.25
Total gross commitments                                 9.82      3.18    13.00
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               -       0.26     0.26
Total commitments now held by IFC                       9.82      2.92    12.74
Total undisbursed                                       2.42      0.43      2.85
C.   Status of Projects in Execution as of September 1, 1981 1/
Cr. No. 320    Second-Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All project-financed institutions are in operation, except for the
adult vocational training center (CENAFOP) in Douala. Recently transferred
from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Labor, this center is now
expected to open in October 1981. Recent changes in personnel are expected
to lead to improvements in project management.
l/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -                   ANNEX JT
Page 3 of 6 pages
Loan No, 1039  Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 1b, 1i94;
Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
Foliowing Bank's recommendations, Government contracted a management
consulting firm to review SODECAO. Its recommendations for the reorganization
of SODECAO have largely been carried out, including the appointment of an
expatriate general manager. Project accounts have been audited u.p to 19791166,.
The new management team installed since May 1980 Is progressively transforming
SODECA0 into an effective development agency.  The September 1980 supervision
mission found SODECAO's 1980/81 budget and work program satisfactory. The
division of responsibilities between SODECAO and SOCOODERs and on tne modalities
to enable FONADER to resume normal credit activities were signed in Cameroon
on July 27, 1981. Therefore, the loan closing date has been extended by six
months to December 31, 1981, by which time the remaining US$0.9 miilion should
be ful-ly disbursedc
Cr. No. 575    Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project;
US$ 3 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date:  July 30, 1976  Closing Date.  December 31, 1981.
The line of credit is fully committed and disburseme-,-ts hnave reached
82 percent. A second line of credit has been approved by the Board
in November 1980.
Loan No. 1734  Fourth Railway Project:  US$27 million Loan of
Cr. NO0 936    August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 22, 19606
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; and US$2U million Credit of
same date; Effectiveness Date: January 22, 198_; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The bidding and contracting phase of the project is in progress.
The contracts for civil works for the new Douala station have Deen finalized
and the earth works are nearly completed.  Construction of road and rail
over-bridges is about 50 percent completed. Detailed engineering studies for
the workshop remodelling and the new maintenance depots in Yaounde are in
progress and are on schedule. Contracts for Phase I of civil works in work-
shops and the depots have just been awarded. Procurement of equipment and
materials is in full swing; approximately 60 percent of contracts have been
final'ized0 Plans have been finalized for remodelling the training school;
equipment is under procurement.  Due to the excessive increase in staffing,
the financial situation of the Regie at the end of FY80 was worrying.  The
Governmer.n- has established a special Commission to review and make recommenda-
tions for improving the financial situation.  The Bank has asked for a copy of
the Commission's report. Staff reduction and adequate tariff adaustments will
be problems in the long run.  However, traffic is steadily increasing; the
railway's operating efficiency is also satisfactory.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Loan No. 1245-T-CM  Third Education Project:  US$17 million Loan of
August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is about two years behind schedule, primarily due
to weak management and problems in dealing with a 34 percent cost overrun
(US$8.4 million) in civil works. Although the Government has made provision
in its FY82 and FY83 budgets to cover part of this overrun, civil works
procurement has been delayed significantly and equipment procurement is
practically at a standstill.  A secondary technical school, transferred from
the previous project is the only one of twelve project institutions in opera-
tion. Construction of five other institutions is expected to be comppeted by
October 1981, two to three years behind the appraisal targets. Construction
of the remaining six institutions will begin soon and :hey should be opera-
tional by October 1982, three to four years behind schedule. Further delays
are likely, however, in view of the unresolved problem of weak project manage-
ment. The Government replaced the Project Director in October 1981, but
recently rejected a contract for much-needed technical assistance for the
Project Unit. We are working with the Government on the main project issues,
but until these matters are resolved, project implementation progress is
likely to deteriorate. Preparation of a possible fourth project has been
suspended until implementation of this third project progresses satisfactorily.
The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed two years.
Cr. No. 673    Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project's funds have been fully committed and most pre-investment
studies financed by it--largely in agriculture, transport and planning--have
been completed. Long-term adivsory consultants are continuing to assist
Cameroonian staff to improve project generation and supervision capacity,
which is being supplemented by on-the-job training and formal training courses.
However, as the second phase has not yet been signed, the contracts of several
advisors whose continuation in past had been anticipated will terminate, thereby
jeopardizing continuity.
Cr. No. 723    Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Project's delayed development continues to accelerate and to
consolidate; standards of physical construction are generally good and the
organization of most sub-projects is good, as are their planning, budgeting,
accounting and reporting. However, the rate of physical development, par-
ticularly for dams, boreholes, pump installation and bottomlands, where



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
achieve-ments are anproximately 40 percent of appraisal targets and corre-
sponding cost overruns are 100 percent, are significant problems.  Develop-
ment of the irrlgated market garden credit scheme and the stall cattle
fattening are reasonable but credit program loan recovery efforts need to be
strengthlened.  G,overnment has requested Bank Group assistance in financing 'or
an enlarged second phase, terms of reference for a preparation study have beern
approved and cornsultants should commence the preparation stage by January
1982.  The Bank has approved a six-month extension to the credit agreement
with 'the aim of covering a fourth corLstruction season (81/82, and coinciding
with initiation of a second phase development.
Ln. No. 1392   Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
US$7 million Third Window Loan of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date:  November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Mew plantIngs under the project are satisfactory though implementa-
tion is slightly behind schedule.  Production potential from earlier plantings
is not being achieved due to lower than expected yields, labor problems, and
processing diffi-culties. Cost to completion is expected to be 12 percent
above appraisal estimate.  SOCAPALM management has been strengthened 3Y the
appointment Of an internal auditor and the financial situation has inrvaod
The positive cash balance as of June 30- 1981, amounts to CFAF 230 mil.l.on
however this is arnsufficient to cover three months of expendit-ures and an
additionasl capital increase of CFAF 1,500 million would be required.
Cr, No, 749    Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit and
Ln., No. 1494   US;6.5 million Loan of December 7, 1977; Effective-
ness Date:  March 7, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
About 29000 hm of feeder roads will be improved and maintained
under the project.  Due to administrative delays in equipment procurement,
major field operations started in March 1980, about one year behind schedule.
The project has :Lately beon handled by some lack of Cameroonian staff.
Project reformulation has been proposed by Government and is substantia'ly
acceptable,
Cr. No, 763    Second SE1IRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
L,n No, 1512   of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5 million Loan
of February 1, 1978; Effective Date: April 14, 1978;
COlSing Date:  September 30, 1984.
A satisfactory solution to the problems of dike erosion and piping
has been found, and no new erosion or piping has occurred in a test zone that
was protected. Permanent dike protectior is now proceeding. Yields are
now approaching appraisal estimates; however continued resettlement is now
believed to be possible only with a careful program to relocate people from
the surrounding areas into the project zone.  Further irrigation works bnave
therefore been suspended until existing land is fully used and more experience



- 29 -eageU   oi5 7                    pages
with resettlement is gained.  Thus funds from the original financial envelope
appear to be sufficient to complete dike protection~ The modest supplemental
financing that is needed to complete the project would be provided by Govern-
ment.
in. No. 1508   Saconmd CkNTE1! Project:  US$15 million Loan or
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  June 30. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Estate p1zizting programs are on target but substantial cost overruns
A         lhave been incurred since FY 1979-80.  CAMDEV business as a whole is in serious
financial difficul ties due to high production cost and low yields per hectare.
This recent deterioration is due to the conjunction of three factors (i)
desincentive of the management staff due to an inadequate pension scheme (ii)
constant conflict between the chairman of the Board and the general manager
whose authority has seriously eroded and (iii) inadequate management structure
and internal control system.  Government is aware that CAMDEV's present
situation requires immediate and drastic improvement, and in order to restore
the Corporation's fitnancial situation and finance the 1981-82 investment
program Government would have to arrange a capital increase of about CFAF 6.0
billion (US$25.5 million).
Ln. No. 1515   Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the Garoua-Figuil road, the last section of the
Trans-Cameroon rail and road route, was satisfactorily completed in 1979.
Technical assistance to the Ministry of Transportation helped to carry cut
a comprehensive origin-destination survey with the final phase having been
completed in mid 1981. Results of the origin-destination survey are expected
to be available shortly. A transport advisor financed under the Project,
is helping the Ministry of Planning evaluate and coordinate the transport
component of the Fifth Development Plan and will finish his term in mid 1982.
A US$5.6 million cost overrun, mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations, has
been covered by the Government.
Cr. No. 784    Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8, 1978;
Closing Date: june 30, 1983.
The project is achieving its objectives and technical and financial
management is good. Although physical execution was lagging behind appraisal
schedules, owing to organizational problems encountered during the first
project year, improvements have been made in all components with correspondirng
increases in procurement and disbursement rates. Government's contributions
to project financing continue to be regular, and liquidity problems due to
delays in preparation of withdrawal applications have been partly rectified.
In response to Government's request for Bank group assistance to extend the
project into a second phase, the FAO/CP carried out an identification mission
in June 1981, which is being followed by a preparation mission in October
1981.  Appraisal is planned for the second half of FY82.



- 30 -                    A_ NEYX I1
Page 7 of & pages
Ln. No. 776    ZAPI East Integrated Rural Development Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978: Effectiveness
Date:  October 4, 1978;  Closing Date:  June 30,_1984.
The project continues to make satisfactorv proareFs. Despite
budgetary constraints, physical implementation of most components approached
targeted Levels for 1980/81. Crop production, processing, disease control,
research and inland fisheries components are developing well.  Reorganization
of extension, credit and distribution services and ZAPI's management structure
is proceeding.  ZAPI's financial situation shows marked improvem.ent. As a
result of internal management reforms and a Government-authorized sub,sidy of
US$2.1 million, ZAPI should be able Lo liquidate its long-standing deficit and
resume program expansion in 1981/82.  At midterm approximately 50 percent of
the IDA credit has been disbursed.
Cr, No. 926    Fourth Highway Project:  US$10 million Credit of August 23,
Ln, No. 1723   1979; Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1979; Closing Date:
Jtne 305 1986; and US$38 million Loan of same date; Ef:Fec-
tiveness Date:  November 15, 1979; Closing Date    U               6
The projecL is now off to a good start; consultanrt  7avalin (Ca-nada)
are al.Fmost fully mobilized; construction of training facilities is about to
begin and orders for equipment should be placed shortly.  The Governrment is
considering expansion of the scope of works for the Bogo-Guirvidig road, the
construction and supervision of contracts for which were let in 1980.  The
road will serve the Semry II rice project in northern Cameroonia  The preinvest-
ment study for the Douala--Yaounde Road is completed. The Bank Group is
considerinig, together with other financing agencies, the financing of the
Edea-Yaounde section of this road (one lot) under a proposed FiP'fth Highlway
Project. An appraisal mission returned to HQ on NovemAber 7, 1980, and a post
appraisal mission oni April 3, 1981.
Cr. No. 975    Second HEVECAM Project; US$15 million Credit of April 18, 1980;
Ln, No. 1791   Date:  September 16, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983;
arnd US$16.5 million Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date:
September 16, 1980; Closing Date: Januarv 30, 1983,
The area planted during PYl, 2,390 ha, exceeded appraisal estimate
by 11 percent. Growth and upkeep are of acceptable standards and root disease
(fomes) is being brought down and kept within manageable proportions.  The PY2
planting target of 2,200 ha is expected to be achi-eved, Expenditures are well
controlled and the overall management is satisfactory.  Disbursements are on
schedule and the financial situation is sound.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1753   Second water Supply Project; US$21 million Loan of December li,
1979; Effectiveness Date:  May 12, 1981; Closing Date:  June 3U,
1984.
This loan has just become effective.  The aims of the project
are to improve and extend water supply systems in 13 secondary centers and
two major cities, Douala and Yaounde; lay the groundwork for organizin6
urban development planning for Douala and Yaounde; initiate a pilot public
health educational project; and strengthen the organization of the water
supply sector. Engineering studies and bidding documents have been prepared,
and the procurement process has started.
Cr. No. 1010   Second Livestock Development Project; US$16 million Credit of
June 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This credit has recently become effective. The project will support
the second phase of Cameroon's "Meat Plan" through three major production
components: a diversified credit program, continued eradication of tsetse
flies from the grazing area of the Adamaoua Plateau, and a strengthening
of veterinary field services. It will also support formal and informal
training, and institutional reforms in aid of the productive components.
Initial progress has been satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1919   Northern Province Rural Development Project:  US$25 million
Cr, No. 1075   Loan of January 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  June 1, 1981
'Closing Date: June 30, 1986; and US$12.5 million Credit
of same date; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project became effective on June 1, 1981 and took off well.
Procurement for iight vehicles and road-making equipment worth some US,4.0
million has been successfully completed. Key project staff has been recruited
and is already in post. Despite a delay in the start of the rainy season,
planting targets for PY1 are in line with SAR estimates.



- 32 -                       ANNEX III
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project                        2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project                        P&T Ministry
(c)  Date of first mission to consider the project            July 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission                   February 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations                       August 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                            March 1982
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Assistance as required in selecting the technical assistance experts.
Section III. Special Conditions
A.   The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
items:
(1) Appointing the General Manager and the Financial Director of the
new P&T entity before signing the second contract (para. 53).
(2) Ensuring that the existing network rehabilitation unit supported by
ITU continues its program of priority works until the new P&T
entity to be established under the proposed project can take over
these responsibilities (para. 40).
(3) Appointing Cameroonian staff to work with the consultants in the P&T
entity, to be trained and subsequently take over the functions for
which they will have been prepared (para. 50).
(4) Ensuring that an adequate commercial accounting system is adopted by
the P&T entity, with separate accounts and budgets kept for each of
its three major branches of activity (para. 57).
(5) Appointing a Steering Committee to supervise and coordinate project
activities, with responsibilities and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank; appointment of the Committee would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para. 52).



MO/I?       -S    R
IAP000~~~~~.  I  ~ ~          ~          40A~~~AA                                                                       tOO"    C"A~E                                                  I
VOLtA' g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*oj  A                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~ 
GUI/ A
/ oNT0A    AEAAIECA 
O0~AVN  'M    7E'iiitO                   6
EXISTING TELEPEl0NE NETWVORK (~7h-19  A).   //                                                                                         MR0A4OU'gt0T4
(40011200)- INA/ED CO/AC/IT (AAX/MIOM) - 
*  O/ H       NGE                                                      *00
LONG 0I0TANCAMTNE0O4( K0
CO TOAt//t NO/YM/
00-      -~~~~~~~~~~~J
[t/ERilTI -A  -umF
is                                                                                                                       N,-M4,  (40C 112(0(040
I GE R IA-   - ~ ~ ,- 
JAk-y,,  0           Nomo                                                  /A,                                                                ~-
W-J//yeN-a 
-  J                 ~~~~F,,,d&,;  K-OOo4tA/12001
B0e/b,                                                                                                                                 E :
<(100/100)                 (/0/00 600/t12
0        kogombal                          '            0/j
T                              Ndk-&        B.f/40/  M,O                                                      ERTLA 14/20/1200)
KBooo    lb.              Ot        1//e                                                     AAv 00000k
(40O~~~~~~~1000)   I ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      N
/12(00,100          D/I///-                                                                   , 
g                                                                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00/   0  0/20 _
~C~AN                               0/4000/                                  GAB(Y~                           3            Cb,(400/12






MAL                                              if-          -  1]25                                                       /e
SOCA A L W,
N  GERI    / '          A'          ;-c                                                              tc
I  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ; 'FCA
~~ ~~~r< ~~Ni                                              N C               R            0c LLnc 4                   -RlADA 
0,r~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Jc
EXISTING MICROWAVE AND VHF/UHF LINKS (1978-1979)~N                 G~  R I                    /oLdb~
MISCAUXHRT/NS  ASTNT(97-D99 
UNTDREPULA/S      AERO
TOWNS7LEHN CANL
/N4T10ENAIE,CTc/A  EPOCAcOAeETF
600OccIE/ERE /TERAA/TcCA/cAcES'
OS/ RELAYE/   '1 A                                                                                               
TON '4  /    / /0     T 
/cy,c                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*-  Tcc                                                T,q,Se-/
Eccefe -~ ~ ~ ~~0                                            'k
-4~~~~~~~~~b
-S E>kccd                  NOd5<
LccdS/i.    cNd- Eoi    KIN/cicgEc! b
MEce/ce 5/0/ ci   M,yAT  Ngceee  Mecce/mim~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0                              fba.f
4'     SL/&EE                                                                                        Ed..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m-cs/t-cpk                    F NcI.   c/K/         ciccccc                                        cc
Sigk.1 HIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         A-c/e.
/NSU/AB S/IN/Al                  Accic,~~~        ~~~. E Ak-1.cc             -cm--
EQUQATTOLRNEIALE                                                    N                     C      NG
GUINEA ~ ~~C/ c/kA sie:                              T                       .






s'.  W J   , J   -   a  >  o      S              : :  4            -s --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD14272
o9 a 7 4 < 88 >XE 0 < i< t 2>> > ~ t-> L?Z
U<gl fl  p}         ; 5 ; 2;>>1) 0 2>  ;'>st  ;4;[; \ 0i>2 1>V;   ; f~~In
4 gf < ~t~ 7}\  \r              4rj'  | ,.>    , b r 
*    [(}  at  S<    V   t        g      |X             S                    aK1N
taN';MAtV   y DDE  D f  -t\'_>iDd   -gl  tX                  oW        v1, _   ,4 n 'S      1 f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LU    L
0 '- 8 ' 0 ' ' 0 7  0  ;  -   X  0   p0\ t  <         '    =4  't; V X       ;n  sts  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,IN, ~
\; i 0 \ 0 \ ; \ QK; t, V \ < _ < 4 \ \\\ 9/ \Xs L / C lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z[iJ<  z Wz M  7  i    fC ( >zk  9   t\\    a\   <     i A   8 er ~~~~e r
\; 0  : ,  \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E Is;!4N$t            )097 Y 0                  -<~    
_ .,~~< '     0i  td      iE       i l E i ' 
k   S0                Mt0  0;itt $*       tz,   *rtXa    W                               \*   X|  :
| .<A-<  r.-- c O- m t. X F2-M t-r- ts;X \i-WJ
p > Q 151: ;28 45 j~~~~~~~~~4-i M @ i 0 ; 0 5 7 \ 9 0 i; \; 2 t 9 ( 2 E 5 2 ( t z j;Kg et < z t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',
9      ii    |  99  5  \\  i2  V0 )  i0  j2  (LL \(  0i  9 ?9>,      '
E i ij1 S; 41 O T f 0 7  t .5 A 7 ._
>1-



