Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15884
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 3575-CO)
June 28, 1996
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Colombian peso (Col$)
Exchange US$1.00 = Col$ 747 (1993)
= Col$ 1070.25 (as of June 25, 1996)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of the Government of Colombia
January 1 - December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
BR                              Banco de la Republica
CA                             Caja Agraria
FINAGRO                        Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector
Agropecuario
FOGAIN                         Fondo de Garantia de Instituciones Financieras
FPF                            Financial Policy Framework
GOC                            Government of Colombia
ICR                            Implementation Completion Report
LA                             Loan Agreement
PCN                            Project Completion Note
SAR                            Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE (PCN)
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
(Ln. 3575-CO)
This is the Project Completion Note (PCN) on Colombia-Agricultural Sector
Credit Project (Ln. 3575-CO). It was prepared by Ms. Anne del Castillo, Consultant, and
reviewed by Messrs. Jonathan Parker, Acting Chief, (LA3NR), and Robert Crown, Project
Adviser, (LA3DR).
This PCN has been prepared in lieu of a Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
because no disbursements took place and the Loan, at the Borrower's request was
cancelled effective January 1, 1995. It is based on internal Bank memoranda, supervision
reports and interviews with Bank staff associated with the Project.
A. Backzround
1.    The project has its origin in the Financial Policy Framework (FPF) agreed to
between the World Bank and the Government of Colombia (GOC) in 1991. The FPF was
a set of guidelines and actions to be taken by the GOC to liberalize its financial sector,
including market-determined interest rates, and encourage the participation of private
institutions in the financial sector. Under the umbrella of the FPF, the Bank and the GOC
had agreed in principle on a set of financial intermediation loans, including the Agricultural
Sector Credit Project, which covered financial institutions in that sector. The project
funds were intended "to help the GOC to adjust, during a transition period, the provision
of agricultural credit towards a market based framework" and inter alia "to promote,
encourage and facilitate the voluntary lending by commercial banks to the agricultural
sector" .
2.    The project was appraised in April, 1992. On August 13, 1993, the Loan
Agreement (LA) for the US$250 million World Bank loan was signed. The project was
declared effective on November 10, 1993. The original closing date was June 30, 1999.
Upon the Borrower's request, the loan, having had no disbursements, was effectively
canceled on January 1, 1995. The primary reason for the Loan's cancellation was the
Government's lack of compliance with the dated covenants and conditions, contained in
the LA, regarding the scheduled liberalization of the agricultural lending rates.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



2
B. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.     Project Objectives. The project's objective was to encourage the private
financial sector to extend loans, especially longer-term loans, to agriculture. To achieve
this, the project intended to introduce several financial reforms, related to the agricultural
sector, which were consistent with those reforms agreed to between the World Bank and
the GOC in the FPF. Specifically, the project proposed to support the Government's
actions to: (i) implement the agreed program of financial and trade reforms; (ii) reduce and
eventually phase-out forced investments', while promoting term-lending and voluntary
lending by commercial banks to the agricultural sector without risking a significant decline
in lending resources; (iii) monitor and analyze agricultural credit demand and supply, and
recommend measures so as to ensure a smooth transition to a market-based credit system;
and (iv) transform Caja Agraria (CA) into an efficient rural financial institution.
4.     Project Description. The project would provide loan funds to Agricultural
Financial Fund (Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario, FINAGRO), the
country's principal second-tier rediscount facility operating in the agricultural sector, to
rediscount agricultural medium- and long-term loans made by commercial banks to finance
investments by farmers and agro-industry. In addition, the project would encourage
reforms to increase the efficiency and financial position of the CA, Colombia's largest
bank and dominant agricultural lender.
C. Maior Factors
5.     Policy Conditionality. The project contained a number of policy conditions
related to financial operations in the agricultural sector. The LA permitted FINAGRO to
draw down the first tranche2 of US$100 million until June 24,1994, when there would be a
mid-term review. As forced investments continued to provide FINAGRO with needed
funds, FINAGRO never met criteria for the release of the funds from the first tranche.
Access to the second tranche, US$150 million was to have been conditioned on: (i) full
liberalization of final interest rates to medium and large farmers, no later than nine months
after project effectiveness; (ii) the restructuring of the CA, as measured against key
performance indicators; and (iii) the continuation of a satisfactory trade regime.
6.    In September, 1993, the Central Bank (BR) issued regulations, fully satisfying the
first condition. These were to have been implemented by April 1, 1994, five months prior
to the date, August 10, 1994, required by the dated loan covenant. However, in
Under the forced investments, each bank was obligated to buy from the Central Bank bonds at below
market rates to the extent that the bank's agricultural portfolio was below a pre-determined target
level. Forced investments represented the primary source of funds for agricultural lending.
2   As this was not an adjustment operation, the term "tranche" is used here to describe amounts
available for rediscount financing when agreed ad hoc criteria, conditions or other covenants were
met.



3
December 1993, Congress nullified this measure by passing Article 12 of Law 101, which
rolled back lending rates to all farmers and postponed any interest rate liberalization at
least until January 1996, with a caveat that future interest rates would remain below
commercial rates. As a result, as of August 10, 1994, the Government had not satisfied
the dated covenant related to interest rate liberalization. It should be noted that, by said
date, FINAGRO had not yet taken the required administrative actions, on its part, so as to
enable it to file withdrawal applications under the first tranche.
7.    In addition, the CA failed to meet the performance indicators as agreed upon in its
Corporate Plan. According to the LA, this would have been sufficient justification for
loan cancellation. But, the Bank decided that cancellation at that time would foreclose the
possibility of achieving the long-term goal of promoting financial reforms. Nevertheless,
the Bank needed to send the GOC a clear signal indicating the seriousness of this default.
On March 1, 1994, the Bank disqualified the CA as the primary financial intermediary for
the project due to its failure to implement an acceptable Corporate Plan and meet key
performance indicators.
8.    In September 1994, while BR challenged the constitutionality of the congressional
prerogative to preempt a BR regulation, the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture
requested the Bank to grant a waiver and postpone the date for the liberalization of
interest rates to January 1996. This would have permitted FINAGRO to use the first
tranche before the Government had implemented its interest rate liberalization. In return,
should Article 12 be declared unconstitutional, the Ministers committed themselves to
begin the liberalization process sooner.
9.    In October 1994, based on the GOC's commitment, the Bank agreed to give
FINAGRO access to the loan's first tranche. A month later, Article 12 was declared
unconstitutional. But, faced with rising market rates and mounting producer organization
opposition, the government, unable to fulfill its commitment, maintained rate controls.
GOC's actions, thus, invalidated the basis for the Bank's decision to make available the
first tranche.
10.   Request for Cancellation. In April 1994, the Borrower had informed the Bank of
its intention to request cancellation. The Bank, desirous to have a serious dialogue on
financial reforms with the incoming Administration, persuaded the Borrower to delay its
request. However, once installed, the new Administration proved to be no more able to
contend with the powerful agricultural lobby and implement the reforms than did its
predecessor. On July 7, 1995, in response to the formal GOC request dated, May 12,
1995, the loan was retroactively canceled, effective January 1, 1995. By then FINAGRO
still had not taken the actions referred to in para. 7. To compensate the Borrower for the
costs incurred by delaying its cancellation request, the Bank, after deducting the costs
associated with project appraisal and supervision, rebated to the Borrower the balance of
the commitment fees paid.



4
11.   Designation of FINAGRO as the Borrower and Implementing Agenc . As the
project was originally designed, the GOC would have been the Borrower and would have
on-lent project funds to FINAGRO, a financial institution under the Ministry of
Agriculture. This approach appeared to be reasonable given that: (i) the GOC would be
able to take full responsibility for the satisfaction of loan conditionality; (ii) the GOC could
closely monitor the reform process of the CA through the on-going supervision of the
Guarantee Fund for Financial Institutions (FOGAFIN); and (iii) FINAGRO was a new and
relatively weak financial institution (established in 1991), having recently assumed the debt
of other public agricultural credit institutions, including the CA. But as a result of a
request made by the Colombian delegation at the negotiations and against the objections
from the Bank's Legal Department, the Loan Borrower was switched from the GOC to
FINAGRO.
12.   The designation of FINAGRO as Borrower and project implementing agency
proved ill-advised. As the very institution the project intended to phase-out, FINAGRO's
interest in obstructing, rather than facilitating, the project should have been foreseeable.
But, the project rationale was that FINAGRO's need for funds would force it to adopt
project reforms. Unfortunately, with the passage of the legislation which continued forced
investments, FINAGRO's financial autonomy was consolidated, thereby eliminating any
immediate need FINAGRO might have had to draw down the Bank's credit line.
13.   Further, FINAGRO had limited ability to effectively pressure CA to improve its
performance targets, as CA did not fall under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture,
but rather under the FOGAFIN. Nevertheless, CA compliance with loan conditions was
crucial to the project, as CA was to have been a primary conduit of project funds flowing
from FINAGRO to the sector and was heavily indebted to FINAGRO.
D. Lessons Learned
14.   The SAR accurately identified possible backsliding on the agreed financial reforms
as a major risk to successful project implementation. While the Bank had performance
covenants in the LA to deal with this eventuality, the Bank could have assessed better the
risk's probability and taken measures to reduce its occurrence (see para. 17). The Bank,
aware of the political sensitivity of the reforms, was prudent to protect the project against
a possible retreat by front-loading the project with conditionality and providing for
recourse within the Mid-Term Review.
15.   The project's chances for success appeared strong as the project had the full
support of the BR, an independent agency with authority over national financial sector
policies. While the Bank could not have been expected to have anticipated the passage of
an unconstitutional legislation blocking the proposed reforms, the Bank could be faulted
for having under-estimated the political clout of the medium to large farmers in Colombia
and the importance they placed upon their access to subsidized credit. Having two World
Bank credit projects recently accept interest rate caps for the industrial sector, made the
call for their removal for the agricultural sector particularly difficult.



5
16.   Certain actions could have been taken which might have helped to mitigate the risk
of a Government retreat on reforms. During project preparation, maintaining open
communication and collaborating with all agencies and political groups directly involved in
or affected by the reforms could have improved the chance of a successful outcome. In
this regard, as the agricultural sector, and not the financial sector, was the most seriously
and immediately affected by the reforms, preparation efforts could have focused more on
identification of sectoral needs and consensus-building within the farm sector. Given that
the agricultural sector was experiencing a period of low market prices for its major export
commodities, as well as adjusting to the shock of trade liberalization, packages to
temporarily compensate the sector for the loss of subsidized credit could have made the
reforms more palatable to some political groups in the sector. As mentioned above (see
para. 12-14), project implementation might have been facilitated with a more appropriate
Borrower and/or project implementing agency.
17.   Bank management was steadfast in pursuing the project objective of financial
reform for the agricultural sector, and, at the same time, maintaining credibility and an
open dialogue with the Borrower. When presented with grounds for default, the Bank
prudently delayed closing the loan, deciding instead to send a strong signal to the
government concerning its failure to comply with loan covenants.
18.   However, after thorough consultations with two Administrations, and once it
became sufficiently evident that the GOC, despite their statements to the contrary, would
not be able to muster sufficient political support to implement proposed reforms, the Bank
canceled the loan.















IMAGING
Report Nc.        15lB64
Type: PCN



