A---~~~~~ ~~~~~ AX  -c    /
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-  \           :                                     Report No. 10840-Co
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
FEBRUAPY 25, 1993
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
Exchange Rate (1993)
Us$1.00 = ColS 747
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BR          -      Central Bank (Banco de la RepCablica)
CIAT        -      International Center for Tropical Agriculture
(Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical)
CNCA        -      National Commission for Agricultural Credit
(Comisi6n Nacional de Credito Agropecuario)
DTF         -      Money Market Deposits (Dep6sitos a Termino Fijo)
EMP         -      Economic Modernization Program
FEDERACAFE  -      National Federation of Colombian Coffee Growers
(Federaci6n Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia)
FFAP        -      The Agriculture and Livestock Financing Fund
(Fondo Financiero Agropecuario)
FINAGRO     -      Fund for Financing the Agricultural Sector
(Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario)
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
ICA         -     Colombian Agricultural Institute
-     (Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario)
IDEMA       -     Agricultural Marketing Institute
(Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario)
IFI         -     Industrial Development Institute
(Instituto de Fomento Industrial)
INCORA      -     Colombian Agrarian Reform Institute
(Instituto Colombiano de Reforma Agraria)
HIMAT       -     Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and
Land Preparation
(Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
Adecuaci6n de Tierras)
PFI         -      Participating Financial Intermediary
PROEXPO     -     Export Promotion Fund
(Fondo de Promoci6n de Exportaciones)
QR          -      Quantitative Restriction
SOE         -      Statement of Expenditure



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
X                ~~~~~COLOMI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PR_OJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     LOAN AND PROJECT SMtMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
II.    COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANg GROUP'S ASSISTANC<E STRATEGY  . . .    3
Recent Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  3
Achievements: The Economic Modernization Program . . . . .    3
Economic Performance: 1990-91  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Recent Developments: 1992  . ...............    4
Medium-term Economic Prospects   ......   . . . . . .     5
Colombia's External Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Colombia's Development Agenda  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Areas for Action .    .   . . .   . .   . . . . . . . . . . ..  9
Institutional Agenda . . . . .    . . .     ..   .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   12
Proposed Bank Assistance .A.s...t.. ................   13
A Changing Role for the Bank. . . . . .  . .. . . . . .   13
Objectives and Composition . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Vehicles for Bank Assistance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Program Size . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . .   17
III.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  .................  .    18
Structure, Performance and Constraints  .  .  .  .         .  .   .  .   18
Agricultural Trade and Pricing Policy Reform . .. . . . . .  20
Supply Response  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    21
The Formal Agricultural Credit System  . . . . . .   . . .  21
Agricultural Credit Supply and Demand  . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Previous Bank Involvement in the Agricultural and Credit
Sectors in Colombia . . . . . . . .   .   . . . . .  . . .  ..  27
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . .  27
IV.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Origin and Relation to Country Strategy  . . . . . . . . . .  29
Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Agricultural Credit Policy Framework . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
This report is based on the findings of ar appraisal mission that visited
Colombia in April 1992. The mission comprised Messrs. V. Ferrer (Mission
Leader) and R. Simsolo (LA3AG). The Country Assistance Strategy section was
prepared by the Country Division (LA3CI). The Department Director and Sector
Division Chief were Messrs. Toshiaki Abe and Douglas Porno, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
Table of Content. (cont'd)
Page No.
Support to Private Banks Participation in Agricultural
Lending      4  9  o  o  o  a  o  o  o  o  o  9  9  *  *  o  9  *  a  a  9  oo  9 *      34
Reform of CajaAgraria    . .................. ........a...a...  35
Project Cost and Financing . . a . .. . . . . . . . . . .. .    37
Lending Terms and Conditions.  . .. . . .   . . .  . . . . .  37
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .    40
Procurement  .. . . . . .. a. ..  . .a  . . . . ... ..... ..  .  41
Disbursement .... . .. . .... ... ... . . . ... ... ... .. .    41
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
Mid-Term Review  .            . . . . . . .  . .  . . a . .. .a . . ...aa  43
Project Benefdts and Risks aiuka * 9    .a....................     43
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
Recomnendation . . . ..... .. .. .. .. .. ..  .  .. .. ... ..     45
ANNEX 1
FINAGRO   .   .     ....      ..............  .             46
ANNEX 2
Caja Agraria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   63
ANNEX 3
Agricultural Credit Policy Framevork . . . . . . . . . . . .  87
ANNEX 4
Policy matrix  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  90
ANNEX 5
Agricultural Trade and Pricing Reform  . . . . . . . . . . .  93
ANNEX 6 
Experience with Bank Lending for Agricultural Credit
Project in Colombia  . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  .  113
ANNEX 7
Agricultural Credit Statistics . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 116
ANNEX 8
Selected Documents in Project File . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118



1. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Fund for the Financing of the Agricultural Sector - FINAGRO
Guarantor:     Republic of Colombia
Imolementlna   Fund for the Financing the Agricultural Sector (FINAGRO);
Agenciest      Agricultural Bank (Caja Agraria).
Beneficiaries: Farmers, farmer groups and enterprises involved in
agricultural production and marketing.
Loan Amount:   US$250 million equivalent, to be repaid in 17 years on an
annuity basis, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending      FINAGRO would onlend the proceeds of the loan to Participating
Termas         Financial Intermediaries (PFIs), in dollars and/or in pesos,
and charge: (a) for peso loans, the fully variable deposit
rate of the Colombian banking system (DTF), which is presently
sufficient to cover foreign exchange risks, the cross currency
risk and ad-ninistrative costs; the rate will be monitored and
adjusted whenever the DTF is inadequate to cover the
above; and (b) for dollar loans, a rate reflecting at least
the Bank's interest rate and commitment charge, plus a fee to
cover the cross currency risk and administrative costs. The
methodology to obtain these two rates would be consistent
with that of the BR for determining its rediscount rate.
Relending rates would be determined by the PFIs according to
maturity, credit risk, operational costs and market
conditions.
Prolect        The proposed loan would, during an interim period of two and
Oblectives:    one-half years, help the Government adjust the provision of
agricultural credit to a market-based framework.
Specifically, it would support the Government's actions to:
(i) implement the agreed program of financial and trade
reforms; (ii) promote, encourage and facilitate voluntary
lending by commercial banks to the agricult -1 sector without
incurring a significant decline in lending resources;
(iii) monitor and analyze agricultural credit demand and
supply, and recommend measures to ensure a smooth transition
to market-based credit system, including the phasing out of
forced investments; and (iv) transform Caja Agraria, the
largest bank serving the rural sector, into an efficient rural
financial institution.
Proiect        The proposed project would provide US$250 million of loan
Description:   funds to PIPMGRO to be used to rediscount medium- and long-
term loans to iinance on-farm investments, agroindustry and
related working capi.l.  The project would also help ensure
the implementation of Caja Agraria's Corporate Plan aime4 at
restructuring, rationalizing and recapitalizing the
institution.



-2-
Benefits and   The project would support Colombia's move away from forced
Risks:          investments, directed lending and subsidized interest rates
for agriculture, to market determined resource mobillzation
and interest rates, and would ensure the maintenance of the
present acceptable agricultural trade regime. It would
support policy and institutional reforms in the agricultural
financial sector, while meeting the financing gap for term
lending during the transition. Through such measures, the
project would ensure that credit would be available to
agriculture at a time of macroeconomic and trade policy
reforms, and thereby boost the capacity for a supply response.
The project would also play a central role in moving private
banks more quickly along the learning curve towards voluntary
agricultural lending, leverage FINAGRO's rediscounting towards
term lending, reduce the role of FINAGRO in financing the
sector, and restore Caja's viability as a specialized rural
financial institution, primarily to serve small farmer credit
needs. The main risk of the project is that Caja Agraria's
reform program, as well as the agricultural credit and trade
reform program, will be delayed or softened because of the
political sensitivity to some of the measures proposed. The
Government's commitment to both reform programs lessens such
risks.
Estimated Cost and                        Local         Foreign       Total
Financing Plan:                           ---(US$ million)---------
Beneficiaries                             302.0            -            302
Financial Intermediaries                  379.0            -            379
FINAGRO                                   445.3          145.7          591
World Bank                                  -            250.0          250
Total                     1,126.3          395.7        1,522
Estimated                 --------------------IBRD Fiscal Year-----
Disbursements:            1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Annual                    25.0    10.0    70.0    70.0    50.0    15.0   £0.0
Cumulative                25.0    35.0   105.0   175.0   225.0   240.0   250.0
Rate of Return:      Subprojects under the project would show at least a 121
financial rate of return in real terms.
gap: Not applicable



-3-
II~  COTRY POLICIES AND   N  gRO S ASSISTANCE STR&TEGY
Rleent Performn_ce
2.1         Colombia has changed rapidly in the past two years.  President
Gaviria's election in 1990 coincided with a referendum that approved changing
Colombia's Constitution. It also marked the entry of a new generation in
Goverament. In its first 18 months, the administration gained wide support
for its bold policy initiatives and proved its ability to secure the passage
of major legislation in Congress. This was best exemplified by the
acceleration of economic reforms In 1990-91.
Achievements: The Economic Modernization Program
2.2         During the 1980s Colombia not only achieved one of the highest
growth rates in the region, but also the most stable growth path. This
performance masked structural deficiencies, however. The stagnant
productivity in most sectors suggests that the growth in output depended on
greater capital inputs. Recognizing that macroeconomic measures alone would
be insufficient to raise productivity in the lo.g term, the Barco
administration launched in 1990 the Economic Modernization Program (EMP) -- a
set of structural reforms and supporting macroeconomic policies to improve the
efficiency of resource allocation and use. On taking office, the Gaviria
administration asserted its commitment to the EMP, and sharply accelerated the
program's implementation.
2.3         Trade Reform.  The centerpi3ce of the EMP was a trade reform
program, which envisaged the gradual elimination of quantitative restrictions
(QRs) on manufactured imports and scheduled reductions ih the levels and
dispersion of tariffs to reach an average tariff rate of 152 in 1994. Taking
advantage of a strong balance of payments, the Government advanced the
timetable for implementation. QRs on industrial imports--which formerly
covered 80X of domestic production--were lifted ahead of schedule in November
1990. And in August 1991, the Government advanced the 1994 tariff targets for
immediate implementation. The Government also went beyond the original scope
of the EMP by extending trade liberalization to agriculture. The state
monopoly on imports of key agricultural products was eliminated and replaced
with a variable tariff scheme. Progress in completing a regional trade
agreement under the Andean Pact has been slow, but Colombia and Venezuela have
freed their bilateral trade and adopted common external tariffs. A free-trade
agreement between Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela is being negotiated and is
expected to be ready in early 1994. This may help lock in the liberal trade
policies of each of these countries.
2.4         ComDlementary Reforms.  To improve resource mobility and
facilitate the supply response to the trade liberalization, reforms in the
financial sector authorized ownerehip of financial institutions by foreign
investors and free entry into all segments of the market subject only to
prudential requirements. Access to foreign exchange was improved, and the
Government liberalized direct foreign investment. The labor regime was
modified, although perhaps not forcefully enough, to reduce labor rigidities



-4-
and facilitate industry restructuring. Reforms ir. the public sector were to
improve the efficiency and focus of public expenditures. Public monopolies
were eliminated in sectors critical to trade flows, including railways, ports:
shipping, and agri.ultural marketing. Most of the Governsent's non-oil
industrial holdin1g were divested, as were three of the five banks
nationalized during the banking crisis of 1982-85, and further divestment is
underway. The intention to reorient the role of the state in a liberalized
economy was spelled out in the Government's 1990-94 Development Plan, which
emphasizes the social sectors, infrastructure, and environmental protecticn.
Economic Performar.ce: 1990-91
2.5         The macroeconomic policias accompanying the EMP were designed to
support the structural reforms while pursuing stabilization--difficult since
the Government needed to adjust to rapidly changing domestic and external
circumstances. The results, so far, have been mixed. In 1989-90, in
anticipati,in of the trade reform, the Government depreciated the real exchange
rate by 181. Nontraditional exports grew 241 in 1990. Together with the
increase in oil prices and the expansion of petroleum exports, the current
account surplus in 1990 was equal to 1.5X of GDP. Exports contributed much to
the GDP growth of 4.11--accompanied, however, by a burst of inflation, which
reached a 15-year peak of 32Z in 1990.
2.6         In 1991 the authorities tightened fiscal and credit policies to
reduce inflation. As envisaged, the deficit of the non-financial public
sector was reduced from 0.81 of GDP in 1990 to 0.11 in 1991, and domestic
interest rates rose sharply. But this rise--combined with falling world
interest rates and a slower depreciation of the peso--widened the differential
between the returns on peso and dollar assets, encouraglng strong capital
inflows partly fed by drug money. The capital inflows undermined the tight
monetary policy, strengthened the balance 'f payments, and resulted in an 81
real appreciation of the peso during 1991. By accelerating trade
liberalization, the Government aimed to reduce the growing external imbalance,
but success was limited as imports were slow to respond. The 12-month
inflation rate hovered around 30-312 during the first seven months of the
year, falling only to 271 by year-end. Real GDP growth was relatively weak at
2.2Z in 1991.
Recent Developments: 1992
2.7         Economic growth accelerated in 1992 despite a crisis in the power
sector and increased insecurity due to political and drug-related violence.
GDP growth for 1992 is estimated at 3.6Z, although inflation remained at about
25Z. A major new oil discovery in 1992 promises to have an important impact
over the medium-term.
2.8         Power Sector Crisis.  Despite its long financial crieis, the power
sector has traditionally provided dependable service. This changed from
February 1992, when electricity rationing was implemented eight hours daily.
The main factor behind the rationing, despite apparent overcapacity in the
largely hydro system, was a severe drought. But this alone would not have led
to rationing in the absence of deep institutional flaws. These include



neglect in maintaining thermal plants, inadequate dispatching in 1991, when
cash-strapped utilities kept thermal plants Idle and let reaervoair levels fall
dangerously to achieve short-term fuel savings, and high electricity use due
to non-technical losses and underpricing of residential consumption. In
response to the crisis, the Government took steps to speed the completion of
stalled public generation projects (mainly the Guavic dam) and has authorized
private investment in generation.  Even so, large-scale rationing is expected
to last through early 1993, exacting a heavy toll on economic growth, living
conditions, and consumer and investor confidence.
2.9         Insecuritv.  The Gaviria administration was credited for reducing
drug-related violence, anchoring the 1-19 into the political mainstream and
initiating peace talks wvith other guerrilla groups. But there was little
progress in the talks as guerrilla groups escalated their demands for reversal
of the trade reform and full nationalisation of the oil industry and failed to
restrain their violent activities. The talks broke in May 1992, leading to a
new wave of violence, and the Government opted fow a military solution. The
embarrassing escape of Pablo Escobar in July 1992 further undr mined the
Government's efforts to curb illegal activities and created new security
concerns.
2.10        The Cusiana Oil Find. Exploratory work indicates that a larp' oil
deposit exists in the Cusiana area. Although reliable estimates of oil
reserves will be available only in 1993, industry analysts suggest figures
over 2 billion barrels--more than Colombia's current proven reserves of 1.8
billion barrels, and a jump in the country's oil potential. Increased
production would boost exports and fiscal revenues in the medium term,
allowing for a higher growth path, while putting continued pressure on the
real exchange rate and the competitiveness of non-oil tradables.
Medium-term Economic Prosnects
2.11        With ample and diverse natural resources, moderate population
growth, a literate workforce, a resilient entrepreneurial class, and a
tradition of competent economic management, Colombia has strong potential for
sustaining Srowth and improving living conditions. The Cusiana oil find and
the structural reforms should put it on a faster growth path--sustained GDP
growth of more than 5S a year is within reach in the medium term. In this
century, Colombia can become a competitive upper-middle-income economy with a
fast-growing service sector, a more selective but also more efficient and
outward-oriented manufacturing sector, and a strong export base. A leaner and
more focused public sector would sharply increase the attention to basic needs
and ensure that the poor have access to the opportunities of a growing
economy.
2.12        But Colombia must surmount major hurdles to fulfill its
development potential. To create a supportive environment for private sector
development, the government should remove remaining dis:ortions in the signals
sent to produuers, overhaul regulations now irrelevant to the country's
development model, address infrastructure boctlenecks, upgrade the skills of
the labor force, and curb violence. The government also needs to strengthen
its social outreach to ensurs that the poor share the benefits of development.



-6-
And it should put iacentives and controls in piace to stem environmentral
degradation, ensuring that growth is not achieved by running down Colombia's
natural assets. These priorities are clearly set forth in the government's
development plan, the Revoluci6n Pacifica. To deliver on the plan, the
government needs to upgrade the weak institutional capacities in its line
agencies, make decentralization york, and enlist the private sector in the
provision of public services.
2.13        In line with its development policy agenda, Colombia is expected
to consolidate the gains of the structural reform of the past two yeare and
accelerate the pace of economic growth. The strategy of private-sector-led
growth is expected to change the structure of the Colombian economy in the
19908. In response to the newly created incentive structure and the
implementation of an appropriate regulatory framework, private investment is
projected to increase while the savings-investment balance for the private
sectcr shifts from a surplus to a deficit. This turnaround in the private
saving-investment balance is to accompany the steady reduction of the current
account surplus, and the increased space provided by the public sector as it
moves from a deficit to a surplus (Table 1).   The private-sector-led growth
model uses resources more efficiently, bringing the ICOR back to its levels
during the 1970s, and puts the economy on a 61 annual growth path between 1996
and 2001.



-7-
Table 1- Selected economic Indicators, I91-2001
percent)
Privatwe-ctor-kd-growth
&Lms ~    nrofocted
1991   1992* 1994  2001
Real growth rates
GDP                                 2.2    3.6   S.0   6.0
GDP per capita                      0.6    1.9   3.3   4.5
Privatc consumption per capita     -0.1    2.0   2.6   5.0
National aocounts (as % of current GDP)
Gross domestio investment          16.1   17.8  21.0  22.3
Private investment                  10.2   11.3  12.9  14.2
Public investment                   5.9    6.5   8.1   8.1
ICOR                                4.S    5.3   4.7   3.2
Savings-investment balanoes/a (as % of current GDP)
Public sector                       0.5   -0.8  -0.3   1.3
Private sector                      5.4    3.4   1.6  -1.6
Current account balanec             5.9    2.6   1.2  -0.2
Creditworthiness indicators
DOD/GDP                             40.0   36.0  29.4  15.8
DOD/exports                        168.6  179.8  147.5  95.3
Total debt service/exports         35.2   37.6  30.6  16.7
Inflaton, year-end                     26.8   25.1  22.0  14.0
/a Figures derived fiom RMSM-X modeL
(*) Growth rates for 1992 are early estmates.
Colombia's External Environment
2.14        External conditions should not be critical in determining
Colombia's economic prospects given its demonstrated ability to manage
external shocks and its strong balance of payments. Indeed, a temporary drop
in oil prices, a rise in international interest rates, a falling US dollar, or
a reversal of capital flows would work in favor of reducing the short and
medium term balance of payments surpluses, softening the required
stabilization effort. In addition. tructural changes in Colombia over the
past few years should make it less vulnerable to external shocks.
Nontraditional exports now exceed exports of any single commodity, lowering
Colombia's vulnerability to commodity price movements. The economy is also
less vulnerable to interest rate hikes as the stock of debt falls.
International reserves stand at over nine months of imports of goods and
services, er.ough to cover negative external shocks or reversals of capital
flows for some time. But these cushions cannot fully isolate Colombia's
future growth path from the influences of external factors. The international



-8-
prices of coffee and oil will be of particular importance. Other elements of
the external envirosment which could prove important are those related to
direct foreign investment, regional trade agreements and the demand for
illegal drugs.
2.15        Colombia's dependence on coffee for export revenue has fallen from
over half of total exports in the 1970s to less than one fifth. However,
fluctuations in international coffee prices still impose an important
adjustment burden on the economy through their fiscal impact and their
economic and social effects in the coffee-growing regions. Prospects for a
recovery in international coffee prices from their current low levels appear
very limited. Importing countr4es now hold large coffee stocks, growth in
world coffee consumption is slow, and a new international coffee agreement
does not appear likely any time soon. In response, coffee production in
Colombia is expected to decline from the current 17 million bags per year to
15.5 million bags by the late 90es. In contrast, Colombian petroleum exports
are expected to more than double in the next five years, as the recently-
discovered reserves in Cusiana are brought into production. As oil exports
grow and the economy adjusts to the new foreign exchange earnings,
fluctuations in international oil prices will have increasing effects on both
the balance of payments and on the consolidated fiscal deficit through the
surpluses and deficits of the public petroleum company.
2.16        Direct foreign investment (DFI) is expected to cover about half of
required net capital flows in the coming years, with the balance coming about
equally from commercial banks and suppliers' credit, and official multilateral
and bilateral lending. Even though there has been an increase in foreign
investment, as a result of the Government's efforts to liberalize its DFI
legal framework and offer substantial parity in the treatment given to
domestic and foreign investment, most of the increase in DFI in the near
future is expected to be in the traditional extractive industries (coal and
petroleum). Foreign investment in other sectors may be constrained by
security concerns.
2.17        The structure of production and trade will continue to change as
the result of the trade liberalization program begun in 1990 and the regional
trade agreements that Colombia is negotiating with its neighbors. Early in
1992 Colombia signed a bilateral agreement with Venezuela opening up trade
between the two countries and adopting common external tariffs. The volume
and diversification of Colombian exports to Venezuela have risen dramatically,
and Colombia has received increasing volumes of Venezuelan foreign investment,
particularly in the financial sector. Although progress in completing a trade
agreement under the Andean Pact has been slow, agreement on a common external
tariff between Colombia, Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador is expected by
September 1993. Colombia is also conducting bilateral trade negotiations with
Mexico and Chile.
2.18        The demand for illegal drug exports has had and will continue to
have an effect on macroeconomic management. There can be little question that
the large capital inflows observed in the last two years were fed in part by
drug money, in response to both financial incentives in Colombia and to more
forceful pursuit of drug-related financial assets by U.S. authorities. As to



-9-
the future, the volume of illicit activity in Colombia vill continue to be
influenced by drug policies in other countries, particularly the United
States. On the one hand, etrieter enforcement of anti-drug lawv could reduce
the demand for drugs from Colombia; on the other, stronger surveillance of the
drug cartel's capital assets held outside Colombia vould increase the share of
drug revenues which flow into the country.
The Bank's Country Assistance Strateav
Colombia's Development Agenda
2.19        Although its medium-term economic prospects are favorable,
Co'.ombia still faces important challenges to fulfill its development
potential. To create a supportive environment for private sector development,
the Government should remove remaining distortions in the signals sent to
producers, overhaul regulations now irrelevant to the country's development
model, address infrastructure bottlenecks, upgrade the skills of the labor
force, and curb violence. The Government also needs to strengthen its social
outreach to ensure that the poor share the benefits of development. And it
should put incentives and controls in place to stem environmental degradation,
ensuring that growth is not achieved by running down Colombia's natural
assets. These priorities are clearly set forth in the Government's
development plant "La Revoluci6n Pacifica." To deliver on the plan, the
Government needs to ulrade the weak institutional capacities in its line
agencies, make decentralization work, and enlist the private sector in the
provision of public services.
Areas for Action
2.20        Resource Allocation.  Efficient resource allocation based on clear
price signals should be the basis for Colombia's output and income growth.
The recent liberalization of trade, finance, and foreign investment have
removed the main distortions that for many years have bent resource use. But
significant work remains. In the financial sector, forced investments have
been reduced and their returns are being brought gradually closer to market
levels. In trade, the tax reimbursement scheme for exports includes a subsidy
element for Government-picked priority sectors or export destinations. Major
price distortions persist for publicly managed goods including fossil fuels,
electricity and water. Continuing progress in these areas will directly
improve allocative efficiency and--perhaps more important--convince producers
of the Government's resolve to refrain from future tampering with markets.
Just as critical will be the Government's commitment to maintain a sound
fiscal stance--to leave space for private investment and curb price
uncertainty associated with high inflation. The Government will need to rein
in current expenditures, curb tax evasion, phase out subsidies to utilities
and fossil fuels, and depart from a pattern of wasteful major projects that
dragged down economy-wide returns on investment in the 19808.
2.21        Regulations and regulatory bodies, built for a dirigiste state in
a protected economy, are largely irrelevant to Colombia'e new development
model. Colombia not only needs less regulation; it needs a different sort of



- 10 -
regulation to foster competition. For instance, tight controls have stifled
the volume and diversity of instruments in the securities markets but failed
to curb insider trading or foster transparent disclosure. Policy change can
be fast, but the detailed design and implementation of a market-friendly
regulatory environment requires time-consuming efforts. Priority areas to
ease the response of the productive sectors to the trade reform include the
capital markets, regulations for importing technology, and supervision of
utilities.
2.22        Infrastructure.  Electricity rationing has brought home the
importance of reliable utilities--and shown how far the sector has
deteriorated. Long-standing problems of efficiency and pricing in the water
supply and power sectors are due mainly to a tradition of management
instability, political interference, soft budget constraints in municipal
enterprises and inadequate national policies for pricing and utility
supervision. A new regulatory environment is needed to shield utilities from
political interference, allow private entry, foster efficiency gains and
ensure that these gains benefit the users.
2.23        The transport system has not kept pace with the growth of trade
flows, and a large share of production and consumption is in the central
regions of Colombia. Transport accounts for an average 302 of costs for the
main traded goods, against 10-202 in most countries, and surveys of exporters
cite improved infrastructure as their highest stated priority for Government
support. In addition to completing the privatization of ports, the Government
needs to address shortfalls in the funding, timeliness, and quality of
maintenance of primary highways. Another challenge is to carry out in an
orderly fashion the proposed decentralization of regional and feeder roads,
critical for reducing food costs and raising farm income. Sustainable
irrigation systems, with greater user involvement in investment decisions and
management, are also needed to increase productivity in agriculture. The
Government has yet to develop an agenda to address large-city congestion,
which hinders efficiency in an increasingly urban economy.
2.24        Skills.  The Government needs to step up its human resource
development effort and build the skills and aptitudes needed to fuel a
changing economy. Workers in industry and agriculture need new skills to meet
the challenge of international competition. The average schooling of the
Colombian labor force (about 6 years) compares favorably with regional and
country income group averages--but is still a far cry from the fast-growing
Asian countries (9-10 years). Education expenditures have declined in the
late 1980s--they are now lower than regional comparators, and their non-wage
component is only a fraction of the needs. Priorities are to achieve
universal coverage and a better quality of primary education, expand and
improve secondary education, ensure timely retraining of workers to reduce the
social costs of industry restructuring, and develop training of farmers and
extension services to ease adjustment to the liberalization of agricultural
trade.
2.25        Reachina the Poor.  The poor will not share in the benefits of
growth, or contribute to it, unless they are healthy and educated enough to
take advantage of new economic opportunities. Colombia has reduced poverty



- 11 -
steadily over the last three decades. Solid economic growth, a drop in
population growth, and expanded coverage of water supply, health care, and
primary education have produced sharp improvements in infant mortality, life
expectancy, and literacy. These indicators are now better than regional or
country income group comparators. But disparities in income, wealth, and
living standards between regions and socioeconomic groups are striking and
contribute to social disintegration.
2.26        Social expenditures have stagnated in the 19809 as a proportion of
GDP and have declined as a proportion of public expenditures. Service
deficits remain high (25Z of the population lack access to basic health care,
272 to safe water). The positive trends of service coverage indicators often
mask serious shortfalls in service quality and efficiency--most water
treatment systems are in disrepair or poorly operated, and the high enrollment
ratio in primary schools partly reflects a high repetition rate. In some
areas, targeting remains poor--over one half of public spending for health
goes to a nealth insurance scheme which covers only one-fifth of the
population and mostly benefits the middle-income group. And a new challenge
is to address the social costs of the economic reforms, especially in already
poor rural areas where marginal crop production may be displaced by the
liberalization of agricultural trade.
2.27        Progress in social outreach requires a change in delivery modes to
expand service coverage while improving equity, efficiency and service
quality. The Government plans to pursue these objectives in three main ways.
It will increase social spending and concentrate that spending on basic
services and programs selected for their impact on the very poor. It will
improve responsiveness to local needs through decentralization. And it will
improve efficiency and user choice by promoting private delivery of services
and replacing subsidies to service producers with targeted grants to eligible
beneficiaries. But it has yet to pin down the specifics for implementing
these policies. The risks are that social programs could be stalled or
derailed by weak administrative capacities in central and local Government
agencies--or that they could, as in 1991, bear the brunt of fiscal
contraction.
2.28        The Environment.  Capacities for environmental management are
weak, and past policies for pricing natural resources, infrastructure
development, and the titling of new land have encouraged environmental damage.
Environmental awareness has grown in the past few years, however, and the new
Constitution includes environmental management among the main duties of the
state. The Government has launched programs to strengthen park and watershed
management, promote reforestation, and make environmental assessments
mandatory for all major investments. It intends to unite the previously
dispersed responsibilities for environmental protection under a new ministry.
But developing effective onvironmental management capabilities will be a
long-term undertaking. In the short term, the Government should design ways
for the new ministry to relay its action through regional agencies, local
governments, and market incentives. It should set priorities among
environmental objectives (managing water and protecting biodiversity should be
high on the agenda) and integrate its environmental agenda with sectoral
strategies for energy, mining, agriculture, industry, and infrastructure.



_ 12 -
Institutional Atenda
2.29        ImDlementation CaDacities.  The development plan presents a clear
analysis of the main challenges ahead and outlines a coherent set of policies
to steer Colombia to a course of sustainable growth with equity. Colombia
has, however, been characterized by a growing "implementation gap" between
policy formulation and results, best evidenced by the delays in key reform and
investment programs of the development plan. Bridging this gap will require a
major overhaul in the way Government works. Accountability and efficiency
must be established to stem the cost of Government and most of all to deliver
the public goods that entrepreneurs and the poor need. Reforms are under way
for key Government processes including financial management and procurement,
but considerable work is needed on procedures, skills and information systems
to make these changes operational. A priority is to set up monitoring systems
so that Government agencies account for how they spend and for the
developmental output they produce. Another is to upgrade tax administration
to ensure that the Government can provide timely funding for its programs
without incurring large deficits.
2.30        Managina Decentralization.  Following the Constitutional mandate,
the development plan relies on subnational governments to perform key
functions in its programs for human resource development, infrastructure, and
the environment. The risks of this reliance are best evidenced by Colombia's
experience in decentralizing urban infrastructure in the 1980s. Investment
picked up, and the relevance to local needs improved. But the weak management
of many local governments detracted from efficiency, sustainability, and
targeting in the services decentralized. The Government has learned from
this. The decentralization of urban infrastructure may have been a
free-for-all, but the Government intends to make the devolution of regional
roads, health, and education a more managed process.
2.31        The Government's decentralization strategy has four key features.
One is to design incentives (revenue-sharing, matching grants) for local
governments to support national policies. The second is to start by reforming
sector agencies in central government and strengthening regional agencies
(largely bypassed in the 80s) that will in turn advise local governments. The
third is to decentralize gradually, by requiring departments and
municipalities to meet minimal criteria before they graduate into the
devolution process. The fourth is to match devolution with a greater
accountability by monitoring performance and attaching strings, including the
capacity to intervene non-performing local governments or withhold transfers
from them. Still, major work is needed to pin down the implementation details
of these measures, and doubts surround the operational design of the revenue-
sharing arrangements being proposed. The high turnover of local governments
may frustrate capacity building efforts in many constituencies, and the risks
of sloth or waste in local investment are daunting. Strengthening local
governments is a long-term undertaking, and the ambitious targets of the
Revoluci6n Pacifica may need to be revised downward.
2.32        Contestabilitv and user voice in public services should be the
main tools to achieve the institutional objectives of the development plan.
In some areas privatization of infrastructure is the most promising way to get



- 13 -
around the inefficiencies of public monopoly. The Government should pursue
its plans for encouraging private participation in the power sector, promoting
competitive tendering of water service concessions, devolving irrigation
districts to water user associations, and replacing or complementing public
provision with targeted demand-side subsidies (e.g., secondary education
vouchers, prepaid health care) to improve user choice and reduce dead weight
in social spending. In services for which competition is not possible,
accountability to users should be fostered. This requires greater community
involvement in planning and monitoring services and publicizing an agency's
performance indicators.
Proposed Bank Assistance
A Changing Role for the Bank
2.33        The Bank has supported many sectors of Colombia's development, but
the thrust of its assistance effort in the 1980s and early 1990i was to
establish a policy environment supportive of long-term growth. This is
largely done, and the Bank has played a part through its timely analytical
work, advice, and lending. Policy change in the past two years has exceeded
the Bank's expectations--but institutional reforms have been slower, and weak
project design and implementation capacities have constrained new lending and
disbursements. In designing a Bank strategy responsive to the next stage in
Colombia's development, we recognize four key factors: the progress in the
structural reforms, the strong external position, the adoption of a coherent
medium-term development agenda, and the weak implementation record.
Consolidating the structural reforms remains a key to Colombia's
development, but the progress achieved warrants a greater emphasis
than in the past on other constraints that are becoming binding:
an obsolete regulatory environment, human resource gaps, inequity
and social unrest, infrastructure bottlenecks, threats to the
natural asset base, and weak public sector agencies. Sound
policies have been formulated to addrazs these issues. The
challenge will be to help the Government bridge a growing gap
between policy formulation and implementation.
e     Colombia's creditworthiness could support a large program, but
transferring resources will not be an important oSjective given
the country's strong external and fiscal position. Even though
the Government has been prepaying Bank debt, it has asked the Bank
to maintain a strong lending program--not primarily for financial
reasons, but to ensure that its sectoral reforms and priority
projects are well designed and that implementing agencies are
subject to greater discipline. The value added of Bank
involvement will thus hinge on its ability to mobilize outside
expertise, help the Government design its sectoral policies, and
provide continuity and structure in the implementation of
investment projects.



- 14 -
Obiectives and Composition
2.34        Proaram Obiectives.  The Bank supports the Government's
development plan as a well-conceived effort to steer Colombia to a course of
sustainable growth with equity. The program objectives are to help the
Government consolidate and daepen its structural reforms, support
private-sector-led growth by improving the skills of the labor force anad
ensuring efficient provision of infrastructure and utility services, improve
the delivery of basic services so that the poor participate in the benefits of
growmth, start addressing the degradation of the natural resource base, and
build institutional capacities.
2.35        Comnosition.  In volume, past lending has emphasized policy-based
loans, credit to the private sector, and power sector Investment. This will
shift toward a greater participation of human resource development,
infrastructure, institutional development, and natural resource management.
The proposed lending program includes four broad components:
*     Private Sector Develr=ment (402).  Lending proposed for FY93-94
involves operations with a strong trade and financial sector
policy content, geared at deepening and locking in the structural
reforms. The Agriculture Sector Credit Project is among this
group of operations. Subsequent lending will focus on providing
indirect support to the private sector by helping the Government
improve the regulatory environment, especially in the capital
markets, develop human resources, facilitate technology transfer
in both agriculture and industry, improve the pension system, and
strengthen public sector management. Projects considered include
Financial Markets, Secondary Education and Technical Assistance on
Public Sector Financial Management.
*     Infrastructure (271).  An important component of the lending
program will focus on the improvement of physical infrastructure,
an essential ingredient in the private sector development effort.
Operations in this category respond to the need to reform and
expand utilities, and upgrade urban and regional infrastructure.
A Private Sector Energy Development Project, for example,
envisages the use of innovative instruments to facilitate private
sector involvement in power generation.
*     Poverty Alleviation (231).  This component aims to reach the poor
by expanding the coverage and improving the delivery of basic
services--including primary health care, child care, primary
education, and water supply. Bank assistance will be geared at
ensuring that local governments are provided with appropriate
incentives and support to discharge their expanded role in the
social sectors. Primary Education Expansion II is among the
projects being developed.
*     Environmental Management (101).  The main theme of our
environmental work in Colombia will be water resource management.
This theme is consistent with the watershed-based organization of



- 15 -
regional EPA's in Colombia, and a high priority for the Government
in the context of hydropower shortage and severe pollution of
major waterways.
Vehicles for Bank Assistance
2.36        Proiect vehicles will mainly include sector investment loans
conditional on progress of sector reforms and supporting a time-slice or
subset of Government investments in the sector. In the context of
decentralization, loans for infrastructure, rural development, and the social
s,ctors will channel funds through national agencies for subprojects
implemented by regional and local governments. Funding arrangements through
conditional credit or matching grants will be designed to promote equity,
efficiency and sound financial management. Our lending should recognize sharp
disparities in institutional capacity among subnational governments. Up-front
eligibility criteria for investment subprojects will concentrate our
assistance on capable local agencies. But this could detract from equity as
the poorest constituencies tend to be also the weakest--hence the need to use
regional relays, provide vigorous outreach to help weaker agencies graduate
into our programs, and use new delivery modes including NGO and private sector
participation. A key will be to continue strengthening the capacity of
national intermediaries (e.g., DRI Fund, FINDETER) to leverage Bank advice and
supervision.
2.37        Financing Private Sector DeveloDment.  The Bank will concentrate
its private sector development effort on indirect measures aimed at improving
the social, physical, and regulatory infrastructure. Financial market
failures and the need to transfer resources to the private sector are expected
to decline, as is the volume of Bank-financed credit operations. The
on-lending terms of Bank funds will continue to reflect scarcity and signal
the last-resort nature of these resources to avoid stifling commercial
alternatives, including the IFC. The Bank will also lend for public assets
operated by private firms in natural monopolies, such as distribution networks
in utilities.
2.38        Portfolio management will have priority in allocating our
resources. In recent implementation of the existing loan portfolio has not
met expectations. Problems include weak or uncommitted implementing
institutions, shortage of counterpart funds in some cases, poor financial
management, and procurement delays. Projects in infrastructure and irrigation
have been most problematic. Disbursements during FY90-92 averaged 26Z of
undisbursed balances. Given these problems, success in turning around a weak
portfolio will be a gauge of our ability to enhance quality, which is central
to the proposed strategy. The Department has started to leverage its
supervision resources by expanding the role of the resident mission which has
hired long-term local consultants. Core ministries are also involved in
supervision under performance contracts with project agencies. Lessons from
experience are incorporated in project and program design. Programming
missions are linked to implementation reviews, and new lending to achievement
in existing projects. For instance, new lending for irrigation will be
considered only after existing problem projects in the sector are restructured
and their cost recovery issues addressed. Up-front conditions are being used



- 16 -
to secure institutional reforms early, test borrower commitment to reforms,
and concentrate our lending on capable institutions. The Department
recognizes that the Bank's operational emphases cannot be all pursued in each
project, ane encourages task managers to streamline project focus and design.
And projects and the lending program are kept to a size consistent with the
absorptive capacity of implementing agencies.
2.39        Managing Technical Assistance.  With a major institutional
re-mapping under way and severe capacity gaps, the needs for institutional
development technical assistance (IDTA) are huge. The Government's interest
for Bank involvement in IDTA has also sharply increased in the past two years.
IDTA is resource-intensive, however, and we need to concentrate our inputs on
key bottlenecks. Bank-supported IDTA will include designing regulatory
reforms to support private sector development (eg. capital markets, power
sector restructuring) and improving core Government processes, especially
financial management, performance monitoring, and tax administration. It will
also support decentralization.
2.40        Decentralization-related IDTA is the riskiest, most complex
element given the many agencies involved. Three guiding principles will help
make it manageable and effective. First, all IDTA programs should have
monitorable outputs and specific agreed targets. Second, the Bank will
leverage its IDTA by concentrating it on central and regional Government
agencies, which will in turn assist municipalities. And third, this
assistance will complement, not replace, the hard incentives provided to local
governments--through revenue-sharing, project financing arrangements, and the
accountability to users. That accountability involves user voice (e.g.,
involving school councils in education planning), user choice (e.g., education
vouchers), and user information (e.g., publishing performance indicators).
2.41        Economic and Sector Work and Policy Dialogue.  The Department will
maintain a strong policy advice capability to assist the Government in
consolidating and deepening the structural reforms. Emphasis will be on the
regulatory environment for private sector development, the corresponding role
of the financial sector, and the level, efficiency and targeting of public
expenditures. A CEM/Public Sector Expenditure Review, a Private Sector
Assessment and a Poverty Assessment will be the main instruments for policy
dialogue in 1994 with the in-coming administration. Sector work will be
geared at starting projects on a sound analytical footing and building up our
pipeline. Areas of emphasis will include natural resource management, poverty
alleviation, and operational consequences of decentralization.
2.42        IPC.  The IFC is playing an Important role in Colombia.  Its
project pipeline includes lending of about US$140 million in FY93 as well as
an international equity issue. The IFC does not currently face exposure
constraints in Colombia. The Corporation's strategy is to help with the
industrial rebuilding of large and medium-sized companies. The IFC is active
in attracting foreign capital and technology to the oil and coal sectors. It
is assisting in the privatization of infrastructure and financing of projects
in power generation, telecommunications, gas pipelines, and ports. In
addition, the Corporation is trying to bring premier Colombian companies to
the international loan syndication, bond, and equity markets.



- 17 -
2.43        Donor Coordination.  A main objective in donor coordination is to
maintain consistency and work-sharing, mainly with the IDE, which has
programmed lending of about US$400 million a year in FY93-96. The IMF has no
program in Colombia, but is currently doing bi-annual Article IV consultations
with Bank participation, as provided under the Bank's on-going Public Sector
Reform Loan. We will continue to help Colombia mobilize concessional
resources (such as those of the JGF and GEP) to help build our lending
pipeline and promote innovative or global programs.
Program Size
2.44        Lending volumes will be subject to continuity in the structural
reforms, the pace of the sector reforms needed to make project benefits
sustainable, and project-specific conditions. Financial sector loans will
continue to be linked to maintenance of the trade reform and implementation of
an agreed Financial Policy Framework. Loans for power and water hinge on
reforms to improve contestability, efficiency, and pricing in these sectors.
Highways lending is subject to continued progress on fuel pricing, and two
urban infrastructure loans depend on a financial adjustment of the Bogota
District and its water company. We do not foresee the use of program-wide
triggers, but consistent lack of progress in reforming the key sectors
considered would likely result in lower lending levels.
2.45        Steady progress in all the above sectors would result in lending
of about US$1.7 billion in 17 loans during FY93-96--or about US$425 million
per year. We see this amount as a maximum, as Colombia's external position
rules out adjustment lending, and higher volumes of investment lending would
likely conflict with quality objectives given the weak absorptive capacity of
agencies in the infrastructure and social sectors. It is likely that reforms
in some sectors or the preparation of some projects will be delayed;
considering individual sector and project risks, the expected value of our
lending is about US$325 million per year.
2.46        IBRD exposure in Colombia has historically been high.  The ratio
of IBRD debt service to exports reached a peak of 7.9 percent in 1990.
Taking advantage of the capital inflows to reduce its external debt, the
Government recently prepaid US$230 million of Bank debt. Together with the
projected growth in exports, this is expected to put the ratio of IBRD debt
service to exports back below the 62 Bank guideline by 1996 even if lending
reaches US$1.7 billion during FY93-96. The ratio of preferred to total public
debt service is projected to increase as the Government reduces its total
borrowing but elects (for developmental rather than financial reasons) to keep
a strong program with IDB and IBRD. From a medium-term perspective, the risks
to the Bank are expected to decline due to improvements in overall debt
service indicators, the minimal financing needs of the Government, an expected
decline in IBRD outstanding debt during the next few years, and Colombia's
strong foreign exchange position. Although the downside risk of policy
slippage is low, constant monitoring is required given the large debt owed by
Colombia to the Bank (US$3.4 billion at the end of FY92).



- 18 -
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Structures Performance and Constraints
3.1         Agriculture, fishing and forestry account for about 222 of GDP,
provide employment for three million people--302 of the labor force--and
contribute about two-thirds of merchandise exports. Of this, coffee accounts
for about 422 of agricultural exports value (in 1989: US$1,586 million out of
total agricultural exports of US$2,482 million). Coffee's contribution to the
agricultural GDP is estimated at 122; other permanent crops: 312; annual
crops: 20X; and livestock: 372. Coffee production volumes had remained fairly
constant over the last two decades before the break-down of the International
Coffee Agreement in September 1989., but some diversification has occurred
within the non-coffee agricultural exports (e.g., flowers and tropical
fruits).
3.2         Growth of agricultural GDP in Colombia, which was good in the
1970-1980 period (averaging about 4.52), slowed between 1980-1985 to 1.12
p.a., but picked up again in 1986 to about 22 and 4.52 in 1987. Between 1988
and 1990, the growth rate remained at about 3.52 p.a. In 1991 growth of the
agricultural GDP again reached 4.62. The slowdown in the early 1980s was
attributed to weakening demand for Colombia's non-coffee exports and to the
appreciation of the real exchange rate. It may also have reflected the steady
decline in public sector investment expenditure for agriculture during the
decade of the 1970s and early 19809. The recovery in the late 1980s and in
1991 is attributed to the impact of the macroeconomic reforms.
3.3         Colombia has a total land area of 114 million ha, of which about
33 million ha, or 302, are considered suitable for agricultural production
(14 million ha for crops, and 19 million ha for grazing). Of this area, about
27 million ha are presently under cultivation. Land use surveys, carried out
for almost half the land area, indicate that seasonal and annual crops cover
about 1.8 million ha, permanent crops about 2.4 million ha, and livestock
production about 23 million ha. The Andean region is by far the most
important agricultural zone with more that 60% of the land in crops, followed
by the Caribbean and inter-Andean valleys with 182 and 132 respectively of the
total.
3.4         Three typical farming practices prevail:  (i) modern agriculture
located primarily on flat and relatively fertile lands involving capital-
intensive technology and high productivity (accounting for about 102 of the
area under production); (ii) traditional agriculture typical for mountainous
land (the Andean zones) and the tropical lowlands (coastal zone)--traditional
agriculture is marked by labor-intensive technology and low productivity; and
(iii) transition agriculture in which modern and traditional technologies are
both used by a mixture of small, medium and large producers.
3.5         Demand projections for agricultural products by the year 2000,
prepared by SAC, an agricultural private sector study group, estimate that
between 29 and 30 million ha would be required to be in production by the turn
of the century to meet the expected demand for foodstuffs, by agroindustries



- 19 -
and for expanding exports of agricultural commodities.  Compared to the
27 million ha now under cultivation, Colombia needs to bring an additional 2
to 3 million ha into production. Land availability is not a constraint.
However, the existing pattern of land distribution and ownership, and lack of
an adequate transport infrastructure (which would be costly to provide) limit
the incorporation of idle land into production.
3.6         The present pattern of landholding size imposes a physical limit
to productivity, as well as a climate-related crop risk. The agricultural
sector consists of about 2 million holdings with about 2.5 million owners.
About 1.7 million farms, or 852 of the total have less than 20 ha each
(including 56Z with less than 3 ha). In addition, Colombia, because of its
location and topography, has a wide range of temperature, and rainfall varies
from 5,000 mm/year in Chaco to 400 mm/year in Guajira. Altitude and
temperature determine the period of crop maturity while the seasonality of
rainfall dictates planting dates and, in association with soil
characteristics, leads to seasonal moisture deficits. This is aggravated by
the limited mo,.sture retention of the soils in the Andean slopes (where a
large part of the small farmers are located), which further reduce crop
yields.
3.7         Because of the erratic pattern of rainfall, a limited irrigation
network is another constraint. In Colombia, only about 600,000 ha are under
irrigation, equivalent to less than 12 of the total land area and about 22 of
the 27 million ha under agricultural usee'. About 802 of operating
irrigation infrastructure, or about 500,000 ha was developed and is managed
and maintained by the private sector with the Government simply regulating
water rights; most of this irrigated land is located on some of the most
fertile soils of Colombia. Public sector investment in irritation began in
the 19409 and expanded rapidly during the agrarian reform push of the 1960s,
when, as a reaction to widespread violence in the countryside, the Agrarian
Reform Law was passed (1961) to colonize and settle new frontier lands and
develop public irrigation schemes. Public irrigation/drainage systems uere
developed in 25 districts covering about 375,000 ha, of which only about
110,000 ha were actually irrigated. Political support for the agrarian reform
decreased after 1970, leading to reduced budgetary appropriations. As a
result, about a third of the public sector area did not receive adequate
infrastructure, either because the required physical investment was not
completed, or because of insufficient water resources locally. Budgetary
constraints and the inability or unwillingness of tlhe public sector to collect
water charges from beneficiaries who were receiving poor irrigation services
contributed to inadequate maintenance of the irrigation districts. The end-
result of this vicious cycle of deterioration of service and cost recovery
shortfalls was that by 1984 almost 501 of the 110,000 ha under irrigation were
underutilized, being used for low value crops, or for extensive livestock.
1/    The area under irrigation in Colombia is small in comparison for
instance with Mexico and Peru, where 2.12 and 4%, respectively, of the
total land area were under irrigation in 1983.



20
Aaricultural Trade and PicInS Policv Reform
3.8         Trade and PricinaPolicies.  Historically$ before the EMP,
Colombia's agricultural trade and pricing policies were designed to stimulate
the country's self-sufficiency in agricultural products and to ensure the
financial viability of a wide variety of products, including import
substitution crops. Most producer prices were administered by the Government
and linked to domestic production costs. Imports and exports were regulated
through a comprehensive system of licenses, quotas, import duties and export
taxes. Imports of food were controlled and handled by IDEMA, a public sector
price stabilization and marketing organization under the Ministry of
Agriculture. This trade and pricing system has contributed to inefficient
allocation of resources within agriculture, high costs for consumers, and with
increasing degree of self-sufficiency, marketing problems, in particular
during periods when administered domestic prices exceeded border prices.
3.9         The EMP's also addressed agricultural trade reform.  Originally,
it was envisaged to reduce the protection of agriculture graduall; in a phased
program by 1994, However, in August 1991 the Government decided to accelerate
the implementation of the general trade reforms and implement the final 1994
targets of tariff reductions including in agriculture. For a group of
"sensitive" commodities a price band scheme was established, which was
gradually expanded and refined until May 1992, when the reforms were
completed1'. This system is now also applied as common external trade regime
under the Free Trade Agreement with Venezuela.
3.10        The new external trade regime in agriculture, in force from
May 1992, is characterized by the following reform elements: (a) all
quantitative restrictions (QRs) on agricultural imports, except wheat and
those associated with health and safety, have been eliminated and replaced by
ad valorem tariffs; (b) imports of nine groups of "sensitive" agricultural
commodities and their derivatives and substitutes (wheat, rice, maize,
sorghum, soybeans, barley, vegetable oils, sugar and milk powder) are
regulated through a price band scheme whose main purpose is to stabilize
domestic producer prices; (c) the basic ad valorem tariffs were reduced and
consolidated into four levels of 5, 10, 152 and 202; (d) the tariff surcharge,
used to generate earmarked resources for export subsidies, IDEMA and
agricultural housing programs, has been consolidated with the nevJ basic tariff
levels; (e) the export subsidy CERT (Certificado de Reembolso Tributario),
used to compensate exporters of certain products for indirect taxes paid, has
been simplified and is slated for elimination within two yearsG; and
(f) remaining export restrictions were eliminated and export taxes reduced.
The economy-wide trade reforms under the EMP have reduced the overall, import-
weighted average tariff protection, including the surcharge, from about 30% in
1990 to about 132 in 1992, and in agriculture from 282 to 15Z (the simple
average in agriculture '461ined from 452 to 15X in the same period - Annex 5,
Appendix 1, Tables I to 4). However, while the basic thrust of the EMP with
regard to trade reforms has been completed, the ongoing process of
establishing an Andean Free Trade Zone between Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador,
2/    For details see Annex 5.



- 21 -
Peru and Bolivia may lead to future adjustments of the Colombian trade regime,
both with regard to trade within and outside the proposed free trade zone.
3.11        Government interventions in domestic marketinx have been reduced.
With the introduction of price bands for sensitive imports on June 1, 1991,
IDEMA lost its monopoly in food imports. IDEMA has refocused its
interventions on agricultural marketing in marginal areas, e.g., the depressed
regions included under the National Rehabilitation Program, on managing food
reserve stocks as required, and on marketing of commodities in which the
private sector is not interested, in particular to maintain minimum guarantee
prices of six basic food crops produced mainly by small farmers (para. 2.28).
3.12        Producer support prices for six basic food crops (wheat, maize,
soybean, sorghum, barley and rice (paddy) have been replaced by "minimum
auarantee prices". These new minimum guarantee prices are set twice per year
before the start of the agricultural seasons, and correspond to the floor
prices under the price band system (less the costs of storage and drying),
thereby linking these prices to international price developments. IDEMA would
purchase these products at the guaranteed price and sell later at higher spot
prices. The future role, functions and financing of IDEMA are being redefined
in the context of the Public Sector Reform Loan (Loan 3278-CO).
Supplv ResRonse
3.13        The enhanced market orientation of the agricultural trade and
price policies are expected to guide the sector to seek greater opportunities
on the export markets and produce increasingly those goods that can be sold
abroad, or which can compete with imported prcducts. While some of those
farmers who produce commodities, in which the country does not have a
comparative advantage, such as cereals and oil crops, and who are unable or
unwilling to switch to more profitable crops, may be negatively affected in
the short term as a result of trade liberalization, the overall supply
response of che sector is expected to be positive. In effect, the reduction
of the import tariffs, the enhanced availability of credit resulting from the
financial sector reforms, improved productivity due to technology development
and technical assistance to farmers, and improved marketing and infrastructure
development would lower production costs, stimulate investment, further
contribute to a more efficient use of the available resources and increase
income generation in the sector.
The Formal Agricultural Credit System
3.14        The Aericulture and Livestock Financing Fund (FFAP).  From 1967 to
1990, the main source of formal agricultural credit was the Agriculture and
Livestock Financing Fund (FFAP) a rediscount window of Banco de la
Rep(iblica (BR). PFAP funds were used to rediscount loans made by financial
intermediaries to the agriculture and livestock sectors. BR's resources for
such directed credit were obtained from low yielding bonds (remunerated
substantially below market rates) which banking institutions, excluding the
banks specializing in agricultural lending (Caja Agraria, and Bancos Ganadero
and Cafetero) were required to hold in lieu of mandatory reserves. Between
1987 and 1990, about half of all forced investments made by the entire banking



- 22 -
system were channelled to FPAP for rediscounting agricultural loans, including
loans made by the three specialized agriculture/livestock banks. The amount
of resources, interest rates, rediscount margin, and lending ceilings for
specific crops or activities were annually set by the Monetary Board. Lending
rates for medium- and large-sckle farmers were generally positive in relation
to inflation, but lower than market rates. Small farmer lending was highly
subsidized. Rediscounting was provided for 702 of the amount of the loans
and, until 1985, the administered interest rate was applied to the whole
amount of the loan including the bank's 30% contribution from their own funds.
From 1986 onwards, the remuneration of the banks' own resources was linked,
but not equal, to market rates.
3.15        Under this system, the returns on the banks' own resources used in
connection with FFAP rediscounting were lower than lending alternatives that
were available at full market rates. Nevertheless, rediscounting was
attractive to the banks because it allowed them to recover, at a low cost,
lending resources they had foregone through forced investments, and which
generated additional income, even when complementing them with their own
higher-cost resources. However, while this system of forced investments,
combined with directed credit and non-market lending rates, ensured that
limited amounts of cheap resources were channeled to farmers, the allocations
were rationed, and implicitly inequitable, discretionary ar.d uncertain. The
existing distortions in the financial system may also have led to ecoromically
inefficient resource allocations. Another major distortion resulting from
this system was that the private banking sector was "crowded out" by these
arrangements for agricultural credit. Hence, voluntary commercial banks
lending to agriculture was insignificant (see Table 1, Annex 8). In 1988,
total lending by the commercial banking sector (excluding Caja Agraria)
reached Col$ 1,425,000 million, of which Col$ 117,000 million (or 8%) went to
agriculture; Col$ 12,600 million, or 11X Was direct lending, and the balance
associated with rediscount operations.
Agricultural Credit SuPDly and Demand
3.16        Total estimated lending to all sectors by the commercial banking
system (excluding Caja Agraria) in 1988, the last year for which complete
statistics are available from BR, amounted to Col$ 1,426,000 million. Caja
Agraria lent another Col$ 304 thousand million, making a total of Col$ 1,730
thousand million or about US$5,195 million. Of this lending volume,
Col$ 421,000 million, or about US$1,264 million (24%), was lent for
agriculture (Table 2, Annex 8). BR provisional figures indicate that total
bank lending to agriculture increased by 2.9Z to US$1,301 million in 1989, and
remained at that level in 1990, with the share of each source remaining
approximately the same. Caja Agraria alone lent US$912 million to agriculture
in 1988, or 72% of all lending to the sector. Of this, US$336 million, or 60%
of FFAP's rediscounts, were made to Caja Agraria. Of Caja Agraria's lending,
63% was for small farmers, whereas only 24% of FFAP's rediscounts were for
small farmers.
3.17        Between 1988 and 1990, the resources provided by FFAP for
agricultural credit remained constant in real terms. The resources were
limited by the volume of portfolio requirements that were imposed upon the



- 23 -
banking sector and therefore un-elated to the effective credit demand.  Under
this system, the demand for credit exceeded the available resources, as
evidenced by the following:  (i) F.!AP had to ration its funds by setting
ceilings (usually between 70-802 of the production or investment costs net of
the borrower's contribution) for financing of crops; (ii) FPAP's annual
resources were generally exhausted by September of each year; and (iii) while
it can be assumed that the low, eubsidized interest rates increased the demand
for credit, this demand continued to remain strong even as lending rates
increased in nominal terms from an annual average of 26.32 in 1988 to 41.9X in
1991. These rates were, in real terms, equivalent to minus 2 percentage
points and plus 15.1 points respectively.  The continued strong credit demand
also indicates that interest rates, because they were regulated, had not
reached their clearing level. Table 3 of Annex 8 shows the evolution of the
different lending parameters:
3.18        The National Agricultural Credit Svstem.  A major policy shift in
the administration of formal agricultural credit occurred in 1989, when part
of the responsibility was transferred from BR to the Ministry of Agriculture.
Under this arrangement, currently in force, the Monetary Board (later the
Supervisory Board of the Central Bank) decides on the amount and interest rate
of portfolio requirements to be allocated to agriculture, while the sector
determines the distribution and use of these resources. This new "National
Agricultural Credit System" was created by Law 16 of January 22, 1990, with
two main objectives: (i) formulation of credit policies for the sector; and
(ii) coordination and rationalization of its financial resources. The System
includes the banks, the livestock funds, and other financial institutions
which have financing of the agricultural sector as their principal objective.
The System is administered by the National Commission for Aaricultural Credit
(Comisi6n Nacional de Credito Agropecuario, CNCA). Its six-member executtve
board is composed of the Minister of Agriculture as President of CNCA, the
Head of the National Planning Department, the General Manager of BR, two
members appointed by the President of the Republic, and one representative
from the financial institutions and the agricultural producers association.
CNCA's decisions are implemented by the Fund for Financing the Agricultural
Sector (Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario, FINAGRO).
FINAGRO acts as the Technical Secretariat of CNCA. The Monetary Board
Resolution No. 77 of December 28, 1990, dictates the parameters within which
FINAGRO operates, e.g., the mobilization of resources through the sale of
bonds to financial institutions, the level of mandatory subscription of such
bonds by the banking sector and their remuneration, and the interest rate
structure that FINAGRO would apply to its rediscount operations. The
rediscount margin is determined by CNCA.
3.19        The Fund for Financina the Aaricultural Sector (FINAGRO).  Law 16
of 1990, created FINAGRO as an administratively autonomous national financial
and credit institution under the Ministry of Agriculture. Annex l gives a
full description of FINAGRO. FINAGRO replaced, and took over all assets and
liabilities of the former FFAP. FINAGRO's initial equity is Col$ 50 thousand
million (about US$100 million), of which Col$ 25 thousand million
(US$50 million) was called and paid-up as follows: Col$ 15 thousand million
were provided by the Government, and the balance subscribed by the other banks
and institutions participating in the National Agricultural Credit System



- 24 -
(para. 3.31), mainly stata-owned institutionso/. FINAGRO started its
operations on January 21, 1991, and contracted BR services, initially for a
transitory period of one year, but since extended annually, to issue and place
FINAGRO bonds, transfer rediscounting funds to the financial institutions, and
manage FINAGRO's portfolio and ('abt service. Financial resources of FINAGRO
include its equity capital and portfolio requirements on financial
institutions. These institutions are required to lend to agriculture an
amount equivalent to 7Z of their deposits (net mandatory reserves) or to
subscribe an equivalent amount of FINAGRO - issued A Bonds (2X) for lending to
small farmers*/ and B Bonds (52) for general lending. FINAGRO is also
authorized to issue bonds to capture funds on the financial markets, subject
to the Monetary Board regulations. FINAGRO's resources also include
collections from the former FPAP portfolio and a one-time issuance of class C
Bonds to finance the repayments of all outstanding FFAP forced investment
instruments. The C Bonds are to be amortized in the four-year period ending
in 1994.
3.20        The Monetary Board regulations for Class A Bonds originally
allowed FINAGRO to capture 11 of the financial institutions' deposits
liability (net of mandatory reserves) as a forced investment.  On May 8, 1992,
the Central Bank, by its Resolution No. 28, doubled the resources mobilized
through A Bonds by increasing the 11 portfolio requirement to 21. A Bonds are
remunerated below market rates. Neither FINAGRO, nor Caja Agraria, the main
user of these funds, can mobilize additional resources on the same terms
beyond the limits set by the Central Bank. The volume of subsidized lending
to small farmers by FINAGRO, through Caja Agraria, is thus limited to the
proceeds of these Class A Bonds plus the collections from the small farmer
portfolio taken over from FlAP.
3.21        Class B Bonds which generate FINAGRO's resources for general
lending, originally captured 61 of the financial institutions' deposits
liability (net of mandatury reserves). These resources were to correspond
with the same amount in real terms that was previously rediscounted by FFAP to
medium/large-scale farmers. However, in order to reduce the amount of forced
investments by the banking sector, Resolution No. 77 introduced two features
that limit the resources that FINAGRO would receive from these Class B Bonds:
(i) lending for agriculture by banks or financial institutions with their own
resources, on equivalent terms to those for rediscounts from FINAGRO, can be
deducted from their purchase of Class B Bonds; and (ii) for the period until
1994, the amount of Class C Bonds still held by banks and financial
institutions can also be deducted from their quota subscription to
3/    Since the subscription to the capital of FINAGRO, two of these
institutions are moving to the private sector; one, Banco Ganadero, has
already been privatized, and the process is underway for the second,
Banco Cafetero.
4/    A small farmer is defined (in 1992) as an agricultural producer with an
equity not exceeding Col$ 7.6 million (about US$11,000), and a total
annual family income not exceeding Col$ 3.8 million (about US$5,500), of
which not les6 than 751 is from agriculture.



-25-
Class B Bonds. As a result of this mechanism, FINAGRO'o expected cash inflow
from the sale of Class B Bonds would be much lower than vhat FFAP used to
mobilize with the old instruments. On May 8, 1992, the Central Bank further
reduced these resources by limitint the portfolio requirement to 5S, instead
of the original 61.
3.22        Cala Agraria.  Caja de Cr6dito Agrario, Industrial y Ninero is
Colombia's largest bank and dominant lender to agriculture, both in terms of
volume and coverage of the small farmer sector. As of December 31, 1991, it
had 836 branches covering the entire country. From its creation in 1931, Caja
was to provide loans and general services to farmers, and supply agricultural
inputs. In 1944 Caja's scope of operations was widened to include the sale of
insurance. Caja was originally dosi4ned as a credit union, with 252 of its
equity held by Government, 101 by commercial banks, 4X by the Coffee Fund, and
611 by its borrowers. However, the attempt to mobilize private capital from
borrowers and banks failed. Government raised its participation to 961 and
Caja became effectively part of the public sector. As of March 1991, Caja's
authorized capital was Col$ 100,000 million (US$200 million equivalent),
divided into about 1,800,000 shares of Col$ 55. Of this capital,
Col$ 63,767 million has been paid-up by the Government.
3.23        Caja is governed by a five-member board (Junta Directiva) composed
of the Minister of Agriculture as Chairman, and the Minister of Finance, two
representatives nominated by the President of the Republic, and one
representative from the National Commission for Agricultural Credit
(para. 3.3). Since Caja is wholly Government-owned, its Board also fulfills
the functions of the Assembly of Shareholders. Caja's General Manager is
appointed by the President of the Republic. Although he is not a member of
the Board, he enjoys a certain degree of autonomy and considerable political
influence.
3.24        Until 1974, Caja regularly generated profits, mainly as a result
of its: (i) de facto monopoly on the mobilization of rural savings which were
remunerated at a very low rate; (ii) relative freedom from reserve
requirements compared to other financial institutions; and (iii) authorization
to issue bonds at the low remuneration of 41 which commercial banks had to
hold as portfolio requirements (this was abolished in 1990). However, from
the second half of the 1970s, the workers union became stronger and, through
consecutive negotiations, obtained increases in overall compensation and a
generous pension plan. By the early 1980s, Caja started to produce financial
losses due mainly to increasing personnel costs as a result of rapidly
increasing staff numbers, higher real wage levels, and provisions for accrued
pensions. By 1983, these losses had accumul-ated to Col$ 30,000 million
(US$300 million equivalent).  In order to maintain minimum equity/asset
levels, the Government covered this accumulated loss with a series of
promissory notes, some of which were still outstanding in 1992.
3.25        Caja's financial losses abated somewhat in the period from 1986
through 1989 and ranged from Col$ 3,000 million to 7,000 million. In 1988, a
Bank loan of US$15 million was approved (Ln. 2909-CO) to finance the Caja
Agraria Institutional Development Project, with the main objective being to
strengthen Caja's operations to help meet the agricultural credit needs in a



- 26 -
more efficient manner. Under this project, automated computer systems and
equipment for Bank branch operations are being provided. Also as part of the
project, Caja agreed to improve its operational efficiency; this process being
measured by a set of performance targets. Practically none of these
performance targets have been achieved (para. 3.17). Caja's losses jumped
dramatically in 1990 to Col$ 36,500 million (US$66 million), mainly due to the
requirement to increase the provision for pension fund liabilities, which Caja
had been underproviding in 1988 and 1989. With total losses in 1990 reaching
ColS 43,468 million (US$78.5 million equivalent), about half of the tot'l of
US$166.7 million of share capital and assets reevaluation would be consumed.
Caja's continuing losses reflect: (i) lack of proper supervision by its Board
of Directors, together with weak and frequently changing management;
(ii) lending rates that remained substantially below market rates, and for
small farmers below the cost of funds; (iii) high administrative and staffing
costs resulting in high transaction costs; and (iv) the declining quality of
lending, with arrears estimated at between 22% and 27% of portfolio. As a
result of these high losses, and projected higher losses for the years to
come, the Government formed a task force in December 1990, to analyze Caja's
problems and to recommend a course of action. A restructuring plan, primarily
to strengthen Caja's equity and reduce staff, was agreed in December 1991
between the Government, Caja and FOGAFIN, the Guarantee Fund for Financial
Institutions. The sole immediate effect of this agreement was to satisfy the
Superintendency of Banks' equity criteria, and *he termination of about
4,500 staff by December 31, 1991. The other measures proposed under this
plan-l are insufficient to bring about a permanent solution, as Caja's
losses are expected to continue. Furthermore, few of the actions agreed have
been carried out. In addition to strong Government commitment, Caja needs
also a strengthened management at all levels, and more efficient supervision
by its Board. Any effective plan to improve Caja's operations should include
the reinforcement of these two functions.
3.26        About 65% of FFAP and FINAGRO funds have historically been used to
rediscount short-term subloans. This bias resulted from the PFIs lack of
interest in medium- and long-term lending given that most of their resources
originated from short-term borrowing. Medium- and long-term loan commitments
were usually done by rolling over and adjusting the rates of short-term loans.
Long-term loans would have produced a mismatch of maturities that banks were
unwilling, and often unable to carry with their own resources. However, the
short-term bias has also been a result of interest rate distortion and
administered credit allocation. The projected further improvement of
macroeconomic parameters, in particular reduced domestic inflation, the
removal of legal obstacles to term lending, and the new productive
infrastructure investment opportunities generated by the trade and pricing
reforms, are expected to somewhat redress the bias. But it would be one of
the major aims of the proposed project to help shift lending from the short-
to the medium- and long-term, through appropriate measures intended to reduce
interest rate subsidies and modify the rediscount margin and the lending terms
to adapt loan repayments to the cash flow of the investments. It would,
5/    For details of the Government's restructuring plan of December 1991, see
Annex 2.



- 27 -
therefore, incentivate the use of the producers' own resources for working
capital requirements by reducing the opportunity of rent-seeking behavior.
3.27        For 1992, FINAGRO had programmed an approval budget of
Col$ 425,000 million, representing disbursements of about Col$ 287,000
million. In real terms this would be the same level as in previous years.
However, because of the mechanism described in para. 3.6, FINAGRO's resources
in 1992 were not expected to exceed about Col$ 212,000 million (Annex 1,
Table 1). While demand for agricultural credit in 1992 seems to have
slackened (partially due to the problems in Caja Agraria), the Government is
expected to make up for the shortfall taking into consideration the
retroactive availability of some Bank funds from the proposed loan.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Aaricultural and Credit Sectors in
Colombial'
3.28        The Bank has financed 22 investment operations in the agricultural
sector of Colombia, with an aggregate loan amount of US$713 million. In
addition, a Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan of US$250 million was processed
in 1986 to address policy issues constraining agriculture and the
macroeconomy. The 22 investment operations included: two operations for
small farmers' agricultural machinery crsdit, totalling US$10.0 million; two
livestock projects, US$31.3 million; three agricultural credit operations,
US$101.0 million; six irrigation/drainage projects, US$246.4 million; two area
resettlement projects, US$13.1 million; three rural development operations,
US$180.0 million; one pilot watershed protection project, US$2.4 million; one
agricultural research project, US$63.4 million; one agricultural
diversification project, US$50.0 million; and one institutional development
project for Caja Agraria, US$15.0 million.
3.29        Most of the projects have focused on increasing the productivity,
incomes and welfare of small farmers, while the agricultural diversification
and the credit operations included medium and large farmers; all except the
agricultural diversification project were executed by public sector
institutions. Eighteen of the twenty two operations have been completed. The
four projects still under implementation are: (i) HIMAT Irrigation II, Loan
2667-CO of US$114.0 million, approved in 1986; (ii) Caj& Agraria Institutional
Development Project, Loan 2909-CO of US$15.0 million, approved in 1988;
(iii) Small-Scale Irrigation Project, Loan 3113-CO of US$78.2 million,
approved in 1990; and (iv) the Rural Development Investment Fund, Loan 3250-CO
of US$75.0 million, approved in 1991.
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
3.30        The Bank's experience with agricultural credit projects in
Colombia points clearly to the importance of establishing and maintaining a
financial sector free of distortions and with a sound interest rate structure.
Previous agricultural credit projects encountered difficulties to become
6/    See Annex 4 for details on the experience with Bank lending for
agricultural credit projects in Colombia.



- 28 -
financially sustainable, because the proceeds were lent at rates that did not
cover the cost of the Bank loan resources. The Government financed the
shortfall in all cases from budgetary resources, except for the Coffee
Diversification Project, where the shortfall was borne by the National Coffee
Fund. Because of the Government's inability to address interest rate
subsidies, a proposed Bank project in 1986/87 to channel US$200 million to
Caja Agraria was transformed into a limited institutional reform project to
strengthen the institution with financing provided largely for computer
hardware and technical assistance (Loan 2909-CO0 US$15 million). Slow start
up delayed the establishment of the financial data on which the performance
targets were to be analyzed. While criteria were established for Caja's
performance, the specific steps to achieve efficiency improvement were not
specified and Caja's management failed to take the appropriate actions. As a
reault, Caja's operating costs remained high. Management was unable to reduce
staff and Caja's interest rate structure was not brought up to a level
commensurate with costs. As a result, the performance targets established
under the project have not been achieved (although Caja rearranged the
financial results by underprovisioning pension liabilities and bad debts, to
conceal this fact). Caja's true financial status did not become public until
1991 when the Superintendency of Banks ordered corrective measures, which in
turn led the Bank in mid-1991 to consider suspension of disbursements. The
decision was, however, taken to address Caja's structural problems in the
context of the proposed project, which would include the conditionality needed
to improve Caja's efficiency. Likewise, a request from the Coffee Federation,
in 1990, for a follow-up loan to the Agricultural Diversification Project was
subsumed within the proposed project. The earlier project with the Coffee
Federation, while technically successful in developing alternative crops in
coffee areas, and in providing efficient extension and technical support to
farmers, represented a large financial cost to the Federation because of
interest rate subsidies existing in the agricultural sector credit system.
The protracted dialogue between the Bank and Government on the need to reform
the financial sector culminated in an agreement on a Financial Policy
Framework Paper in April 1991, which provides the basis for the proposed loan.



- 29 _
IV. THE PROJECT
Origin and Relation to Country Strateav
4.1         The Government's relatively sound macroeconomic management since
the mid-1980s, and the EMP, in particular with its reforms in the trade and
financial eectors, provide a solid framework within which the Bank could help
the Government achieve its strategy of sustaining economic growth through
investment project loans and selective policy-based operations. The proposed
loan is one of four sector-specific financial intermediation loans covering
industrial restructuring and development, I?I restructuring and divestiture,
trade reform and export development, and agricultural sector credit, which
were under consideration by the Bank since agreement was reached on the
Government's financial polic) reform (Iara 2.13). These loans, of which the
first two have already been approved,2 would help ensure an adequate supply
response in the different sectors and a smooth transition to the new policy
environment. Beyond this transition period, and once the financial and trade
reforms have been completed, the Government and the multilateral banks would
consider funding global lines of credit for rediscounting by the BR to all
sectors of the economy to complement the domestic savings generation capacity
of Colombia.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.2         The rationale for Bank involvement in the proposed project stems
from the need to help the Government introduce and sustain financial and trade
policy changes aimed at rectifying the long history of complex and
interlocking distortions to which the agriculture sector has been subjected.
These, inter alia, have included: (i) administered and subsidized interest
rates; (ii) directed lending not only to the sector but also to specific
farmer groups and for particular crops; and (iii) dependence on resource
mobilization from forced investments. Thu effects of lowering the volume of
forced investments resulting from the introduction of some of the financial
sector reform measures h'ave been to substantially reduce the resources for
agricultural lending, at a time when increased credit demand is anticipated to
adjust the sector's productivw infrastructure according to the signals
received from the liberalized trade regime. Some of the reduction in forced
investments and some of the additional credit demand will be met by first tier
commercial banks as interest rate and other policy measures are introduced.
However, commercial banks have been reluctant in the past to lend their own
funds for agricultural lending. Particularly, the banking sector in Colombia
has been historically unwilling or un.ble to commit resources for medium- and
long-term lending other than whatever could be financed from FFAP/FINAGRO's
rediscounting resources. Medium- and long-term credit is, however, essential
for the adjustment and expansion of agriculture in the context of the trade
and pricing reforms. Hence, the proposed Bank loan would assist Government
through a transition phase wherein this complex set of issues would be tackled
7/    The Industrial Restructuring and Development Project (Loan 3321-CO,
US$200 million), and the IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project
(approved by the Board on March 24, 1992, US$100 million).



- 30 -
in a way that would maintain farmers' access to formal credit, while further
dismantling past distortions and discretionary mechanisms, and ensuring
delivery of market-based credit to the agricultural sector during the period
of adjustment of the economy to the new financial and trade regime.
Furthermore, by leveraging FINAGRO's lending towards the long term, the
operation would also contribute to developing in the banking sector long-term
lending mechanisms and promote general lending to the agricultural sector, at
market or near-market rates with the banks' own resources.
4.3         Bank involvement would also help the Government restructure and
rationalize Caja Agraria, the main agricultural credit institution and
practically the sole provider of small farmer credit. Closing of Caja is not
feasible at this stage, since the private banks are not yet prepared to lend
to the sector, in particular to small farmers. The Government is therefore
understandably not willing to close Caja abruptly. Related considerations
which support the Government's intention to maintain Caja's essential banking
services and keep it for the time being in the public sector ares (i) high
transaction costs for small farmer lending and the remoteness of many areas
served deter private banks from engaging in these activities. While the
Government will increase interest rates to small farmers, it will, for equity
considerations, do so at a slow pace and define a budget-supported subsidy
scheme for some of Caja's high transaction cost operations and office
locations, which the Government may want to keep for social reasons;
(ii) Caja's lending rates, while higher than in 1991, still provide subsidized
lending to small farmers. But to eliminate the subsidy, given Caja's present
operating costs, would mean charging higher than "market" rates to cover
operational inefficiencies. This would not be justifiable on economic
efficiency terms; and (iii) Caja's demise would cause huge portfolio losses
and could trigger the bankruptcy of FINAGRO, to which Caja owes about half its
portfolio (equivalent to about US$330 million). In this case, the Government
would need to take over repayment of the FINAGRO bonds, held by the private
banking sector. On the other hand, if Caja's operational inefficiencies,
caused mainly by high administrative costs and portfolio arrears remain
uncorrected, a new cycle of losses and erosion of its capital base would
occur, even if it would be recapitalized by the Government. The project,
therefore, has been designed to help the Government implement a Corporate Plan
for Caja, with the explicit purpose of making Caja leaner, more efficient and
viable.
Proiect Obiectives
4.4         The proposed project would, during a transitional period of two
years, help the Government adjust the provision of agricultural credit to a
market-based framework and facilitate the supply response of the sector to the
new trade policy environment. Specifically, it would support the Government's
actions to: (i) implement the agreed program of financial and trade reforms;
(ii) reduce and eventually phase-out forced investments while promoting term-
lending and voluntary lending by commercial banks to the agricultural sector
without risking a significant decline in lending resources; (iii) monitor and
analyze agricultural credit demand and supply, and recommend measures so as to
ensure a smooth transition to a market-based credit system; and (iv) transform
Caja Agraria into an efficient rural financial institution.



- 31 -
Prolect Description
4.5         The proposed project would provide US$250 million of loan funds to
FINAGRO to rediscount agricultural medium- and long-term loans to finance on-
farm investment by small, medium and large agricultural producers,
agroindustry and related working capital requirements. The funds would help
sustain an adequate level of lending to the agricultural sector at market or
near-market interest rates, in line with the Agricultural Credit Policy
Framework (paras. 4.7-4.11 and Annex 3) which would reduce FINAGRO's resources
from forced investments over the period 1992-1994 by about US$300 million
(Annex 1, Table 1). This would help alleviate the crowding-out of private
sector lending to agriculture and, as interest rates move to market rates
(para. 4.9), would provide incentives for increased private commercial banks
lending to the sector, and a reduced role for FINAGRO. FINAGRO would also
provide technical assistance to private banks to assist them in evaluating
agricultural lending proposals. A mechanism would be established to monitor
credit demand and supply, to ensure that the accelerated financial
liberalization proposals under the project do not result in the inefficient
underallocation of real resources to the sector (especially in view of the
fact that some industrial lines of credit are still retaining interest rate
caps). For the mid-term review of the project, studies would be undertaken to
assess the pace at which private banking services and volume of lending are
expanding in rural areas, as the basis for identifying constraints and future
actions (paras. 4.12-4.13).
4.6         The success of the financial reform program and the effectiveness
of the Bank loan in facilitating the transition to market-based lending
through FINAGRO are dependent to a large degree on the successful
implementation of the structural and managerial changes in Caja Agraria.
These are embodied in the Corporate Plan for this institution (Annex 2,
Attachment 1), and are aimed at correcting Caja's past problems which have, so
far, remained intractable. The main features of Caja's reform program would
comprise: changes in Caja's management and Board of Directors; the reduction
of its operating losses through the closure of branches, staff and expenditure
reductions and improved loan collections. There would also be a limited
recapitalization through settling by the Government of its outstanding debts
to Caja. These reforms would be carried out under the proposed project. The
implementation of this program would be monitored through a set of performance
targets and indicators which have been agreed during negotiations (paras.
4.14-4.16).
Agricultural Credit Policy Framework
4.7         Under the proposed project, and in accordance with the Financial
Policy Framework (FPF) agreed with the Colombian Government in April 1991, and
with the terms of Resolution No. 77 of the Monetary Board dated
December 28, 1990, with the required changes (para. 4.9) agricultural credit
distortions are to be reduced and the stage set for the full elimination of
any remaining distortions in the medium term (Annex 3, Agricultural Credit
Policy Framework Letter and Annex 4, Agricultural Credit Policy Matrix). More
specifically, the Government, by December 31, 1994, will have: (a) freed
final lending rates on credit rediscounted by FINAGRO, except for credit to



_ 32 -
small farmero  (exclusively financed by A Bonds); (b) brought agricultural
interest rates, for credit to small farmers, to market-equivalent levels
(DTF+6 percentage points); (c) eliminated FINAGRO's directed lending for
specific crops; (d) significantly reduced the dependence of the sector on
resource mobilization through forced investments, and redirected FINAGRO's
intervention towards the small farm sector and medium- and long-term lending.
This would reduce the role of FINAGRO in those segments of the credit market
where private sector lending by commercial banks has been constrained by
market or policy failures; and (e) limited FINAGRO's access to borrowings from
the domestic financial market. Paragraphs 4.8 to 4.10 below, cover in more
detail the specific measures undertaken or agreed.
4.8         Beyond 1994, it is the Government's intention, in the medium term,
and subject to the evolution of commercial bank lending to the agricultural
sector (which will be closely monitored under the proposed project), to
complete the move to a market-based agricultural credit system by:
(a) eliminating the remaining portfolio/forced investment requirements through
B Bonds, end raising the remuneration and financial margin of A Bonds to
market levels; (b) maintaining the free determination of interest rates for
agricultural lending, except for small farmers, where, for subloans
rediscounted by FINAGRO and for equity considerations, the cap will still be
set at a notional market-equivalent rate of DTF + 6 percentage points; and
(c) concentrating the role of FINAGRO on efficiently rediscounting medium- and
long-term subloans for the agricultural sector at market rates and limiting
its role, other than in cases of domestic market failure, to mobilizing
resources in external markets or through multilateral financing. This would
permit a rate of investment and of agricultural sector growth higher than that
available through domestic savings, without crowding out the private financial
sector (Annex 1). In this connection, the Government agreed during
negotiations that FINAGRO's 1993 borrowings from the domestic market will be
limited to exceptional circumstances (mainly related to short-term cash-floe
problems) and bound, from 1994 on, by a ceiling equivalent to 102 of
FINAGRO's outstanding liabilities net of Capital (para. 5.1 (a)). The changes
in financial policies, and the proposed Government medium-term Agricultural
Sector Credit Policies are the object of a Policy Letter that the Government
has submitted to the Bank (Annex 3).
4.9         Interest Rate Policy.  Remuneration of A and B bonds, FINAGRO's
rediscount rate and the onlending interest rate would be progressively raised
over the period 1992-1994 (Table 4), so that by January 1, 1994: (a) the
onlending rate for loans financed with B bonds (primarily medium- and large-
scale farmers) would be freed; (b) the remuneration of B bonds would be
increased to DTF levels; and (c) the onlending rate for loans to small farmers
(which are financed exclusively with A bonds) would be substantially
increased, reaching market equivalent levels (DTP + 6 percentage points) 8.
8/    Interest rates are measured against money market deposirs (dep6sitos a
t6rmino fijo, DTF), which reflect the market rate of mobilizing
financial resources in Colombia. Rates for three- and twelve-month
deposits are determined daily by each financial institution, and
collated, averaged and published weekly by BR.



- 33 -
The first two measures would require that Resolution No. 77 (para. 4.7) be
slightly modified (para. 4.20). The mechanism for calculating FINAGRO's
rediscount rate would be reviewed periodically to ensure consistency with BR's
rediscount rates for other Bank lines of credit (para. 4.20).
.able 4t Financial Parameters of Class A and B Bonds
Calendar    Remuneration  Rediscount    Lending            Margin
Year                       Rate         Rate I/        FINAGRO  Banks
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Class A Bonds (for rediscountina small farmers' loans)
1991         DTF-9         DTF-7        DTF-4            2       3
1992         DTF-6         DTF-4        DTF-2            2       2
1993         DTF-4         DTF-2        DTF+2            2       4
1994         DTF-2         DTF          DTF+6            2       6
Class B Bonds (for rediscountina all other lendinx)
1991         DTF-5         DTF          DTF+4            5       4
1992         DTF-2         DTF          DTF+6            2       6
1993         DTF-2  no less than DTF b/ DTF+6            2       6
1994 c/      DTF    no less than DTP h/ free            free   free
Notes:
a/    The lending rate indicates the maximum rate that banks can charge the
subborrower; however, banks and subborrowers are allowed to negotiate
lower terms.
b/    The rate could be higher than DTF once a demand-responsive mechanism
for pricing rediscounted funds is introduced. See para. 4.20.
c/    Under the original terms of Resolution No. 77, remuneration would
have been DTF-2, the rediscount rate, DTI, and the lending rate
DTF+6.
4.10        Reduction of Forced Investments.  Under Resolution No. 77, the
Government transformed the 62 forced investment requirements to subscribe
B Bonds into a portfolio requirement (para. 3.6). The change allows private
banks or financial institutions to deduct their own lending for agriculture
from their required purchase of B Bonds, provided the loans, which are not
supposed to be rediscounted by FINAGRO, are made at terms equivalent to those
for rediscounts from that institution; now at market-equivalent rates
(pare. 4.9). The substitution by banks of Class B Bonds by direct lending is
financially attractive to them since it provides an additional margin of two
percentage points from the differenee between the remuneration of B Bonds (DTF
- 2) and the cost of the resources they mobilize from the market (DTF). The
effect of this measure is expected to result in a reduction of B Bonds
purchases of US$43.0 million in 1993 and US$70.0 million in 1994.



- 34 -
Furthermote, the Government, on May 8, 1992, reduced forced investments by
limiting the portfolio requirement to 5%, instead of the original 6Z. Both
measures provide an important stimulus to private bank lending to agriculture
and will reduce the role of FINAGRO as lender to medium and large farmers.
The Government would retain portfolio and/or forced investment requirements
through A Bonds equivalent to 2% of the banking sector's deposit liabilities
(net of mandatory reserves) to ensure that small farmers are not suddenly
deprived of access to credit. Under the proposed project, the present
portfolio requirements (5% for R bonds and 22 for A bonds) would be capped
(para. 4.20). In addition, proposals for the future of the A and B Bonds
mechanism would be prepared for the mid-term review of the project, in the
context of the analysis of the credit markets and of the continuing
constraints in the provision of agricultural credit (para. 4.13).
4.11        Develonment of Term Lending.  Under the proposed project, Bank
funds would be utilized exclusively for rediscounting medium- and long-term
subloans by FINAGRO.  Since the Bank would finance, through the life of the
project, an average of 61X of such rediscounts, financing by FINAGRO would be
heavily leveraged towards term lending. This is expected to gradually phase
out short-term rediscounts, which would be increasingly replaced by direct
lending from the private bank's own resources. FINAGRO would further promote
the development of term lending for investments by raising the rediscount
margin from 70% to 80%, while reducing the margin for short-term lending from
70% to 60% or less. FINAGRO would also allow the interest on medium- and
long-term subloans, with loan maturities of two to thirteen years including a
three-year grace period (this grace period could be longer in the case of the
establishment of long-gestation crops), to be capitalized during the grace
period and to align the loan repayment schedules with the axpected income from
investments, to improve the cash flow of borrowers (para. 4.19).
Support to Private Banks ParticiDation in A ricultural Lending
4.12        The introduction of portfolio requirements (in place of forced
investments), the reduction in portfolio requirements to 5Z (para. 4.10), as
well as the alignment of administered interest rates with market rates
(para. 4.9) would create an environment in which the banking sector would be
expected to increase lending to agriculture with its own resources
(para. 4.10). Additionally, the Government has begun opening the banking
sector to more competition, by allowing foreign banks to own local banks, and
this is expected to further stimulate lending to the agricultural sector.
4.13        Under the project, CNCA/FINAGRO would, partly through contracts
with specialized agencies close to the banking sector, carry out promotion and
study activities and provide services to the banking sector to help them lend
to agriculture. These services would include the regular collection, analysis
and distribution of statistics on agricultural credit demand and supply, and
the dissemination of typical investment models that demonstrate their
technical, financial and economic viability, and the degree of risk involved.
In order to assess the impact of these activities, and develop recommendations
for more efficient delivery of credit to the agricultural sector, CNCA/FINAGRO
would, by the project's Mid-term Review (para. 4.34), have in place an
effective mechanism to collect, analyze and disseminate data on agricultural



- 35 -
credit supply and demand to inter alia monitor the effects of the financial
reforms under the project. At the Mid-Term Review, FINAGRO would also submit
to the Bank for review and comment the recommendations of a study tot
(a) assess the scope of involvement and the performance of the banking sector
and other institutions in agricultural lending; and (b) analyze the causes and
the extent to which market failures continue to exist in the provision of
agricultural credit in Colombia, with particular focus on small farmer credit.
On the basis of their findings, the study would also make specific proposals
regarding: (a) FINAGRO's future role; (b) the future of and level of forced
investments in both Class A and B bonds; and (c) the possible use of budgeted
subsidies to support lending to small farmers (para. 4.34).
Reform of Caia Agraria
4.14        One of the major objectives of the proposed project is to help the
Government with the financial restructuring, rationalization and
recapitalization of Caja. Given the importance of the institution in lending
and resource mobilization in rural areas in Colombia, particularly for small
farmers, tho proposed project would include measures to ensure an adequate
flow of credit to small farmers, while converting Caja into an efficient
banking institution able to compete on commercial terms with private banks.
To achieve this transformation, the Government and the Bank agreed at
negotiations on the Corporate Plan for Caja (para. 4.6 and Annex 2,
Attaclhment 1). Caja's reform program includes changes in its Board of
Directors and management, reduction in Caja's size and total operating costs
by closing down inefficient branches, improvements in the quality of lending
and portfolio collections, and reconstitution of its equity. The
implementation of this program would be monitored quarterly through a set of
performance targets and indicators which are part of the Corporate Plan. The
Government has initiated the reform program for Caja, has appointed a new
President for Caja, satisfactory to the Bank, who has appointed a new
management team, and formally assigned to Superintendencia Bancaria the
responsibility to closely monitor Caja's implementation of the Corporate Plan.
To further Caja's reforms, the following actions have been completed: (i) a
new Board of Directors, satisfactory to the Bank, with participation from the
private sector and from FOGAEIN, has been appointed for Caja; (M,) the
Corporate Plan has been approved by Caja's Board of Directors, including,
inter alia: a schedule of actions satisfactory to the Bank has been prepared
to reduce by about 1,000 the number of Caja's staff and to close no less than
80 money-losing branches in localities where another financial institution
operates, both by the first quarter of 1993; (iii) an agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, has been reached between Caja and the Government on the operation
of money-losing branches that for equity or other purposes, Government would
like to keep open; and (iv) on November 8, 1992, the Congress of Colombia
approved Law 17 ordering the transfer of an amount up to Col$ 56,000 million
to Caja Agraria, from the supplementary 1992 Budget; by December 30, 1992, the
Government issued Decree Nos. 2095 and 2189 transferring this amount of
Col$ 56,000 million to Caja Agraria, of which Col$ 24,000 million in cash, and
Col$ 32,000 million in Bonds. This first payment was part of the
recapitalization of Caja Agraria, which would total Col$ 140,000 million over
a three-year period under the restructuring of this institution, as confirmed
by a letter dated November 18, 1992, from the Minister of Finance to the Bank.



- 36 -
The 1993 Budget includes additional transfers totalling Col$ 62,800 million.
Disbursements by the Government are subject to satisfactory progress in
implementing the Corporate Plan. The Government provided assurances at
negotiations that, in the future, Caja would not be capitalized or roceive
transfers beyond the amounts agreed at negotiations, as detailed above, and
shown in the Corporate Plan (para 5.1 (b)).
4.15        Cala's Rey Performance Indicators.  To monitor Caja's achievement
of financial performance targets, Caja's Corporate Plan includes the following
key quantitative indicators:
-     Operating Resultst  Caja would have:  (a) eliminated operational
losses by December 31, 1993 (excluding the reconstitution of the
pension fund)t and (b) achieved by December 31, 1994 a return on
assets, of at least 12.
-     Staff Numbers:  Caja's staff would be reduced to 9,250 by early
1993, 8,200 by December 31, 1993 and r- more than 7,200 by
December 31, 1994; operating expendi ..es would be reduced
accordingly to an agreed percentage of Caja Agraria's resource
mobilization.
-     Number of Branches:  Caja's number of operating branches would be
reduced to about 800 by the first quarter of 1993, and be reduced
to 760 by the end of 1993, and to 650 by the end of 1994. Of the
approximately 650 branches which Caja would operate after 1994, up
to 100 money-losing branches shall remain open on Government's
request, for social reasons, and the cost of operating these
branches is included in the Government Budget.
4.16        Progress in Caja's reform program, and in the implementation of
the Corporate Plan would be monitored through the indicators in para. 4.15
above. Caja would establish quarterly progress reports to be submitted to the
Bank, which would include operating results, and updated statistics on staff
numbers and active branches, showing how the yearly target would be achieved.
The operating results vould obligatorily incorporate adequate annual provision
for eventual portfolio losses, and for the current cost of the pension scheme;
these provisions would be estimated on a yearly basis, and charged, as from
March 31, 1993, to the operational account quarterly, at the rate of 25Z.
Disbursements of Bank funds may be suspended if, at any time, Caja does not
meet the Key Indicators. Furthermore, progress in the implementation of the
Corporate Plan would be the-object of a comprehensive mid-term review to be
held as soon as US$100 million of the Loan have been committed, but not later
than June 30, 1994. Continued commitment of Loan funds would be conditional
upon completion of the mid-term review to the Bank's satisfaction of Caja's
performance under the Corporate Plan (para. 4.34). The results of this review
would determine the future direction of Caja, including options for
divestiture/privatization or for operating Caja as a public bank along
commercial lines, and detail the subsequent actions to be undertaken.



- 37 -
Proiect Cost and Financint
4.17        The estimated total project cost and financing plan for the
propcsed project is given in Table 5 below:
Table 5: Project Coat and Financing
(US$ million)
Total      Z
Sources of Finance
World Bank Loan                                 250.0       16
Beneficiaries                                   302.0       20
Financial Intermediaries                        379.0      25
FINAGRO rediscounts                             591.0      39
TOTAL                                 1,522.0     100
4.18        Total project cost is estimated to be US$1,522.0 million, of which
US$572.0 million (38%) would be for medium- and long-term lending. The Bank
loans represents 162 of total project costs. The projections of credit demand
for 1993-1994 are based on historical data on investments financed by
FFAP/FIRAGRO (Annex 1, Tables 1 to 3). Because of the difficulty in
estimating the possible effect on credit demand of the trade reform program,
and the influence of directed credit and interest rate liberalization, the
projections assume no increase in the demand for credit in real terms in the
two transition years (i.e., zero real growth rate). Of the total cost,
US$395.7 million or 26Z represents the direct and indirect foreign exchange
requirements of which the Bank loan represents 632. The estimated financing
share of FINAGRO rsflects the net availability of resources from A and B Bor.ds
and also from portfolio recoveries. However, as commercial banks substitute
direct lending to the agricultural sector for forced investments through B
Bonds (para. 4.10), the participation of commercial banks in direct lending to
agriculture and therefore to the financing plan of the project is expected to
reach US$43 million in 1993 and US$70 million in 1994. B Bonds and FINAGRO's
rediscounting and share in the financing plan would be correspondingly
reduced. As commercial banks become more knowledgeable about the agricultural
sector through the support to Be provided under the proposed project, it is
expected that, under present portfolio requirement policy, forced investments
(i.e., B Bonds) will be increasingly replaced by direct lending from the
commercial banks.
Lending Terms and Conditions
4.19        The  proposed Bank loan would be made to FINAGRO at the standard
variable rate, with the Guarantee of the Government of Colombia; FINAGRO would
ensure debt service on the loan, including the standard Bank commitment fee,
and bear the explicit risks of interest rate and foreign exchange



- 38 -
fluctuations, as well as the cross-currency risk. FINAGRO would use the loan
resources to rediscount medium- and long-term subloans made by PFIs for the
financing of medium- and long-term investments. Subloan maturities would be up
to 13 years with a grace period of up to three year.; however, the grace
period may be greater than three years for those subloans for investment
projects in which the gestation period of the relevant crop exceeds three
years, provided that the grace period reflects the cash-flow of the project
and the capacity of the borrower to repay the loan. Sue. loans would include
a mechanism to capitalize interest, and the rates would be consistent with
para. 4.20 below. Subloans granted by PFIs would cover 80% of investment
costs, and FINAGRO wou3d discount 80Z of the value of subloans; the Bank would
disburse 70% of the amounts rediscounted by FINAGRO, until the first US$100
million of the Loan are disbursed, and 55% thereafter. PFIs would finance
the remaining balance of the subloans from their own resources on terms
identical to the rediscounted portion. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that FINAGRO would: (1) allocate the proceeds of the loan
exclusively for the financing of medium- and long-term lending; and (ii) match
for such lending the Bank loan funds with its own resources in the following
ratios: 30% while the first US$100 million are being disbursed, and 45%
thereafter (para. 5.1 (c)).
4.20        Rediscount and Onlending Interest Rates.   Bank funds under the
proposed loan would be exclusively applied to finance subloans in US dollars
or pesos under the following rediscount and onlending terms: (a) on peso
loans, FINAGRO would charge the financial intermediaries the fully variable
deposit rate of the Colombian financial system (DTF) plus, if and as needed, a
margin so that the total charge would be sufficient to cover the Bank's
interest rate, commitment charge, foreign exchange and cross currency risk,
and FINAGRO's administrative costs; (b) for US dollar loans, FINAGRO would
charge the cost of Bank funds (variable interest rate and commitment charge),
plus a margin adequate to cover the cross currency risk and administrative
costs. The onlending rate to be charged by the PIle shall be calculated by
taking into account such factors as characteristics of the investment project,
credit risk, administrative costs, and maturity of the subloans. The final
rate would not exceed the rediscount rate of FINAGRO plus six percentage
points in 1993 and it would be freed by a date not later than nine months
after loan effectiveness. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that:
(a) the remuneration of B bonds and the final lending rate on credit financed
by FINAGRO to other than small farmers would be increased to DTF and freed,
respectively, by a date not later than nine months after loans effectiveness
(para. 5.2 (a)); (b) the mechanism for calculating FINAGRO's rediscount rate
would be consistent with the one practiced by BR for other Bank lines of
credit and would have to be acceptable to Banco de la Republica and the World
Bank; (c) the terms for A bonds (remuneration, rediscounting rate and
onlending rate) would continue to be increased at least in accordance with
Resolution No. 77 (Table 4, p. 23); (d) the volume of A and B bonds would be
capped at their present levels (2% and 5X respectively of deposits net of
reserves); and (e) unt:il such time as forced investments are fully eliminated,
commercial banks would retain the choice to replace such forced investments by
direct lending to agriculture, as under the present portfolio requirement
mechanism (para. 5.1 (d) to (h)).



- 39 -
4.21        Su!-loan Free Limits.   FINAGRO's free limit would be the
equivalent of US$100,000. Loan applications under this amount would be
approved by the PFIs. Subloans above this free limit, but under US$500,000
equivalent, would be checked, evaluated and approved by FINAGRO. Subloans
above US$500,000 equivalent would be submitted to the Bank for prior review
and approval. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that FINAGRO
would send to the Bank for pre-approval any subloan above US$500,000
equivalent and the first three subloans above US$100,000 equivalent for post-
review (para. 5.4 (n)) All documentation on loan approvals above US$100,000
would be kept in FINAGRO for selective review by the Bank.
4.22        Beneficiaries and Ellible Expenditures.  The project would
finance medium- and long-term loans made by PFF1 to individual farmers,
established farmer groups, agricultural producer cooperatives and enterprises
providing agricultural production support services, including agroindustries.
It would finance goods and services associated with the acquisition of fixed
assets to replace, modernize or expand agricultural production, marketing or
processing capacity. Eligible expenditures would most likely include:
machinery and equipment, land preparation and irrigation/drainage
infrastructure, and livestock production facilities including aquaculture.
Eligibility for financing under the loan would be defined negatively so as to
exclude short-term loans (annual crop loans, bonos de prenda, and working
capital unless associated to an eligible investment expenditure), transfer of
assets such as land or farm purchases, and refinancing of existing
indebtedness.
4.23        Participating Financial Intermediaries.  All first-tier financial
institutions that meet criteria of creditworthiness, and comply with
pertinent regulations of the Superintendency of Banks, would be eligible to
use loan funds after entering into a Subsidiary Participation Agreement with
FINAGRO. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para. 5.1
(i)).
4.24        Environmental Assessment of Subloans.  The proposed project would
be an important part of the Bank's str .egy in support of Colombia's decision
to incorporate environmental considerations in its development efforts. Thus,
in addition to the technical and financial viability, investment for which
Bank loan funds are to be used, would need to be environmentally sound. Under
the project, it would be a requirement to obtain a certificate or to prepare
environmental assessments, as the case may be, for subloans wherein
environmental risks exist, such as, but not limited to the following
investments: (a) land clearing of any kind; (b) draining of wetlands; (c)
aquaculture ponds and coastal or marine loans of all kinds; (d) groundwater
pumping; (e) cattle ranching; and (f) agricultural inputs manufacturing or
outputs processing. Until the passage of their new Environment Law, expected
sometime mid-1993, it would be the responsibility of the respective Regional
Corporations where the proposed investments would take place, or another
suitable institution, to certify the environmental soundness of such
investments and to follow up on possible recommendations for alleviating
negative effects. The certification would be part of the loan documentation
to be presented by the financial intermediaries to FINAGRO to rediscount loans
identified as environmentally sensitive. These regulations have been



- 40 -
incorporated in FINAGRO's Credit Manual. The proposed Natural Resource
Management Project, presently under preparation by the Bank, together with a
similar operation proposed by the Inter-American Development Bank, would
include measures to strengthen the Regional Corporations ability to carry out
environmental assessments. To further ensure the process, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government, through its Planning Department
(DNP), would prepare no later than six months after loan effectiveness a
nation-wide action plan to strengthen the environmental assessment capability
of the Regional Corporations (para. 5.1 (j)).
Project Implementation
4.25        Administration.  Management of the project's financial resources
would be the responsibility of FINAGRO. Its role would be primarily to
monitor the overall performance and repayment capacity of PPIs and to
supervise the use of project funds. Specifically, FINAGRO wouldt (i) prepare
by November 30 of each year, and submit to the Bank for comment, its program
for lending and resource mobilization for the following year; (ii) qualify and
monitor the performance of PFIs according to the established qualification
criteria (para. 4.23); (iii) review ex-ante loan proposals that would exceed
the free limit established for PFIs (US$100,000 equivalent in December 1992);
(iv) review ex-post, according to preset criteria, loans which are within the
rediscount limits for PFIs; (v) monitor compliance with the provisions of the
Credit Manual (para. 4.27), particularly the rate of return of project
investments and environmental soundness; and (vi) allocate, disburse, repay
and account for project funds. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations
that FINAGRO woulds (a) by November 30 of each year, submit to the Bank for
comment, its program for lending and resource mobilization for the following
year; the 1993 program has been submitted; (b) carry out the functions above;
and (c) limit its annual administrative costs, including depreciation, to no
more than 11 of its average outstanding net portfolio (paras. 5.1 (k).
4.26        FINAGRO has adequate organizational and staff capacity to carry
out the assigned responsibilities. As the successor to FFAP, it has taken on
several staff of the former FhAP as consultants or advisers, and is also using
FFAP operational guidelines, suitably adjusted to the new rediscounting
policies under the CNCA. Given BR's facilities and experience in operating
FFAP, FINAGRO has also signed two contracts with BR, renewable yearly, one to
manage FINAGRO's rediscount portfolio, and the other to issue and place its
bond. FINAGRO has also established an Evaluation and Control Unit to review
loan applications and, selectively, to conduct onsite implementation checks of
investments financed with FINAGRO rediscounts. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that FINAGRO would maintain the present contractual
arrangements with BR for managing FINAGRO's rediscount and bond portfolio,
unless otherwise agreed vith the Bank (para. 5.1 (1)).
4.27        FINAGRO's Credit Manual describes the eligibility of borrowers,
the procedures for loan applications, the role of PFIs in investment
evaluation, and the disbursement procedures. This Manual has been
satisfactorily modified to provide for the environmental assessment of



- 41 -
selected operations it finances under the loan (para. 4.24); the modified
Credit Manual, has been formally adopted by FINAGRO's Board.
4.28        To maintain an undistorted economic onvironment, the Government
intends to maintain the agricultural trade regime adopted in August 1991,
which included: (a) no quantitative restrictions (QRs) other than for whoat;
(b) basic tariffs on agricultural products, or their derivatives or
substitutes, of 51, 101, 151 and 201; and (c) no export restrictions or export
taxes, except for phytosanitary reasons. The status of Government's
agricultural trade regime would be assessed at the mid-term review of the
project, and thereafter on the basis criteria agreed at negotiations (para.
4.34). Satisfactory performance in regard to agricultural trade would be a
condition of further commitment of Bank funds (para. 5.2 (b)(iii)).   It was
agreed at negotiations that the Government would carry out by September 30,
1993, a study to assess the efficiency effects and effectiveness of the
present agricultural trade policy with particular attention to the existing
price band system and recommend possible changes (para. 5.1 (m)).
4.29        Oversight of project implementation would be exercised by the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, and the Ministry of Agriculture. Their
main tasks would be to ensure that finance and trade reforms are carried out,
and to coordinate the execution by Caja Agraria of its restructuring and
rationalization reforms as described in its Corporate Plan, including the
adequate recapitalization of the institution. Superintondencia Bancaria would
be responsible for the continuous monitoring of Caja's operations (paras. 4.15
and 4.16). CNCA/FINAGRO, would carry out the study into constraints affecting
agricultural credit in Colombia (para. 4.13).
Procurement
4.30        FINAGRO would ascertain that all procurement under the project
would be carried out following established commercial practices, acceptable to
the Bank, ensuring competitive quality and price, and the procedures for
contract award stated below. These procurement activities would be supervised
by the PFIs.   Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that:  (a) all
contracts amounting to US$500,000 equivalent or more would follow ICB
procedures according to Bank Guidelines, and would be subject to prior review
by the Bank; (b) contracts of goods and works between US$25,000 and US$500,000
equivalent would be awarded on the basis of at least three quotations; and
(c) contracts for goods and civil works under US$25,000 would be awarded
through established commercial practices acceptable to the Bank; FINAGRO would
sample about 5Z of subloans under US$500,000 equivalent, and review at least
two contracts within each sub-loan selected to ensure compliance with the
covenants. The documentation would be kept in FINAGRO for selective review by
Bank supervision missions (para. 5.1 (n)).
Disbursement
4.31        The Bank would disburse the following ratios of the rediscounts
made by FINAGRO to PFIs for eligible subloans and beneficiaries: 701 until the
first US$100 million of the loan have been committed, and 551 afterwards.  The
Bank would deposit in the Special Account in BR an initial deposit of US$25



- 42 -
million, representing an average of four months of disbursement requirements.
Subsequent repleni.shments by the Bank into the Special Account would follow
normal procedures. Retroactive financing of up to US$25 million for
expenditures made after July 1, 1992 has been included in the loan. Thie final
date for submission of subloans to FINAGRO would be June 30, 1995, and the
Closing Date for loan disbursement would be June 30, 1999, based on the
standard disbursement profile for industrial development and finance projects
in Colombia, modified in the first year to take into account the initial
disbursement to the Special Account. Withdrawal applications from FINAGRO
would be supported by a statement of lending by the PFIs and a statement of
expenditure (SOE) showing FINAGRO's rediscounts. Full documentation would be
kept in FINAGRO for review by the auditors and Bank supervision missions.
Accounting. Auditing and Renortina
4.32       PFIs would maintain records adequate to reflect their operations
and financial situation, in accordance with accounting principles consistently
applied and properly audited. FINAGRO would maintain separate accounts for
operations cofinanced with Bank funds and for the Special Account. These
accounts, together with FINAGRO's financial statements, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Project audit
reports, along with copies of financial statements and institutional audit
information required by the Superintendency of Banks, would be submitted to
the Bank within sin months after the end of the fiscal year. The auditor's
report would include a separate opinion as to the reliability of SOEs
established to support withdrawal requests for loan funds.
4.33        In seeking a rediscount by FINAGRO of loans made under the
project, PFIs would submit: (i) a description of the beneficiary's enterprise
and its financial performance; (ii) a thorough description and appraisal of
the investment, including, in the case of an investment exceeding $100,000
equivalent, showing a minimum financial rate of return of 12% in real terms,
and a certificate of environmental soundness; (iii) goods, services and works
to be financed; (iv) the financing plan; and (v) terms and conditions of the
loan. PFIs would maintain for inspection during project supervision essential
information on the implementation status of the investment and the financing
package, financial performance of the enterprise, and procurement
characteristics. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that: (a)
FINAGRO would prepare and submit to the Bank by September 30 and March 31 of
each year, starting on March 31, 1993, semi-annual progress reports indicating
physical and financial project implementation progress in respect of Part A of
the Project (para. 5.1 (k)); and (b) the Guarantor would cause Caja Agraria to
prepare and submit to the Bank by March 31, June 30, September 30 and December
31 of each year, starting on March 31, 1993, quarterly progress reports
indicating physical and financial project implementation progress, and
analyzing performance data against the agreed Key Indieators. Bi-annual
reports would cover progress in the implementation of the Corporate Plan,
including the status of loan arrears calculated in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (paras. 4.16 and 5.1 (p)).



_ 43 -
Mil-Term Review
4.34        A mid-term evaluation of the project would be carriad out by the
Bank and the Government as soon as the first US$100 million of the loan funds
are committed, but not later than June 30, 1994. The review would cover the
following: (i) the results and the plan to implement the results of FINAGRO's
credit study, including the future of A and B bonds and credit data monitoring
ruechanisms (para. 4.13); (ii) progress in Caja Agraria's Corporate Plan and
performance indicators (paras. 4.15 and 4.16); and (iii) the maintenance of
the agricultural trade regime; the trade regime will continue to be monitored
after the mid-term review in accordance with criteria agreed at negotiations
(para. 4.28).   Terms of reference for FINAGRO's credit study were finalized
at negotiations, and appear in Annex 1, Appendix 2. Continued commitment of
loan funds would be conditional upon completion of this review in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.2 (b)).
Proiect Benefits and Risks
4.35        Benefits.  The project would support Colombia's move from forced
investments, directed lending and subsidized interest rates to market
determined resource mobilization and interest rates in agriculture, and would
ensure the maintenance of the presently acceptable agricultural trade regime.
The proposed loan would help carry out policy and institutional reforms in the
agricultural financial sector, while minimizing the risk of a financing gap
for term lending in the transition period. Ensuring credit to agriculture at
a time of macroeconomic and trade policy reforms, would boost the chances that
a quick supply response will be realized, and that the reforms proposed for
the sector's credit policies and institutions will be implemented. The
project would also play a central role in moving private bankers more quickly
along the learning curve towards voluntary agricultural lending, leverage
FINAGRO's rediscounting towards term lending, reduce the role of FINAGRO in
the sector, and restore Caja's viability as a specialized rural financial
institution, primarily to serve small farmer credit needs. Given the absence
of major distortions in the Colombian economy (para. 4.01), the project would
be economically viable, as all term lending would be for investments that
have, as a condition of rediscount by FINAGRO, t. minimum financial rate of
return of 12% in real terms.
4.36        Risks.  The main risk of the project is that implementation of
Caja Agraria's Corporate Plan, as well as the agricultural credit reform
program will be delayed, or that there will be backsliding in trade reform
because of the political sensitivity of some of the measures taken since 1991
or proposed under the project. To lessen these risks, the project has front-
loaded major conditionality. It also provides for recourse within the project
in the case of substantive backsliding in financial and trade reform, and has
a built-in mid-term project review. More important, however, is the strong
Government commitment and ownership of the Caja Agraria and financial sector
and trade reform programs. This is reflected in the Letter of Agricultural
Credit Policy and, in the case of Caja Agraria, on the continuous monitoring
to be exercised by the Superintendency of Banks and FOGAPIN, and on the
leverage available to the Ministry of Finance to condition disbursements of



- 44 -
the recapitalization funds for Caja to the satisfactory implementation of the
agreed restructuring measures.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.1         During negotiations, FINAGRO and the Government provided
assurances that they would take, or in the case of the Government, cause Caja
Agraria to take as applicable the following actions:
(a)   limit as from January 1, 1994 FINAGRO's access to domestic
financial markets to 10 of its liabilities net of Capital
(para. 4.8);
(b)   Caja would not, in the future, be capitalized or receive transfers
beyond the amounts agreed at negotiations (para. 4.14);
(c)   use the proceeds of the proposed loan exclusively to finance
medium- and long-term lending and match Bank loan funds with its
own resources in the ratios of 70:30 until the first US$100
million of loans funds have been disbursed, and 55:45 thereafter
(para. 4.19);
(d)   raise the remuneration of B bonds to DTF and free the final
lending rate on credit financed to other that small farmers by
FINAGRO with B Bond resources, both by a date not later that nine
months after loan effectiveness (para. 4.20 (a));
(a)   ensure that the mechanism for calculating FINAGRO's rediscount
rate is consistent with the one applied by BR for other Bank lines
of credit and is acceptable to BR and the Bank (para. 4.20 (b));
(f)   continue to increase the terms for A bonds at least in accordance
with Resolution No. 77 (para. 4.20 (c));
(g)   continue to cap the volwAe of A and B bonds at their present
levels (21 and 51 respectively of deposits net of reserves)
(para. 4.20 (d));
(h)   until such time as forced investment are fully eliminated,
continue to allow commercial banks the choice of replacing forced
investments by direct lending to agriculture, as under the present
portfolio's requirement mechanism (para. 4.20 (e));
(i)   only PFIs that meet criteria of creditworthiness and comply with
all pertinent regulations of the Superintendency of Banks would be
eligible to use loan funds (para. 4.23);
(j)   have the Planning Department (DNP) prepare, no later than six
months after loan effectiveness, a nation-wide action plan to
strengthen the environmental assessment capability of the Regional
Corporations (para. 4.24);



- 45 -
(k)   submit to the Bank for comment, by November 30 of each year,
starting in November, 1993, FINAGRO's proSram for lending and
resource mobilization in the following year, carry out FINAGRO's
functions as indicated in para. 4.25, and limit FINAGRO's
administrative costs, including depreciation, to no more than 1Z
of its average outstanding net portfolio (para. 4.25);
(1)   maintain FINAGRO's portfolio and bond management contractual
arrangements with BR unless otherwise agreed with the Bank
(para. 4.26);
(m)   prepare terms of reference for a study to assess the efficiency
effects and effectiveness of the present agricultural trade policy
with particular attention to the existing price band system and
recommend possible changes; the study would be carried out by
September 30, 1993 (para. 4.28);
(n)   comply with the free limit and procurement arrangements indicated
in paras. 4.21 and 4.30;
(o)   prepare and submit to the Bank by September 30 and March 31 of
each year, starting on March 31, 1993, FINAGRO's semi-annual
project progress reports (para. 4.33 (a)); and
(p)   prepare and submit to the Bank by March 31, June 30, September 30
and December 31 of each year, starting on March 31, 1993, Caja's
quarterly progress reports, indicating physical and financial
project implementation progress and analyzing performance data
against expected targets and quantitative indicators. Bi-annual
reports would indicate implementation of the Corporate Plan,
including status of loan arrears, all calculated in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.33 (b)).
5.2         No further disbursements of loan funds would be authorized: (a) in
-espect of Loans to small farmers if after a date not later than 9 months
after loan effectiveness the final lending rate has not been freed, or
otherwise adjusted to the Bank's satisfaction; (b) when the commitments shall
have reached US$100 million of loan proceeds or by June 30, 1994, whichever is
earlier, unless the Bank is, at the time and on the basis of the mid-term
evaluation of the project, satisfied witht (i) the progress in the
implementation of Caja Agraria's Corporate Plan; (ii) the plan to implement
the results of FINAGRO's credit study, including the future of A and B bonds;
and (iii) the status of the Government's agricultural trade regime. The trade
regime will continue to be monitored after the mid-term review, and if at any
time after this review the trade regime status is considered unsatisfactory,
the Bank may interrupt approval or authorization of all new subloans
(para. 4.34).
Recommendation
5.3         The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$250 million equivalent on the terms and conditions set out in
Chapters IV and V of this report.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
COLONBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
FINAGRO
Constitution and Functions
1.            The Fund for Financing of the Agricultural Sector (FINAGRO,
Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario) was established by
Law 16 of 1990, which created the National Agricultural Credit System; the
System was to be managed by the National Commission for Agricultural Credit
(CNCA). FINAGRO was described as an autonomous national financial institution
under the Ministry of Agriculture. The Minieter of Agriculture chairs both
the Board of CNCA and FINAGRO's Board of Directors. FINAGRO's administration
is headed by a President, who is assisted by a Secretary-General and two Vice-
Presidents for Credit and Finance, respectively. As of October 1992, FINAGRO
had 68 staff. Table 1 of the Appendix to this Annex shows the organizational
table of FINAGRO, and Table 2 lists the members of the Boards of CNCA and of
FINAGRO. FINAGRO was declared operational by Decree 383 of January 21, 1991,
issued by the President of the Republic and the Minister of Agriculture. On
January 23, 1991, the Superintendency of Banks, by Certificate No. 229,
authorized FINAGRO to operate as a financial institution under its
supervision. FINAGRO started its operations on January 21, 1991, and signed
two contracts with the Central Bank, Banco de la Republica (BR), one to issue,
place and amortize FINAGRO bonds, and the second to transfer rediscounting
funds to the financial institutions, and manage FINAGRO's portfolio.   These
contract was initially for a transitory period of one year and has been since
extended for an additional year.
Financial Structure
2.          Equitv Capital.  FINAGRO's initial equity was Col$50,000 million
(about US$100 million, at the exchange rate prevailing then), of which
Col$ 25 thousand million (US$50 million) was called and paid-up as follows:
CoI$ 15 thousand million were provided by the Government, and the balance
subscribed by the other banks and institutions participatinp in the National
Agricultural Credit System, mainly state-owned institutions
3.          Financial Resources.  By Law, FINAGRO's financial resources, in
additlon to equity capital, comprise:
(a)   bonds sold to the banking sector as portfolio requirements; under
Resolution 77 of December 1990, the Monetary Board of BR
authorized FINAGRO to mobilize two types of one-year, renewable
bonds (titulos de desarrollo agropecuario): Class A bonds to
1.    Since the subscription to the capital of FINAGRO two of these institutions are
moving to the private sector; one, Banco Ganadero, has already been privatized, and
the second, Banco Cafetero, is in the process.



* 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
provide funds for lending to small farmers'; and Class B bonds to
provide funds for general lending to agriculture.  In addition, it
was authorized to issue in March 1991, as a one-time operation,
Class C bonds to finance the repayment of all outstanding FlAP
forced investment instruments;
(b)   collections from the former FFAP portfolio which FINAGRO has taken
over in January 1991; the portfolio requirement Instruments
mobilized by FlAP were fully reimbursed by FINAGRO with the
proceeds of Class C Bonds (see (a) above) in March 1991, and
totalling about US$430 million, repayable in equal installments
over a four-year period ending 1994. However, since the
redemption from sub-borrowers ol the former FlAP portfolio will
extend over nine years, FINAGRO faces a cash-flow imbalance in the
early years;
(c)   foreign borrowing; in the liquidation of FFAP, FINAGRO assumed the
portfolio and debt service of a fully disalrsed US$100 million
loan from the Inter-American Development Bank that was signed in
January 1988; and
(d)   own bonds; FINAGRO is authorized to issue its own bonds, the
financial parameters of which must be approved by the Central
Bank; implementation procedures, however, have not been
finalized.3
Rediscount and Resource Proiections
4.          Table I below indicates FINAGRO's lending/resource balance in the
period 1992-94. The projections are based on: (a) FINAGRO's projected lending
program in the period 1992-94 which is expected to maintain, in real terns,
the lending levels of 1990-91; and (b) the expected level of resources from
the sale of authorized forced investment bonds, and the collections from its
portfolio.
2.    A small farmer is defined (in 1992) as an agricultural producer with an equity not
exceeding Col$ 7.6 million (about US$11,000), and a total mnnual family income not
exceeding Col$ 3.8 million (about US$5,500), of which not less than 75 % from
agriculture.
3.    The mobilization of domestic resources by rediscounting agencies is not foreseen
under the agreed Financial Policy Framework.



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
Table Is FINAGRO's Lending and Rediscount Program. 1992-94
(in current Col$'000 million and eq. US$ m)
5.          On the basis of the projection4, and because of the accelerated
repayment of C Bonds (para. 3(b)), FINAGRO would not be able to fhnanca all
credit needs from its presently available resources if it intends to meet the
same lending volume as in 1990-91. For this reason, the Government and
FINAGRO have been seeking the mobilization of additional resources, either in
the local or in the international markets. For 19929 Government has arranged
from the Treasury short-term bridge financing, vhich has to be reimbursed by
FINAGRO before the end of December 1992 (possibly aS part of the proposed Bank
loan retroactive financing). The proposed Bank Loan of US4250 million would
enable FINAGRO to continue the financing of the sector until 1994; early in
4.From IM9 on, rediscount rate vrould be 60% for short-term lending and 80% for
term lendings (loans over 2 year)
S.DNP projections of exchange rate for these thre yamt are respectively Col 759,
ColS 93 and Col$ 94 per !US$; these projections have been modified by IA3C1 as
Ahown above.



49                   ANNX 1
Page 4 of 6
1995 the whole system of forced investments, and of the adequate financing of
the agricultural sector, would be reviewed.
6.          With scarce resources, and with a policy decision to promote term-
lending, FINAGRO would need to reduce short-term lending. The Bank funds
which would be used exclusively to rediscount lending for term investments on
the basis of an average of 60Z Bank funds and 401 FINAGRO funds, would further
leverage FINAGRO's rediscounts towards term-lending while easing FINAGRO's
cash-flow position. Table 3 of the Appendix shows the breakdown of term-
lending in 1991, and projections for the two-year period 1993-94; a summary is
shown below:
Table 2: FINAGRO Estimated Rediscount. for Term-Lending
7.          Table 3 summarizes Tables I and 2 above, showing that  for 1993 and
1994 FINAGRO vould have available resources estimated at US$591 million
(US$311 million in 1993 and USS280 million in 1994, from Table 1); adding the
proposed US$250 million Bank loan, t5tal resources available of US$840 m7llion
would enable the f3nancing of investmants totalling US$1h552 million.
199  .I R  wol  hav  avial   eore   siae   tU$9   ilo



- so
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
Table 3: Prolect Costs and Financing. 1993-94
(in US$ million)
I   'S"  ''    N   aViS.. ... .. .. .. ... .   .....  ." ...   .  .  ................ .......,. E.g
Iir..   v  ..'  ...   ..    .. ,. '- ''m
Ee
1991 Financial Results
8.          Tables 4 and 5 of the Appendix show respectively FINhGRO's Profit &Lose
Account and Balance Sheet for the year ending December 31, 1991. FINAGRO made a
profit on its lending operations of Col4 8,128 million, plus another Col$ 4,484
million in assets revalorization, totaling Col. 12,612 million, which at the
exchange rate of US$/Col$ 600 prevailing at that date represent total profits of
US$21 million, equivalent to about a 4X return on assets.
Debt Service
9.          Table 6 of this Annex shows the proAected  debt-service for a USr 250
million loan. The table is based on an interest rate om 7.74Z and a comitment
charge of 0.25U, which are the payment teoms for IBRD Loans, as of December 1992.
An additional 0.5e has been added to cover the currency basket risk, which may be
sufficient on the basis of the historical performance pe t-erdifferent currencces Un
the basket in 1989/90. The table shows that FINAGRO can service the debt, and at
the end of the 17 years repayment period (four years of grace and 13 annuities), in
the Year 2008, a residual amount of Col$ 135,516 million, equivalent to about US$36
million at the projected exchange rate for that year, would be added to FINAGRO's
assets. Adding a 0.5% charge for the currency basket risk would have a marginal
effect on the residual amount.
Future Role of FINAGRO
10.         Under the Financial Policy Framework, commercial banks are expected to
play an increasing role in lending directly to the various sectors. Lending by
banks to the agricultural sector with their own resources is encouraged through the
provision that banks can substitute their subscription to FINAGRO bonds by lending
directly to agriculture, and through the penalty embodied in the remuneration of
FINAGRO's Class B Bonds (DTF-2). The process of direct lending by the banks has,



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
however, started slowly, and it is likely that agricultural sector lending at market
rates would suffer, if the forced investments, and with it FINAGRO, were to be cut
after 1994.   FINAGRO would, however, play an important role in the transition phase
during which the remaining distortions in agricultural lending are being phased out,
by redirecting its resources towards term-lending, channelling additional external
resources to the sector to compensate for reduced forced investments, building up
its capacity to monitor and analyze credit needs and supply, and promoting direct
lending by the banks. FINAGRO's longer-term role would be defined when the studies
to be carried out under the project are completed. However, its role would be
concentrated to efficiently rediscount medium- and long-term subloans for the
agricultural sector at market rates, from resources mobilized, except for
exceptional circumstances related to domestic market failures, in external markets
or through multilateral financing sources. This would permit a rate of investmentr
and of agricultural sector growth, higher than what the available pool of savings in
Colombia permit, and should be accomplished without crowding out the private
financial sector.
a \p51\Co\lAzmez.SAR
1.bruar 14. 1993



-52-
*                                   -52-  MaDANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Table 1
COMISION NACIONAL DE
I   SAZ8LEA GENERAL
DE ACCIONISTAS
JUNTA DIRECT!VA DE
FINA6RO
PRESIDENTE DE'
FINAGRO
I SECE£I-TARIA I
IJURIOICA  h                                            TECNICPA C NC.A  |
LADr1NiNITA        SECRETMARI
GENERAL
VICEPRESIDENCIA                                       VICIEPQESIUFNCI A
;  FINANCIERA                                            DE CREDITO
IPRESUPUESrO I                                        I InCAS I
II
TFSOPFRIA                                    R~~~~~~AN~TIAS
T''OS'



ANNEX 1
AppendiX i
Table 2
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
M±ie_mbros Comisifn Hac ional de Cr6ditc AgroDecuario
Ministro de Agricultura
Asesor Asuntos Cafetero.
Jefe - Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
Gorente General - Banco de la Repfiblica
Presidento - ASOCARA
Director Ejecutivo - PEDESARROLLO
Presidents - Banco Ganadero
Miembrog Junta Directiva de PINAGRO
Hinistro de Agricultura
Rapresentante - Banco de la Repfiblica
Vice-presidents de Pomento - Banco Ganadero
Cerente - Caja Agraria
Director de Planificacifn - Ministerio de Agricultura
Preosidents - Sociedad de Agricultores de Colombia
Vice-prosidente Comercial y de Cr6dito - COFIAGRO
e2.laesi.sa
21 doJu   " . H



U'
cmmu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
~~~~~~GO1A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4
s£lcL ua sucm amt nuz
rtwms "               umm"mm
flUMU'6 15022623 12323 nuuu ~ ~   ~       ~        ~      ~       ~      oW   193 t1914
lie  UtI    Ce2, blge.)
3632                                        aggi                                        mg.                                     1.4.  6356 * a.s}
Media..                          3h4~~~~~~~~~~~~eing.da.                                                                  WMdIS..
84.12. *  3q.                               Obeys.   Iene.                              5*.2. A Len-                                Obe.   a Loe.
Ter      TOM      teteal      s             tr        Trnm     Tel         2            Ter       Torn      ets        I            TOM       Torn   'Total        I
UIU £MIU.. 
mall  emte                         40.6    49.6    10.6    214.25 111.6                   6.    225.6    42.52             35.6    10e.4   265.6    42.42              2A5.6    84.6   406.6    43.41
Media. S Lerge Vaguer.             262.1   316.2   23d.6      25.23            IlJ.     146.6    365.6    2152.             155.6   115.6   366.6    51.62             32.6   323.6    655.6       5.32
__ .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    _ .... _.... . ... ................................. ._ ... _.__ ..................... ..__
* t8l                            6$4.3   313.4 463.6           16.            664.0   235.    sase.s te."                34.    324.6 2.   6.6   386.91 t32.6    412.6 13,15.6   36.6
*                *                52.62    16.62    6.2                       23t..2 44.32 *1.n * .6*2.6 4                          3."    32.62   116.0               45.22   41.92  366.6
n6  *litIe  epiveliet 31        262.0   224.8   613.6                       164.2   232.4   526.612.                     21.        .2241 441.1                      S.6    54.5 3.326.8
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.
. . . . ... . . ..... ...... .  .     .      ......
fttel                            356.5   323.4   21|.6   366.62              316.4   133.6   255.2    06.62          *   266.4   224.6   421.2    60.62               362.    4321.6   136.4   166.62
2                                32.32    64.62   36.62                       46.2     sl- 5312 36.6.                     ^4.52    22.22   266.62                      46.32    53.32   I66.6
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: X
US, *lSle. .ieIwaIe   Il         256.6    21.88    43?.?                     333.6   234.6   412.5                        223.6   243.)   462.1                       446.5   422.1   336.2
I, VrejeeSed bibsg  1*3663  1533 * Cell 666^gU8  3351 * 6.2, 662fU2I  1334 - .1  63l63355". 
*~~~~ *.^. 
.                                                         .                                                   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FONDO PARA EL FtNhCIA"IENTO DEL SECTOR ADROPECUARID *FIWDRO-
ESTAO DE UTILIDADES V PERDIDA5
PrR EL PERIODO tERINIADO EN 31 DE DICIEIBRE DE 1991
(Euprosado to miles de ptsos coloablamos, iscepto la utilidad nota par acciono
INORESOS OPERACIOMALES DIRECTO9q
Isterv"es                                                        08,818,702
Descuento Aeorti ado                                          '   2,300,054
Camblos                                                               30,421
Iivideados y ParIllcpaclonhs                                         562,471
*1,792,528
CGA5tOS LWERAEIONALES DIRECTOS
w   InI.reses                                                    75,777,101
C04160Sms                                                         2,357,9?6
. . .... ...... __. _ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......___....... .                                                       in|
79 .15.l177 
RLSUILTIO orLIACIONAL DIREClO                                     12.657,351
OTROS5 iNIRESUS T GASTIS OPERACIONALES
Ingresoss                                                                                           o I
CO. t@cgI@n Ninetarl.                                               71,656                         a 0
Dversos                                                               9eo 0                                  I
72,636
**--------------
Oastos:                                                                                             . o
GaOsls de Personal                                                 202,827                       -  m
Slonurar ios                                                        37,239
lspn^oess                                                         U,856                             n
Arreodaalentos                                                      36,010                        . 
0
;   Sequroi~                                                             35.783 
Coatribuciones y Afillacionss                                       14,613                           s
Diverupl                                                           132,804                          It
804,112
RESULIADO OPERACIONAL ANTES DE PROVISIONES,
DEPRCCIACIONES I AN0RTIZACIONES                                   sI,925,875
Provitionbs                                                         95,814
DeprecisaCiufih                                                     2593
AmorliaAclons 2e,,24
UTILIDAD ANTES OE ISIPUESTO DE RENTA                              11,775,024
InpUESTO DL IUTA V CO1PLECnENTARIOS                                3,647.876
UTILIDAD NITA                                                      9,127,940
UTILIDAb UtlA PoU  ACCION                                             325.12



FINAGRO - Balance Sheet at December-31, 1991
FON0 PARA EL FI&IANCIAJENTO DEL SECTOR AOROPECUMIRO  flNAGRO
BALANCE GENERAL A DICIEIBRE 31 DC IF I
(Euresado an Niles de pesos colembla!.osl
UOTAI    3I K  DICIENERE                                                            NOTAS    31 DC sICIEn RE
'ACtlV0       '                                                *PASIVO 't PATRIIIGNIO DE LOS ACCINUISTAS
Il elPobtbI.3    5                                                 3,6;9,170           Cr#dlios de bantos y stras obliqaclones finec.    11   *    42,659,922
Voodoo 1:erbancarlo, Vendides '                           .ComntUs per Pagar.                                                                12        35,095,313
Factot do N"wts                                         4          6,oOOeOD
Pvtelos do Inverslon en circulacido                  13        303,107,435
I"verale"@s,Nblo                       s         ~~~~14*>72i59
*evessleees.IbIo  *                              Oltrs Pasivos                                         14   .86,.l51
Carl ra de CrdIsln,                                                                                                                                          -
V. v 41 Irsainti. real                                        356.336,464           TOTAL PASIVU EXTER9N                                           38&,232,021
Vmnclia haslt sels noses, garautil  real                           46,375                                                                        --------------
Veclcda dt sais a decu   sees  laranlla real                          4
Viqent. laraila personal                                           03,422           Matlmonlo de I0S Acctlnlstas
Viheida hasla oels aSses, qarat la persoma&           .6,422                                             1
Vencida de seos a d.ce aises, *arantla personal                    72,571
Vencids  as de duct i"us, qara"tla persoal                         70,.10
--------------         Capital Social                                        Is
357,304,313             Auteritado                                                    g0,0oo,000
Ibnos provision cartere de crdits                                     140,430            Capital por Suscribir                                         12S,000O
--------------           Suscrito y pagado                                             2z,000,000
Cartmr de crEdites oto                    6         3W7,163,0083          Utilidd del EJerciclo                                            *,127,V4U
Countas par cobrar Nto                                  7         3,6603,545       ;   Superavit por Valorigaclones                          16          4,493,646
Blaes recDtbides  Aen'aO. Note                                         9 8273------
Ilenes recibidos enpaqo, Mete  I  I,27a    Parltronis de los Accionistas                                    37,6 1.794
Prnpledades y Equipo. Note                              9            116.179
Olros Actives                                           to            35,308
Valorilaclnens                                          16         4,463,U46
10tAL ACTIVO.                                438,663,613              P    0SIVO V PAIRIIONIO DE LOS ACCIEOISTAS                   410,063,681
a.a . , ..S.....                                                                     *U33suums
Cuenlas d  Orden                                                                       Cuentas de Orden
Doudoras                                             17         S,293,101              irudoras per Contra                                17          3.291,601
Acreodoras par contra                                         555,790.002              Acreedoras                                         17        55s,780.002
Veanse las nolas quo so acoepalan a los esladostinanciaros                                                                                                   .. g
SatiagIo TOb@n  Rubl°                          Alfonso Escobar larrera                                                 Nntor J. IrlvlF



PnRcZo0IIitS           o EL 9I1CIO DI  DIOD901 D1 C11IT0 CO IL Bri7                                                                       ANNEX  1
Appendix-1
loato Prestano (961 Kiln) 250 00:                                                                                                          Table  6
Tasa  Iaters                   f.451
Rii.go de Cable usturu         0.801
Co!isioede~3mwus o            0251
2h.01
t; acic 19J                   14.
tot  -996 to             16.01
Ts de   o            1Di 3./192)  730
hvaloacian 1593        15.41
Os,alncio  1994            .  11.51
Denlaiic  1                    9.61
Dedw in  1996-2010              9.6R
Ut?(Ifec.) 1993                26.01
D F1ffet. 1994                 22.01
DS(HIc.  1995                20.02
Olt feic.  1996-2010           20.01
(miles do DoeaMm)                             d(Nullones d  po)es)
~ ~ ~. ~         .      . ........
m Lm O  Ro     OIZ.   1i1.  C910            SJLiYI !1        99 15 MP   0  !1.   IN.  C9t1os   Ear."  Cl OS  I mal S. DI3?QLE. TIP
110 SSM     P0                                        D R D  DI                   aXD                                       DI 21F  MMB   PM1   Dl
M =UU,. NM.                PI6&DCS CIPRO.   1INAL  1DISUOL. DISM.                 Pl0JDOS MNIE.   1iNiL   CtUCRA          & 039 a 58 I0801O   CU9iO
.. _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     .--------                                                                                                  ................._. _____... ..
1993    11     200,000    5,000        0    2,070      250   50,000   156,529   39,207       0    1,623       196                             813 34 1616.-
1994     1     160,000   4,O           0    3,726      20    90,000 ! 134,769    3,2         0    3,138      168  1i,878  4,11                           764.v
1      120,000   40,000       0   5,2          150  130,000 ! 106,749  8830          0    41,8       133      .5       58   12:225  122.3i7    889.5
1995  OCIODO   60 No  0        .75  190,       WM    56,370          ~~0  7,39         70  176.50   94        18684  18,5        93.
II           0   60,000        0   1030         0  250,00          0   59,018        0   1011          0 243.5'07   1.23    23,636  1514~  93.6
l99      I           0        0        0   10,350        0 250,000         0        0        0 i 10,65         027  ,581 291   24,839  270,4   1,       2 S.
11           0        0       0    103          0  250,00          0        0        0                 0 269.5520
1997                 0        0        0    1350         0    0,00          0        0        0                 0       14             6 1               3
if                                                                             I~~5,3  030  4,6    653    223  6,8   181   :2,2! 041 1.8.
1998     1                                                      705,78    10,112 8  17,512    12,5                2538         52    290    49r   1,231.0
1999                               s,                       22710 1                                                   1,72   61,0  ! 4   1,56,   23,777  319,619  1,29.5
1999                     ~~~~~6,27    98426462 I844   1306                                                30169    158 3,0    2,8    ,5.
RCJIU:I                    6,508    9,376           2    7 e          l          9,239x  13,31e          prXes 4  31,39 1,3    32    30        1t4 0.i
2000     1                         6,7       ,06            2311 e                      1,3 13539                 318,958    1,        TO15934,0    ,8.
11                         7,5      8,82            20,12                       1098    13,38             32,84.  1             I0 VA50   348,8  15838
2001     1                         7,4      81,                                          11,9r5o  1390            323,961 ial3          lo0o 19 2,iS 1,
11                  65~~~~~~82 29191,128 I                             13,5    14,023612                    111   33,61         .91   1,708.
2002                                        7,913131711,3                                          4,3              7,0        ,8      4065 6',    1,75.
if   ~ ~   ~ ~ ,29           7531485                                       552 1413           ~       7041 84           3,3   38,51,80.
2003                                ,4       ,3             1827I1,24 1,7                                           2,93    1,819   341f9  38,61,9.2
if                         9,000    6,391 t2   I                                14            6           32,3       1,82    34,891e          I: 2.0
2004     1                          ,7       ,0             1784 :  I4                   2015 1,7                     .3531,83    3493 3807  2.146.a
II971                                ,2             138,083                               is198 1,5        1035      185 3,45324424.
205no0s5                                     ,1             127,919                       397   13,4513095                    182 3,9 38781",329
200                           1055      528117,333 I                                  807 13,4                 28,4       179 34,152  31042,4  .5
200                          1104       ,8             108,310 I2,3                          1,597492                     ,53 3.5093418 4   2,7.
II           11,480    4,401          ~~~~~~94,629 3100 1,8                                  235071     1,10    326732,7 270.
2007-                              195       ,2              82,87  I360 1,9                                        3430      189 3,3           3, 81 2,2.2
208 if240                                ,3              70,42  I3,5                          1058208,453                 1,7    30,47  29,7    ,60.0
2008  1                            2~~~1298   296   57,458I4,8                             ,3             178,013    1,481   28.278  273,859  3,059.0
II                        13,0      2,37             43,955!                     4,810    7,718            142,5617    1,369   26,138  247,099  3.244.c
2009                              14,06     1,82             29,894!                     47,7      6,182           109,549    1,235   23.584 215,499  3,391.80
II 1A do: 1 'i,25 01                                                                      082 H :  02             54:23a    1,01   2056   17,0    ;f
VU  t118:LSS tuudes         nci  cos In dadas pot el Cobiems  Para Ion prukos 4 dios I5 It on =      1 el . a soiul par  el mesto del prido
IA deylsaclo  as cakilo iobne la bans de mtmer mas" fyi dl Ingnc do Tuas docu    Real (M10) Igual ade fimales do- 1992, en de-ir,
hhn dmluaciu   si enlracioues mi   del Peox                  i ain.
I!  a?    proect. sataslundo as sirel de I5ustos por sean de la Isfliaon de amsrdo mo  . el  apotnaieoto bistotico.
11120  10 Vcp lag n cib la do Cndlto



58 -
ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR               Page 1
FINAGRO's STUDIES
DEMANDA Y OFERTA DE CREDITO AGROPECUARIO Y LA PARTICIPACION
DEL SISTEMA FINANCIERO EN LA FINANCIACTON DEL
SECTOR AGROPECUARIO
(TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA)
1. ANTECEDENTES
El sector financiero colombiano se halla en estos momentos en un
periodo de transici6n. De un sistema subsidiado, controlado y
dirigido, particularmente en el sector de credito agricola, se esta
pasando a unos mecanismos mucho mds dependientes del mercado. La
evoluci6n en el sector de cr6dito agricola, sin embargo, se ve
dificultada por unos problemas estructurales de fallas de mercado
y politicas financieras inadecuadas que han impedido el desarrollo
del sector privado financiero en el financiamiento de la
agricultura colombiana, y ademis por la falta de informaci6n
cuantitativa sobre cr6dito agricola.
Een efecto, el sector agropecuario en Colombia no dispone de
estadisticas adecuadas y completas sobre el cr6dito que se canaliza
hacia ese sector ni de un sistema de informacifn b4sico gue permita
determirtar tanto las necesidades como las fuentes de financiaci6n.
Actualmente, se cuenta tan solo con una informaci6n fragmentaria,
esporgdica y dispersa que recogen y mantienen algunas entidades
financieras (algunas de manera regular) que participan en el
cr6dito agropecuario. Ademas, dicha informacifn no responde a
criterios unificados con lo cual es prdcticamente imposible su
consolidaci6n.
De otra parte hay una gran cantidad de recursos que se canalizan al
sector agropecuario por vias distintas a las del sistema financiero
formal, con lo cual las estadisticas disponibles resultan siempre
limitadas.
No obstante lo anterior, y sobre la base da las estadisticas
disponibles en el antiguo Fondo financiero Agropecuario y en
Finagro, se ha logrado identificar que una de las limitaciones del
mercado financiero qua mas ha afectado &I sector agropecuario ha
sido el comportamiento poco dinamico en el crecimiento de los
recurBos   globales   de   financiamiento   a   las   actividades
agropecuarias. Los anrlisis de is infcrmaci6n disponible muestran
que, en t6rminos reales, el voluien de recursos creci6 durante la
idltima mitad de la decada de los setentas, pero disminuy6 en forma
sostenida desde 1984 y alcanz6 su mds bajo nivel en 1987. El
eBfuerzo realizado durante los filtimos tres afios para aumentar los
volimenes de cr6dito permitieron una recuperacion importante de
dichos recursos, pero en 1991 s8lo se logr6 alcanzar un nivel
cercano al observado en 1984.



- 59*-
ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 2
De esta manera, durante buena parts de la d6cada de los ochentas
hubo po0o crecimiento del cr6dito de fomento al sector, ya q.ue los
recursos fueron muy esBasos, y lo agricultores tuvieron que acudir
crecientemente al cr6dito comercial o extrabancario para atender
los requerimientos de financiacifn de sus proyectos productivos.
Por eso, una meta fundamental para el cr6dito agropecuario es la de
incrementar el flujo de recursos financieros al sector pa.-a qua, en
forma sufioiente y oportuna, se logre atender adecuadamente la
demanda de credito durante los pr6ximos afios.
Otro de los hechos que se ha podido constatar es la evidente
disminuci6n de la participaci6n del sistema financiero  en la
colocaci6n del credito agropecuario, que se ha venido concentrando
en uios pocos intermediarios especializados, asi como una notable
ausencia de desarrollo de los servicios financieros en las zonas
rurales .
Esto es una consecuencia l6gica de deficiencias del mercado
financiero, que se ha concentrado fundamentalmente en atender las
actividades comerciales e industriales que se reali:-an en zonas
urbanas, lo cual ha implicado un cierto grado de discriminaci6n on
contra de las necesidades de financiamiento para las actividades
agropecuarias.
El cr6dito agropecuario est4 cada vez mds restringido a la acci6n
de los bancos oficiales especializados, y los demas intermediarios
financieros han mostrado una clara tendencia a reducir su
vinculaci6n con las operaciones de cr6dito a los productores del
sector. Esto resulta mgs critico aiTn en el caso de los paquefios
productores y de las zonas mds marginadas, para los1 cuales s6lo
existe la posibilidad de acudir a la Caja Agraria, entidad qus
concentra la mayor participaci6n en la colocaci6n del cr6dito
agropecuario.
Esta circunstancia se ha originado, en parte, por la percepci6n de
los intermediarios financieros de que las actividades agropecuarias
tienen mayores riesgos que las de otros sectores, por la
inestabilidad de la produccifn, por sus sensibilidad a los cambios
climaticos y por las frecuentes dificultades que enfrenta su
comercializaci6n.
Ademas, un factor quo ha sido tambi6n determinante en el poco
inter6s que tiene el sistema financiero para vincularse a la
agricultura es la situaci6n de orden puOblico y los problemas de
violencia que tradicionalmente han afectado mas severamente a las
zonas rurales del pais.
Por otra parte, las entidades financieras tambien han argumentado
que son mucho mayores los costos que implica la profundizaci6n del
mercado financiero en las zonas alejadas de las concentraciones
urbanas, y que la rentabilidad de las operaciones de cr6dito a la
agricultura se reduce frente a otras opciones mas convenientes en
otros sectores.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 3
Otra limitaci6n que encuentra el sistema financiero, que es propia
del sector agropecuario, es que los productores rurales no han
desarrollado el mismo nivel de cultura financiera que se ha logrado
en zonas urbanas o en otros sectores econ6micos, lo cual
efectivamente limita el acceso de un niumero importante de
agricultores al sistema crediticio e inhibe a los intermediarios a
disef1ar estrategias de acercamiento al sector.
Pero tal vez la raz6n que mds ha determinado este notable
distanciamiento del sector financiero es la baja rentabilidad
relativa quae se ofreoce a los intermediarios en el financiamiento de
la produccion agropecuaria. Esto obedeci6 en parte a la aplicaci6n
de subsidios a las tasas de inter6s, que fomentaron la
concentracion  del  cr6dito,   limitaron  las  condiciones  del
financiamiento, generaron deaviaciones de recursos y no resultaron
efectivas en el logro de los objetivos redistributivos que les
fueron asignados.
El cr6dito subsidiado siempre ha sido muy escaso y no son claros
los beneficios que se obtienen con fijar tasas baje.s si no hay
recursos suficientes para prestar en esas condiciones. Asi, cuando
al agricultor 's le financia una parte reducida del costo de su
cultivo, tiene que salir al mercado a obtener lo0 recursos
suplementarios a intereses mucho mcs altos. En esas condiciones, au
tasa no es precisamente la que paga por el credito de fomento, sino
la que resulta de los dos componentes, ciertamente mas elevada de
la que estaria dispuesto a pagar si obtuviera una financiacifn
suficiente con el ar6dito de fomento.
Esto es partieularmente importante si se tiene en cuenta que, como
consecuencia  de  la  baja  disponibilidad  de  recursos,   el
financiaciamiento a la agricultura ha sido sometido a una aerie de
restricciones que se traducen en topes a laB financiaciones
unitarias y limite. a la asignaci6n de recursos por producto y/o
actividad, asi como on frecuentes interrupciones del flujo de
financiamiento en determinadas 6pocas del as?o. A finales de 1990
existian diversos  limiteo de eata naturaleza,  que implicaban
financiaciones deode .l 30% hasta el 1OOX de los costo8 do
producci6n, lo cual generaba evidentes distorsiones en la
asignaci6n de los recursos.
Las subsidios a las tasaw de inter6s si generaron, en cambio, una
aerie de requisitos y de controles previos y posteriores que hacen
del cr6dito de fomento una operaci6n complicada y costosa, lo cual
tambi6n ha limitado el acceso de muchos productores a este tipo de
financiaci6n.
Los subsidios no pueden ser asumidos exclusivamente por los
intermediarios financieros a traves de rentabilidades muy baJas en
las inversiones obligatorias, ni tampoco por Finagro a trav6s del
desequilibrio de sue presupuesto8. Por eso, cuando ellos se
juatifiquen deben emplearse macanismos m&s transparentes, como son
las transferencias directas del presupuesto nacional u otros



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 4
instrumentos que no generen las distorsiones que se presentan con
las tasas de inter6s .ubsidiadas.
2. OBJETIVOS GENE1RALES
Elaborar un estudio que permita, par una parte, determinar la
oferta global de recuraos de cr6dito al sector agropecuario
(oferta) y las necesidades actuales y potenciales de financiaci6n
de dicho sector (demanda), asi como diseftar un sistema de
informaci6n que permita monitorear permanentemente la demanda y
oferta del cr6dito agropecuario. Por la otra, identificar las
limitantes a la participaci6n de los intermediarios financieros,
distintos a los especializados,  en la financiaci6n al sector
agropecuario y proponer un plan de acci6n que permita superar
dichas limitantes con el prop6sito de desconcentrar el otorgamiento
del credito agropecuario y aumentar los recureos disponibles.
Igualmente, el estudlo revisarA y evaluard el funcionamiento del
sector financiero agricola-rural y su acoplamiento al sistema
financiero colombiano en general y propondra algunos lineamientos
futuros sobre los esquemas y estrategias de financiaci6n para el
sector agropecuario.
3. OBJETIVOS ESPECIFICOS
1. Estimar is oferta global de recursos de cr&dito al sector
agropecuario identificando las fuentes tanto formales como
informales de financiaci6n.
2. Estimar series de dicha oferta global con un periodo lo mAs
largo posible (a determinar con el consultor) desagregada por
diferentes  criterioe.(  fuentes,  plazos,  beneficiarios,
actividades financiadas, etc.)
3. Estimar ia demanda global de cr6dito agropecuario con los
requerimientos fijados en los puntos anterioreo para la
oferta.
4. Diseflar la estructura de un sietema de informacoi6n quo
permita monitorear permanentemente la demanda y oferta del
credito agropecuario y la participaci6n del sistema financiero
en la financiacoi6n.
5. Determinar las fuentes de informacion, las estructuras de
salida,  los  usuarios,  etc.  y  todos  los  procedimientos
requeridos pars el adecuado funcionamiento del sistema.
S. Determinar loa factores que limitan la participaci6n de los
intermediarios financieros en la financiaci6n del credito
agropecuario, identificando au nivel de vinculaci6n con la



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 5
politica agropecuaria, una posible mapa jerarquizado de
interrelaciones entre dichos factores y de lo agentes
involucrados.
7. Proponer una estrategia concreta de promoci6n para
estimular   la  participacifn  de  nuevos   intermediarios
financieros en la canalizaci6n de cr6dito agropecuario, a la
luz de los resultados del diagn6stico. Dicha estrategia deberd
contemplar diferentes mecanismos y/o productos de promoci6n,
asi como las funciones y lo niveles de responeabilidad quo le
competan a las diferentes entidades que resulten involucradas.
y ademas, proponer algunos lineamientos futuros sobre los
esquemas y estrategias de financiacion para el sector
agropecuario.



-63-
ANNX 2
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBLA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
Ca1a Agraria
Backaround
1.            Caja de Credito Agrarlo, Industrial y Minero, generally known as
Caja Agrariap is one of the largest banks in Colombia with assets as at
December 31, 1991 of Col$ 900 billion (US$1.4 billion) and the largest credit
institution lending to agriculture in Colombia. A complete description of its
past performance appears in the Corporate Plan (Attachment 1) prepared in the
context of the proposed project. As can be seen from the figures quoted in
the Plan, Caja's financial performance has seriously deteriorated during the
last five years; because of Caja's important role in agricultural credit, both
in terms of volume and coverage of the small farmer sector, this deterioration
has a wide Impact.
2.          Until 1974, Caja regularly showed profits every year; in the
second part of the seventies, as a result of an onerous contract signed with
the workers' union, Caja started facing increasing financial losses every
year. By the end of 1982, losses that had reached about US$300 million had to
covered by Government to maintain minimum equity/assets level.
The Institutional Modernization Program (Loan 2909-CO)
3.          In an effort to stem the erosion of its financial resources, Caja
prepared, in 1985, an institutional development project to improve its
internal efficiency and presented the project to the Bank for possible
financing. In January 1988, a Bank loan of US$15 million was approved
(Ln. 2909-CO). The main objective of the project was to strengthen Caja to
help meet the agricultural sector's credit needs in a more efficient manner.
The project, which is expected to cost "bout US$35 million, included
components for Branch Improvements (civil works) - US$16 million, office
equipment including computers - US$14.3 million, training - US$1 million and
technical assistance US$3.7 million. The project has been under
implementation for the last two years, and a contract with IBM to develop
automated systems and equipment for Bank branch operations is underway and
schGduled to be completed by December 31, 1992. In undertaking the project,
Caja agreed to improve efficiency which would be measured by a set of
performance targets. An additional proof of Caja's deteriorating situation
was that practically none of these performance indicators was ever reached, as
shown in Table 1.
Continued losses
4.          Reported financial losses abated somewhat in the period from 1986
through 1989 and ran&ed from Col$ 3,000 million to 7,000 million but jumped
dramatically in 1990 to Col$ 36,500 million (US$66 million), mainly due to the



- 64 -
Page 2 of 2
Superintendent of Banks' request for Caja to increase the provision for
pension fund liabilities which Caja had been underproviding in 1988 and 1989.
Operating losses during the last three audited years, 1989, 1989 and 1990 hav.
reached respectively Col$ 7,172 million, ColS 6,248 million and
Col$ 36,423 million, or US$21.5 million, US$14.4 million and US$65.8 million
at the yearly average exchange rate. Total accumulated losses appear in the
1990 balance sheet as Col$ 43,468 million, or US$78.5 million, or about half
of the total of US$166.7 million of share capital and assets reevaluation. As
a result of these high losses, and projected higher losses for the years to
come, the Government formed a task force, in December 1990, to study Caja's
rroblems and to recommend a course of action. The findings and
recommendations of this task force are documented and discussed in the
Corporate Plan.
Financial Statements
5.          Attached are summaries of Co Agraria's financial statements to
serve as background material in the re-.. ng of the Corporate Plan. The
financial statements for the years 1985 ~ 1991 are on Table 2 (pages 1 to 3),
and preliminary financial projections for years 1992-1995, based on the
implementation of the Corporate Plan, and three other possible alternatives,
are on pages 12 to 27 of Attachment 1.
Documents Attached:
Key Performance Indicators (Loan 2909-Co)                 ..       Table 1
Financial Statemento, Years 1985-1991 ..........  Table 2, pages 1 to 3
Caja Agraria's Corporate Plan                         .       Attachment 1
ot obr 2.. 1992



-.65-
Table I
ilUctmLm II atm= ROzCt
WA
En Performance Targets - Loan 2909.GO
- 191?18818                                     1990          1991   1
Admn  c st ActUal  Target AC     STarget ActUal  Target Actual  Actual
AmA. Costs
Iacrease *a a S
over 1986 (real)  0.00   0.42    0.00  8.69       0.00  -8.60    0.00  20.40       20.81
Adam" Costa as a
Z of the Loan
Pnrtfolio        17.60  16.81   16.30 18.35    14.90  15.23   13.79  21.69         30.25
IrmnCb Office
Scaff as a x of
Total Staff                      86.00 85.60    88.00  83.50   90.00  83.20
Loan Arrears as a
Z of the Loan
Portfolio        16.00  18.87   15.00 19.83    14.00  16.49   12.00  15.61         24.74
hAnual Growth in
Deposits (real)   4.50   4.07    7.00 -5.52       7.50   5.86    8.00  -3.73       -9.76
11 In the Loan Docuemts the sbove targets vere agreed for the poriod 1987 to 1990.



-66 -                                         AhN  2
CAJA AGRARIA                                   Table 2
SUM1ARY FINANCIAL STATEDENTS                                        Qf 3
CAJA AGRARIA
BALANCE SHEET
CtJRRENCY              NtLLIONS SCOL
F I    AN C t AL   POS I T I ON
CAJA AGRAIA            12/31/85   X  12/31/86   X  12/31/87   X  12/31/88   X  12/31/89    X  121/90   X  12/31/91   2
A S S E t S            AUDITED        AUDITED        AUDITED        AUDITED        AUDITED        ASITED          ESTIMATE
CASH AND DEMAND           15,831    7   21,058    7   29,897    a   33,964    7    47,645    7   65,224    8   87,256          9
OEPOSITS 2 CENTRL NOK          0    a              a          O  O          0    0          0    0         O    0        '0    0
eovT SECURITIES                0    0              0         0    0         0    0          0    0         0    0         0    0
INT FRCt1 BONOS               0    0               0         0    0         0    0         0    a         0    0         0    0
OTHER INVESTMENTS         6,830    3   10,702    4   10,522    3   39,203    8    38,866    6   42,630    5   52,260    5
.._._ ....... ____.._....................... ______...................... ___........_._._._.__........................... ___.._...........__._._._._
TL HMINIM  RISK ASSTh   22,61       9   31,760   11   40,419   11   73,167   15    86,511   13  107,854   13  139,526   14
LOANS,AOVANCES,DISCNTS 132,338   55  186,459   62  243,301   64  303,722  61   404,740   62  491,039   59  477,401 . 49
PAST-DUE LOANS            8,476    4    6,988    2   17,599    5   30,504    6    22,366    3   32,186    4   S1,172    5
OTHER LATE REC            4,081    2   12,287    4    8,256    2    1,939    0         4,202    1         0    0          0    0
LM LOSS RES GENE   4,039    2    5,484    2    8,078    2   17,096    3    13,744    2   22,270    3   33,790    3
...................................................................... I................................................................................................................... _
NET LOANS               140,856   58  200,250   67  261,078   69  319,069   64   417,564   64  500,955   61  494,783   51
CURR OVEROUES                       0              0              0              °       0                      0              0
(Inet. In Net Loans)    13,242    5   17,261    6   23,414    6   30,841    6    42,305          6   45,994    6   71,243    7
INT REC GOVNT                  0    0         0    0         a    0         0    0         0    0         0    a          0    0
WOV RECEIVASLES          32,024   13   28,540   10   27,03a    7   25,544    5    32,429    5   33,535   -4   34,008    4
INTEREST REC              8,456    4   10,959    4   16,482    4   24,742    5    37,123    6   65,454    8   74,000    8
LOANS IN FOR CUR          9,943    4    4,594    2    4,199    1    6,808    1              0    0         0    0         0    0
OTHER RECSVABLES          8,771    4    2,721    1    2,543    1    5,354    1    23,948    4   37,595.   5   44,269    5
ECUtPMENT LEASED               0    0              0         0    0         a    0          0    0.        O-   0         0    0
_ ._........................................... __.............._...   _.......................
TL NOItNL RISK ASSETS  200,050   83  247,064   83  311,340   83  381,517   76   511,064   78 *63,539   77  647,060   67
._................................. ..................................................................................
TOTAL BANKINCG ASSETS   222,711   92  278,824   93  351,759   93  454,684   91   597,575   92  745,393   90  786,586   81-
0              0              0              0               0              0
PREMISESCHET)              1,922    1    2,785    1    3,696    1    7,079    1        8,968    1   1?,553    2   13,714    t
ACCUNL DE?                 1,333    1    1,580    1    1,866    C    2.351    0        3,093    0    4,384    1    5,092 . t
ASSET REV                  9,789    4   10,1i7    3    9,855    3   19,355    is 49,949    3 * 28,567    3   28,535    3.
INS DIV                    i,413    1    1,917    1    2,593    1    3,579    1        6,160    1   t,111    1    9,515    I
ACRIC INPUTS               3,094    1    2,860    1    5,937    2   11,602    2    18,504    3   32,812    4   26,378    3
-  .......... ............_ee ........................................... __._......................
TOTAL LONG TErN ASSETS  16,218    7   17.679    6   22,081    6   41,615    8    53,58t    8   82,043   10   78,142   .8
...................... ........... ..................................I............ I......-----------.........._
DEfERRED EXPENSES                   0         3    0         0    0         0    0               0              0              0
SUNDRY ASSETS              2,66.    1 .2,042       1    3,515    1    3,583    1            0    0         0    .0        0
PENSION GUARANTEE                   a                            .0              0               0             .0  106,600   1t
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS    2,869    1    2,042    1    3,515    1    3,583    1              0    0          0    0  106,600   11
.......................................................................................................................... 
T O T A L  A S S e T s 241,598  100  298,545  tOQ  377,355  tOO  4",S            100    651,156  100  82,436  tOO  971,!28  tOO0



ANX 2
- 67 -                                   Table Z
..~~~~~~~~~6
*   *  *                             Page 2  of  3
O'CAJA ACRARIA
BALANCE SHEET
CURRENCY:             MILLIONS SCOL
12/31/SI  X  12/31/86   S  12/31/87   2  12451/88   S  12/1/89    X  12/31/90   X  12/31/91   X
CAJA AGRARIA          AWtTED        AUDITED       AUDITED       AUDtTED       AWtSTED        AUDtIED       ESTIMATED
DEMAND DEPOSITS/OTHER  34,7S7   14  41,477   14  53,194   14  64,756   13   90,383   14  113,768   14  114,333   12
SAVINGS                  6,481   19  63,709   21   80,487  21   95,977   19  119,043  18  149,360   18  178,616   18
TINE DEPOSITS/OTHER     13,695    6  21,661    7   25,733    7   26,142    5   32,680    5   31,149    6   76,233.   8
OTHER                   15,200   6    8,753    3   15,578   4   24,911    5   38,334    6   40,510    5   37,990    4
0    0        0    0        0   0         0    0         0   a         0    0        0    0
OTHER DEPOSITS               0    0        0    0        0    0        0    0         0   0         0    0         0    0
NEGOTIA8LEC'S                0   0         0    0        0   0        la    0         0    0        0    0         0    0
0UE TO FOR. BANKS            0    0        0    0        0    0        0    0    2,050    0   3,830 0    5,262    1
......... ............................................                         _.....................
TOTAL DEPOSITS         110,163  46  135,600   45  174,992   46 211,786   42   282,710  43  360,617   44  41Z,634   42
............................................. ........................ ...................................................
NEW  ORLD BANK LOAN          0    0        0    0        0   0         0    0     1,225    0    2,046    0         0    0
FFAP,FFI ETS            33,280   14  SC,313   17  63,809   17  100,131   20   150,231   23  187,432   23  233,512   24
BANCO DE LA REP. DtSC   11,425    5   13,585    5   12,498   3   12,148    2          0    0        0    0         0    0
AID LOANS                    7    0        4    0        2   0         0    0         0   0         0    0         0O
BRANCHES AND AGENC       4,931    2   6,804    2    8,096    2   9,467    2    10,401    2   6,248    1   16,390    2
BONDS PAYABLE           12,443    5   16,950    6   22,695    6   27,746    6   34,508    S   44,827    5   42,593    4
APPROP RET. PUUI        39,234   16  45,424   15   53,528   14  66,433   13   68,513   11  90,533   11  106,626   II
INSURANCE LIAO               0    0        0    0        0    0        a    0         0    0        0    0         0    0
RES. FOR INSURANCE         910   0    1,604    1   2,281    1   3,009    1    5,197    1            0    0         0    0
OTHER LIABILITIES        8,575    4    5,649    2   12,203    3    9,247    2   34,821    5  86,943   11   88,272    9
OTHER CREDITS             ..-0    0        0    0         0    0       0    0         0    0        0    0         0    0
_._._ .......___......._._...._.__......... _.._.__......._ ._.... _........ _.. __.... _.... .... ........... ......................
TL SENIOR LIABILITIES  220,968   91 275,933   92 350,104   93  439,967  88  587,606  90  778,666   94  900,027   93
.......... ................... _E_...___..__.. _........ _._       ._...._._.... ...... ........... ........................7-
TOTAL  IABILITIES      220,968   91  275,933   92 350,104   93 439,967   88   587,606   90  778,A66   94  900,027  93
SHARE CAPITAL           13,879   6   18,57      6   24,490    6   40,332    8    50,314   8   63,761    S   63,761    7
ACcUm GAINCLOSS)        (3,102)  (1) (6,202) t2) (7,209)  (2)          20    0    C6,912)  Cl) (43,975)  tCt512,058) (13)
LAW 68 CIF                   0    0        0    0         0   0        0    0         0    0    *0    0            0    0
LAWU 68  DS                  0    0        0    0         0   'O       0    0         0    0         0    0        0   0
LEGAL RESERVES               0   0         0    0         0   0        0    0...      0              0    a        0    0
ASSET REVJ.              9,853    4   10,239    3    9,970   3   19,563    4    19,943   3   28,567    3   28,535    3
ACC. EARN INS.    .0    0                  0    0         0   0         0    0         0   0         0    0 .0
PENSION WARANTEE             0    0        0 0            0   0       O 0             0   0         0    0  106,600  t1
O    0        0    0        0   0         0    0         0   0       417    0      463    0
._._..._................... _.......__ .... _._ ......._.__._._....................... _.......................
NET WORTH               20,630   9   22,612   &   27,231   7   59,915   12   63,550   10  48,770    6   71,301    7
TL LIABS    IET WRTH   241,598  100 298,545  100 377,355  100 499,882  100  651,156  lOO  827,436  100  971,328  100



'ANNtEX 2
- 68 -                               Table  2
; CAJAAGRARIA                           .    - -         -                                            Page 3 of 3.
UAJA A0URtA
INcME 8TATUENT
CURRlNCY: 5ILLIONS SC
CAJA A    tRARIA       12/11/5   X  1t31A6   2  12/31/27  I2 12/31/8                         S 12/11/9    1  12/31/90   X  1V31/91   X
AUIITED        UDtTID       AUAITED        AWDITED       AUDITED         AWITED
.. ^*voov*@^^*oe@vovo@*os^oe¢@6* ...................................................................................................................................__
INTEREST INCOE          34,599   95   ".679   9f   5,597   94   75,779   94   103,73   94  141,            93  161,199   95
INTEREST EXPERSE         18,769   51   24,609   52   30,864   50   40,199   50   k53,98   49   n,145   52  100,24   59
OTHER INT. UXP.               a             0              0    0        0    0          0 . 0         0    0         0   0
........................................... .............. . .............
NET NTEREST INCOME       15,80   43   20,070   43   27,713   45   35,580          50,085   45   63,650   42   60,953   36
....................................................................................................... 7..................
COWM  & FEE INC           1,958    5    2,524   5    3,44    6    5.187    6        6,7       6    9,882    7    8,439    5
INVESTNENT INCOE              0 0           0  0          0   0          0    0         0    0         0    0         0    0
SWRY TNCCME                   0    0        0   0         0    0         0    0         0    0         0    0         0    0
.......................................................................................................................
TOTAL OPERATING REVENU  36,557  100   47,203  100  62,061  100   80,966  .100   110,565  100  151,677  100  169,638  100
MET INT.INC., COM. &   17,7.6   49   22,594   48  31,177  50   40,767   50    56,567   51   73,532   48   69,392   41
................................... ....,..............................
LESS;                              0             0              0             0               0             0              0
CUIMORL UK TA             19    0       23    0        2    0        81    0          0    0        0    0         0    0
OTIER "HIm             8,004   22   11446   24   13,367  22   20,692   26    14,677   13   25,935   17   23,153   14
EPRECTN&D a ORT          249    1       250    1      324    1      532    1      1,167    1    1,732    1   2,267    1
tNCOLLECT ACCTS        2,927    8    4,018    9    5,435    9   13,574   17       7,919    7   15,342   10   20,233   1Z
_*^*so.............................................  _.........................
NET OPERATING INCOME      6,589   18    6,85    15   12,024   19    5,68    7    33,104   30   30,503   20   23,739   14
OTHER                     6,720   18    9,238   20   10,56   17   15,696   19    (2,201)  -2          79    0       283    0
PROVtSIONS LOAN LOSS           0  0          00             00            0  0           0    0        0    0         0    0
INSURANCE                2,451    7    3,497   7    4,904    8    7,511    9        7,07    6    9,943    7    7,26    4
SALE AG t;0O8             1,915    5    1,513    3    2,010    3    4,364    S       6,114    6   10,525    7    5,88      3
OERACC EXPENSES               0   0          0   6         0 0           0 0                  0         0    0        0    0
CREIT CAtD
,.........................................................................................................................
NET tNC  EP MERS         17,675   48   21,105   4U 29,484   48   33,459   41    44,104   40   51,050   34   37,170   22
.........................................................................................................................
PERSONEL OP              17,48    48   24,074   51   30,491   49   40,631   Jt  U                 87,563   58  121,253   71
NET PROFIT                  192    1   (2,969)  -6   (1.007) *2   (7,172)  *9   (6,248)  -6  (3&,513) -24  (84,083) -50



- 69 -
AM=e 2
Attachment 1
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
Cali Agraria Corporate Plan
Table of Contents
ZaM
Corporate Plan.. ... . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .  .  1-8
Tim-Table of Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-9
Performance Indicator   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    9
Alternative Financial Projections . . . ..  . ..  . . . 10-17



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 17
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
CAJA AGRARIA CORPORATE PLAN
Backgroun4
1.          CAJA DE CREDITO AGRARIO, INDUSTRIAL E MINERO, generally known as
Caja Agraria, is one of the largest banks in Colombia with assets as at
12/31/91 of Col$ 900 000 million (US$1.4 billion) and the largest credit
institution lending to agriculture in Colombia. As at 12/31/91, Caja had 886
bank branches and about 460 stores selling agricultural inputs and a total
staff of about 15,000. Because of Caja's important role in agricultural
credit, both in terms of volume and coverage of the small farmer sector, its
financial performance has a wide ianact. The provision of specialized rural
credit began in Colombia in 1924 with the establishment of Banco Hipotecario
(BAH) -o provide loans for rural housing. In 1925, a section was created
(Caja de Ahorros) to mobilize savings and in 1927, in an effort to lower the
cost of production for farmers, another section was added for the provisior. of
agricultural oupplies such as machinery, fertilizers, seeds and insecticides.
In 1931, BAH was reorganized into two separate institutions, Caja de Credito
Agrario and Caja Colombiana de Ahorros. Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y
Minero (CAJA) was created when these two institutions merged in 1934. In
1944, CAJA's scope of operations was widened to include the sale of insurance.
Past Performance
2.          Until 1914, CAJA regularly showed profits every year;  the reasons
were multiple, among which the most important were : (i) it enjoyed a
practical monopoly in the mobilization of rural savings, remunerated at a rate
much lower than in the large towns; (ii) it enjoyed relative freedom from
reserve requirements imposed on other banking institutions; and (iii) it
issued bonds that commercial banks had to buy as forced investments,
remunerated at 4Z nominal, until these were abolished in 1990. In the second
half of the seventies, under pressure from the workers' union, Caja through
consecutive negotiations, granted increases in overall compensation and, most
importantly, a generous pension plan.   By the early 1980s, CAJA was facing
continuing financial losses due mainly to increasing personnel costs as a
result of rapidly inc :easing staff levels at higher real wages, and of
provisions for accrued pensions. By the end of 1983, these losses had
accumulated to COL$ 30,000 million (US$300 million). In order to maintain
minimum equity/asset levels, Government had to cover this accumulated loss
with a series of promissory notes, some of which are still outstanding.



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 17
Present Financial Status
3.          Reported financial losses abated somewhat in the period from 1986
through 1989, but jumped dramatically in 1990 to Col$ 36,500 million (US$66
million) mainly due to the Superintendent of Banks' request for Caja to
increase the provision for pension fund liabilities which Caja had been
underproviding in 1988 and 1989. Total accumulated losses appear in the 1990
balance sheet as Col$ 43,468 million, or US$78.5 million, or about half of the
total of US$166.7 million of share capital and assets reevaluation. As a
result of these high losses, and projected higher losses for the years to
come, the Government formed a task force in December 1990, to study CAJA's
problems and to recommend a course of action.
4.          Based on the recommendations of the task force, Decree 1755 was
passed on July 4, 1991 outlining a new operational plan for CAJA and a
restructuring agreement was signed on December 4, 191 with the FONDO DE
GARANTIAS DE INSTITUCIONES FINANCIERAS (FOGAPIN), the Guarantee Fund for
Financial Institutions, representing the Government. Under the terms of this
agreement, FOGAFIN has issued a Letter of Guarantee for Col$ 106,000 million,
ensuring the payment of CAJA's pension plan, in case CAJA became insolvent.
The agreement also stipulated that Caja would reduce its staff by about 4,500
(this was carried out in late 1991, at a cost in severance pay of about
Col$ 30,000 million - about US$50 million). In addition several covenants
dictated that Caja, within dated deadlines, would submit plans for
improvements to be introduced in several of its activities.
5.          Apart from the termination of about 4,500 staff, and that
POGAPIN's Letter of Guarantee was registered ir, CAJA's books as additional
equity, thus satisfying the Superintendencia Bancaria's ratio of equity to
risk assets, no other specific action was taken to improve Caja. The value of
FOGAPIN's Letter of Guarantee, which was non-negotiable and represented no
cash transfer, did not, however, provide badly needed additional resources to
Caja, nor did the Government transfer any new funds to Caja.
6.          In the absence of any specific action, Caja's resources have
-continued to erode as a result of accumulated and continuing losses, and the
reduced mobilization of deposits. Caja has beer, unable to maintain its level
of lending, and the amount of loans processed during the last three years has
been shrinking, in real terms, by 19Z from 1989 to 1990 and by a further 371
from 1990 to 1991; the budgeted lending program for 1992 represents, in real
terma, only 54Z of what it was in 1990. Also, diminishing income from less
lending has not been offset by a reduction in administrative and operational
costs, which remain at a level difficult to support. Another problem is the
erosion in the quality of its portfolio which has deteriorated during the past
three to four years; eventual portfolio losses are not fully reflected in its
provision for bad debts.
7.          As a result of this accumulation of financial and management
problems over time, it became clear to Government and Caja that the



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 17
institution had to be restructured in all aspects, and that Caja's future role
had to be redefined. In the light of this redefinition, the contract signed
with Government and FOGAPIN in December F1C91 has to be complemented and
expanded to represent Caja's plan of action for the next 5 years.
Obiectives
8.          The basic objectives of a restructured and rationalized Caja
Agraria are:
-     to finance agricultural and rural sector development;
-     to promote the development of an efficient financial rural sector,
thus contributing to financial sector development;
-     to operate under financial performance criteria equivalent to
those of privately owned financial institutions;
-     to limit its activities to banking and credit, except for lending-
related insurance, the family subsidy program under trust fund
arrangements with the Government and ancillary non-lending support
services to the Government under a well defined fee structure, the
latter only until such time as the Government can assign the
responsibilities to a more appropriate institution; and
-     ultimately, as these objectives are met, to regionalize and/or
privatize part or all of Caja itself.
Policies
9.          Target Market.  Caja will principally focus its resource
mobilizationg financing and banking activities on the market segment of small-
and medium-scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs in rural areas. Within the
financial capabilities provided by the resources it mobilizes and by available
rediscounting facilities, Caja will finance any profitable agricultural and
rural-related investment activity and provide a wide range of banking
services. Caja's urban network will serve mainly the same target market and
range of activities and contribute to the transfer of financial resources to
the rural areas. The expansion of Caja's present lending activities 1i urban
areas or further expansion into other areas of banking and/or financing will
be contemplated only after the restructuring and rationalization plan has been
successfully completed, and will be subject to the same performance criteria
that would be applied by commercial banks.
10.         Lending Policies.  Caja's interest rates, whether from their own
resources or from available rediscounting facilities, will be linked and
eventually be set at commercial rates, i.e., DTF plus a spread adequate to
cover intermediation costs, raturity, risk, and a normal profit. Caja will
provide short, medium and long credit, as required by the financing needs of



- 73 -
MIULX 2
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 17
each investment. Credit evaluation will be based on the investment's
financial viability and the cash flow prospects of the enterprise and/or
investment, supplemented by appropriate collateral.
11.         Sources of Funds.  Caja will predominantly rely on market resource
mobilization in raral and urban markets, including inter alia deposit and
saving accounts, and term deposits. It will also have access to rediscounts
through FINAGRO and the Banco de la Republica.
12.         Financial Performance Criteria.  Caja's general financial
objective will be to generate sufficient earnings from its banking and
financial operations to cover its operating and financial costs, including
provision for bad debts, and provide an adequate rate of return on its assets.
The Corporate Plan
13.         In order to achieve its objectives and stated policies, Caja has
submitted, and the Government has approved, a Corporate Plan, which has four
main components: (i) Financial Restructu:ing; (ii) Organizational
rationalization; (iii) Management and Supervision; and (iv) Operational
Strengthening.
Financial Restructurins of Cala
14.         On November 8, 1992, the Congress of Colombia approved Law 17
ordering the transfer of an amount up to Col$56,000 million to Caja Agraria,
from the supplementary 1992 Budget; by December 30, 1992, the Government
issued Decree Nos. 2095 and 2189 transfering this amount of Col$56,000 million
to Caja Agraria, of which Col$24,000 million in cashi, and Col$32,000 million
in Bonds. This first payment was part of the recapitalization of Caja
Agraria, which would total Col$140,000 million over a three-year period under
the restructuring of this institution, as confirmed by a letter dated November
18, 1992, from the Ninister of Finance to the Bank.   The 1993 Budget includes
aditional transfers totalling Col$62,800 million. Disbursements by the
Government are subject to satisfactory progress in implementing the Corporate
Plan.
15.         The Government has renewed for 1993 the guarantee covering Caja's
pension plan liability (see para. 4 above), pending final resolution of this
liability; in the meantine, Caja retains responsibility for payment of
pensions as these become due during any given year, and annually provide for
accrued pensions.
16.         Caja and the Government have entered into an agreement under which
Caja would receive, from the Government Budget, an amount of Col$5,000 million
each in 1993 and 1994 as a the direct subsidy for banking and ancillary
services provided by Caja through some of its money-losing branches that the
Government has requested Caja to keep open.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment I
Page 5 of 17
17.         Caja would complete the implementation of the 1992-1993
divestiture of Caja's non-banking assets (except insurance activity) and
application of the funds to the capital structure of the institution.
Rationalization of Cala
18.         Caja Agraria is expected, by end 1994, to consolidate its banking
operations into approximatel, 650 branches and agencies, of which at least 550
would be financially profitable, with a staff of no more than 7,200 employees.
The figures include branches in locations where the Government may
transitionally wish to retain presence through Caja (see para. 16). The steps
to rationalize Caja would include:
(a)   Closing of an additional 40 branches by early 1993, beyond the 35
closed down by December 31, 1992 from a preliminary list of 150
money-losing branches concentrated predominantly in urban areas
and in rural localities where other banks are operating, and
review of an additional 90 during 1993 for possible closing;
(b)   Carry out the program of debt recovery agreed with the Government
under the FOGAFIN agreement so that by end of 1993 and 1994,
arrears will be reduced to 75Z and 901 respectively of December
1991 arrears level. Annual loan refinancings should be separately
accounted for in Caja statements;
(d)   With the agreed staff and branch retrenchment and debt recovery
programs, Caja's estimated financial results would 3how losses of
about Col$ 11,000 million in 1993 (as compared to over Col$76,000
in 1992), turning into profits of about 10,000 million in 1994
with the recapitalization detailed under "Financial
Restructuring", and over Col$37,000 million in 1995.  Performance
indicators, developed from these projections, appear on a table
attached to this Plan, and would serve as a basis for the mid-term
review of the project; and
(e)   Voluntary separation of Caja's personnel: (i) from its non-banking
activities whose assets will be divested during 1992-1993; and
(ii) and of the personnel not to be retained or reassigned from
the branches to be closed down by December 31, 1992 or to be
closed down during 1993. Financing of the compensation package
for (i) will be provided from the receipts from the sale of such
assets, and for (ii) from the recapitalization funds provided by
Government in 1992 and 1993. Appropriate arragements would be
made by October 31, 1993 for the staff to be separated during
1994.



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 17
Manazement and Sugervision
19.         The present composition of the Board of Directors of Caja,
consisting of the Minister of Agriculture (or his representative) who chairs
the Board, the Minister of Hacienda (or his representative), a representative
of the Comision Nacional de Credito Agricola and two representatives of the
President of Colombia would be retained. However, the present appointments
have been reviewed early in 1993, and presently two representatives of the
private banking/financial sector are now serving on the Board. The director
of FOGAFIN (or his representative) is now a de-facto member of the Board, with
voting rights.
20.         The new President of Caja, previously President of FINAGRO, the
Government's institution for the rediscount of agricultural credit operationst
comes with well established professional qualifications; he was also in the
past Vice-Minister of Agriculture. In the absence of performance
considerations, continuity of service by the President should be ensured, to
the extent possible, for the duration of the restructuring and rationalization
program (three to five years);
21.         Caja will establish a technical panel chaired bv the new
President, with external professional support, to review the technical
qualifications of all branch managers and propose by June 30, 1993 a program
of separation for those managers considered not to meet the necessary banking
and financial qualifications. The same panel will also propose a merit system
for the selection of replacement branch managers and to fill the approximately
416 branches (before the rationalization program) where branch manager
vacancies exist. Branch managers continuity should also be ensured, in the
absence of performance considerations.
22.         Caja will carry out, in 1993, a review of its high and medium
management salary and compensation scales and, if necessary, will adjust its
salary and benefits to provide a total compensation package competitive with
the private sector banking sector.
23.         During the implementation of Caja's restructuring and
rationalization program, Superintendencia Bancaria will be responsible for
monitoring the program and providing regularly independent reports to the
Board of Directors of Caja on the progress of the program to restore financial
profitability to Caja. In addition to the six-monthly progress report to be
sent to the World Bank by Caja, Superintendencia Bancaria will issue a six-
month eummary with the highlights of program progress, which will be sent to
the World Bank by Caja.
Operational Strengthening
24.         Caja Agraria will set-up a working group to carry out the
following tasks:



76 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 7 of 17
(a)   Review of lending policies and procedures, leading to
recommendations for revised, or new, policies and procedures;
after consideration by management, implementation of new lending
policies and procedures; task to be completed by June 30, 1993.
(b)   Develop and implement internal training and upgrade programs with
special urgency and emphasis on loan officers and their
supervisors; task to be completed by early 1993, and remain as a
continuous activity within Caja Agraria.
25.         Caja will design, develop and implement new control procedures,
management information systems and cost accounting for each branch as profit
centers; these systems should be operational by June 30, 1993.
Performance Indicators for Caia A raria
Caja has updated its financial projections, including the effects of the
improvements/changes that are expected to be carried-out by Caja Agraria in
the course of the next three years. The results of these projections are
shown below s
Revised -Projected---------
1991      1992      1993       1994
---------(in Col$ million)---------
Basic Projection?
(Implementation of Corporate Plan)
Portfolio at end of year ......    486,990  524,508   695,000    873,000
Operating results    ............    (60,594) (76,259)  (10,884)    10,041
With no changes
Portfolio at end of year ..*...   486,990   515,518   661,759    828,914
Operating results .............   (60,594)  (28,660)  (27,362)   (10,096)
From the above, it becomes obvious that the two important steps
already under implementation, elosing of money-losing branches and reduction
in personnel, were essential to return Caja Agraria to a balanced operation,
and to achieve a return on assets. But Caja, to become a viable financial



-77-                          ANNEX 2
Attachment I
Page 8 of 17
institution must increase its profit situation, and this can only be achieved
by streamlining Caja, and continue with further closing of branches, at the
rate of about 100 each year for 1993 and 1994; these steps are part of the
Corporate Plan.
These closings have been projected in the next table, showing the
movement of staff numbers, and the status of operating branches in Caja:
Caia Aararia reduction in number of Staff numbers
Existing  -       Projected ---------
1991      1992       1993       1994
Present number of staff                 10,2501l
After closing of 60 branches                       9,150
Closing of about 100 branches/year                            8,200    7,200
Caia Agraria number of operating branches
886       806       760       650k    l
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
From the above analysis, the following performance indicators will be retained
for the mid-term review :
Operating results : That Caja would have a balanced operation by December 31,
1993, and show a return on assets, in real terms, of at least 1S by December
3i, 1994.
Staff numbers : Caja's establishment would not exceed 8,200 staff by December
31, 1993 and 7,200 by December 31, 1994.
I/ Normal attrition rate is about 3Z per year
2/ Including about 100 branches to be operated with Government-funded
financing.



-78-                       ANNEX 2
Attachment I
Page 9 of 17
Number of branches t Caja's number of operating branches would fall to about
800 by end of 1992, and be reduced to about 760 and 650 respectively by end of
1993 and 1994. These numbers include the branches for which Government is
fully paying for their operation.
CAJACORPORATEPLAN
February 4, 1993



_ 79 -
PLAN CORPORATIVO 1992 - 1995             ATTACHMENT 1
CAIA AGRARIA                                                 Page 10 of 17
-Tm*r.W         PROYECCIONES ESTADOS FINANCIEROS
a  .       .                               .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Millones $)
VICEPRESIDENCIA FINANCIkRA             C A J A   A G R A R I A
CCL    93/1/25 - 12:41          9 1       9 2      9 3       9 4        9 5
A C T I V 0            893517   988893  1208462   1425198  1729314
DISPONIBLE           104,848  137,191  177,795   224,897  283,893
Caja y B Republica M/L         89, i44  120,307  156,339   198,199  25C),631
Bancos y Otros Disp M/L            187       91       107 1    124        144
Remesas en Transito            12,072   13,3VI   17,271  , 21,760   27,417
Disponibles M/E                 3,54$    3,400    4,079       4,814    5,680
INVERSIONES            58,510   92,628  132,130    83,454   71,90)5
VolLuntarias                   30,050   68,652  107,257    62,257   62,257
Titulos del Gobierno         22,242   30: 001   49,529    49 529   49,529
Con Rendimiento de Mercado   7,098   38: 6J l   5 7 '728    12: 728   12,728
InversionesObligatorias       10,617   13,.7   15,079    11,955    1,185
. Nue.T:api.t .~F.......... Fanc ReslS . 15-..,-4   ...... ......2,218    1,702  1,185    1,185
Nuevos Bonos ILT/901          1,333         0        0          0         0
Bonos FGIF/90                   698                                       D
Reservas Tec de Seg&ros       7,270   11,261   13,378    10x,770          0)
Inversiones del encaje,        17,846   10,499    9,796       9,245    8,465
Nuv.Tit de Cred de Fomento   4,566    3,652    2,433        1,519      303
Bonos Nales Ley 21/63      -  6,655    6,655    5,546       5,546    5,546
Tit. Nomin. encaje Marg      .3
Sustitutiva Fiduciaria          6,625       192    1,817      2,181    2,617
Der. de Recompra inv Neg            0         0        0          O         D
Pr-ovision de inversiones           3         3         3         3         3
CARTERA DE CREDITOS       486,990  524,508  641,204   828,487  1031037
Vigentey Venc Hasta 1 M       408,120  427,131  543,475   747,211 952151.2
Descubyiertos en Cta Cte        280    1,852    3,732       6,ol12    7.576
Tarietas de Cr-edito          3,990    4,264    5,823       7,570    9,841
Recursos Rropios            127,124  130,718  151,120   228,257  343,748
Con Rec B.Republica           5,236    4,309    3,636       4,508    5,59t:'
Finagro                     254,369  271,512  348,312   456,647  524,135
Proexpo                       6,536    4,187    4,279       5,306    6,580
Findeter-                     3,874    4,102   11,527    14,466   18,155
Fen y Otros                   2,016    4,782    9,439    11,704   14,5153
_ -Vigente M/E                   4,696    1,407    5,60:7    12,740   22,0±3
Vencida 1-3 Meses              20 544   35,273   44,250    38,329   40,450
Moneda Legal                 20,372   35,262   44,237    38,329   40,450
Moneda Extranjrea               172        11        14         0         0
Vencida 3-6 Meses              22,763   15,747   18,324    15,606   13,949
Moneda Legal                 22,591   15,736   18,310    15,590:^  13,93c0
Moneda ExtranJera               172        11       14         16        19
Vencida Mas 6 Meses            78,402  105,608   88,900    72,233   65,256
Moneda Legal                 78,2:32  105,037   88,215    71,425   6e,302
Moneda Extranjera               170       571      685        609    * 954
Provision de Cartera           42,839   59,^52   53,745    44,891   40,768
Q
DEUDORES POR ACEPTAC 'ONES        82         0        0          0         0
6
CUENTAS POR COBRAR       105,111   93,910  101,639   142,039  180,124
Intereses y Comisiones         80,707   76,952   95,933   129,526  162,614
Venta Bienes - Comercial          304       165                             0
Pagos Cta Clientes -Seguros    3,465    3,536    5,432        6,577    8,381
Pagos Cta Clientes - Otros      2,684    3,694    3,291       3 ,818    4,429
Cuotas Partes Pensionales       2,384    2,651    2,475       3,:094    3,:094
Deudores Gobierno Nacional    21,030   19,528          0          0         0
* Otras operaciones en M/L        12,389   12,715   11,.328    13,141   15,243
operaciones en M/E      1,~~~429    1,559    1,406   2,2708    2,605
peray.Ctoas 5Porn. CMobrar (-)  19,281   26,891   18,227    16,325   16,243
BIENES REALIZ Y REC EN PAGO   15, 448    9 ,945    7,012      1,563    1,563
Venta de Bienes                14,456    8,392    5,449           0         0
Recibidos en Pago               1,142    1,735    1,735       1,735    1,735
Prov Bienes Realiz (-)             150      172       172       172       172



- 80 -
C-*.     AGRARIA   PLAN CORPORATIVO 1992 - 1995           ATTACHMNT 1
PROTECCIONES ESTADOS FINANCIEROS    I
*.    * !  .(Millones $)
VICEPRESIDENCIA FINANCIERA            C A J A. -A   R A R I A
CCL    93/1/25 - 12t41          9 1      9 2      9 3       9 4       9 5
0
PROPIEDADES Y EQUIPOS       16,539   19,390 - 17,508    13,217   12,9865
Activo FiJo .                  23,282   29,122   28,151    26,060   27,98e
Twrrenos,constru y edificios   5,135    6,492    6,492       6,492    6,492
Vehiculos                         729    . 729      729        729      729
Aviones                         2,50   l,*9          0          0        0
Musbles y Equipo                9,519   12,195   13,952    15,348   16,682
Modernizacion y comput' .on   3,002    3,741    4,241        3,491    3,884
Area Comercial                  2,388    2,736    2,734          0        0
Depreciacion                    6,743    9,732   10,644    12,843   15,122
OTROS ACTIvOS         105,989  111,320  131,175   131,540  147,927
Inversione4 Permanentes M/L    5,113    8,617   40,557    40,557   40,557
*   Sucursales y Agenclas           6,904    3,057    2,446      1,957    1,565
Pagos Anticipados               1,404    1,689    1,812    .2,174    2,609
Pagos Anticipades - B.M.        2,710    2,372    2,176      1,778    4,778
Cargos Difer%idos               2,200    3,400    5,386      6,247    7,247
Cargo Diferido - plan do ret  29,732   24,601   14,602       4,110    4,110
Valoriz Acti4vos Fijos         22 569.  24,698   28,882    32,926   37,535
Valoriz Activos Comerciales   12,733   13,739.        0          0        0
Valoriz Inversiones             2,329    2,329    2,.329     2,329    2,329
Valoriz Otros                     685      658      658        658      658
-Credito A Empleados            18,296   16,241   19,870    24,043   29,092
Otras operaciones en M/L        2 846    8,542   10,737    12,455   14,447
operaciones en M/E               1491)   2,716    3,259      3,846    4,538
Provision Otros Activ3s C-)    1,042    1,539    1,539       1,539    1,539
I
I~~~~ 
0~~~~~~~~~



- 31 -
-                  ~~~~~~~ATTACHMENT I
PLAN CORPORATIVO 1992 - 1995            Page 12 of 17
PROYECCIONES ESTADOS FINANCIEROS
CAIA AGRARIA                                                 (Millones $)
VICEPRESIDENCIA FINANCIERA             C A J A   A ( R A R I A
CCL    93/1/25 - 12:41          9 1       9 2      9 3       9 4       9 5
PASIVO Y PATR!MONIO        693517   980893  1209462   1425196  1729314
DEPOSITOS Y EXIGIBILIDADES  414,374  501,341  646,926   796,051  979,892
Cuenta Corriente              116,161  177,000  228,225   2e7,564  362,330
Oficiales                   58,176  106,678  140,138   176,574  222,483
Particulares                 57,985   68,322   88,087   110,989  139,847
Cert de Dep A Termino          77,386   69,489   74,553    99,464  107,357
Depositos de Ahorro           184,040  220,000  302,337   368,852  449,999
Ordinarios                  176,153  210,848  288,219   351,627  428,985
A Termino                     7,887    9,152   14,118    17,224  *21,014
Serv Bancarios de Recaudo       3,194    3,819    4,660       5,592    6,71)
Fondos de Fideicomiso           5,427    3,371         0          0        0
Subsidio Familiar               1,170       613      748        898    1,077
-Otras Operaciones en M/L        26,996   27,049   36,402    43,683   52,419
Operaciones en M/E                                                         ,3
0
FONDOS INTERS COAPR                  9,450                             0
Fondos interb y Repos Pesivo              9,450                             0
Comp de Recompra inv Neg                                                   0
0
ACEPTACIONES (BANC) EN CIRC.       82         0        0          0        0
Moneda Leaal                       82         0        0          0        0
Moneda Ex ranjera                   O.        0        0          0        0
0}
CRED DE BANCOS Y 0 FINANC   237,348  258,430  313,347   355,913  408,066
Banco de La Republica         113,571   77,225   60,341    47,040   33,957
Ordinarios                    3,500         0        0          0        0
Redescuentos                  5,744    5,684    ',198       3,965    4,917
F.F.Ap.                     104,328   71,541   57,144    43,075   29,040
Finagro                       104,128  160,292  226,218   271,462  325,754
Proe:xpo                        5,229    5,264    4,176       5,179    6,422
Findeter                        3,641    2,650    9,399    11,F96   14,804
Feny Otros                      1,772    5,786    2,614       3,241    4,019
k E:terior Vigentes             4,606    2,433    6,909    13,435   19,350
Banco Mundial                   4,401    4,778    3,690       3,761    3,761
0
CUENTAS POR PAGAR         27,965   28,709   25,541    36,505   43,529
Intereses y Comisiones         17,203   15,543   12,442    20,707   23,869
Reserva de Siniestros           1,664    4,991    7,667       9,283   11,830
Proveedores                       703    1,247      8s1       1,057    1,285
Otras Operaciones en M/L        7,818    6,770    4,360       5,232    6,279
operacion3s en M/E                577       159      191        225      266
BONOS AGRARIOS NACIONALES      42,549   28,397   14,183           0        0
OTROS PASIVOS          146,357  161,799  165,848   176,780  189,665
Obligaciones Labonales         22,888   21,460   20,309    24,371   29,245
Laborales - Pensiones         102 887  110,269  110 269   110 269  110,269
Sucursales-y Agencias          17,306    2,767    2,213       1,771    1,417
Ingresos Anticmpados            1,626    4,042    5,142       7,070    9,009
Otros Operaciones en M/L        2 064   15,009   18,011    21,613   25,935
Ooeraciones en M/E                R414)   8,253    9,904    11,687   13,790
0
PAS ESTIMADOS Y PROVISIONES   27,144   28 198   26 097    29 ,42   36,045
Impuestos                       1,775      Z928)  (1,464)   (1,765)  (1,400)
Sanciones Superbancaria        11,342   11,138    6,126       2,450    1,066
Reservas Tecnicas de Seguros  11,012   12,512   14,864    20,911   26,915
Provision Agricola                                                         0
Otras Openracones M/L                     5 5,476    6,572    7,886    9,463
0
PAI'RIMONIO           (2,300) (27,431)  16,520  1 30,467   72,117
Capital Gobierno               63,770   95,587  152,027  1152,027  152,027
*  Reservas                         235       239      239  I    239       239
Suneravit                      38,263   41,614   31,731    35,639   40,085
YalorizadiofiGs              38,317   41,625   31 87)0     35t913   40 523
AjuiSte de Cambics              (54)      (12)    Ul3e) 1    276)    14S7)
Res de Ejerc Anteriores       (74,837)(104,569)(156,593) (167,477)(157 436)
Resultados del EJercicio      (29,732) .52,.024) (1I0,884) ' 10 041   37,202
CAPITAL GARANTIA              108,209  149;598  143,206   143 206  143,206
PATRIMONIO Y CAPITAL GARANTI 105,909  122,167  159,726  .173,673  215,323



- 82 ^
PLAN CORPORATIVO 1992 - 1995           ATTACHMENT 1
CAJA AGRARIA      PROYECCIONES ESTADOS FINANCIEROS          Page 13 of 17
w w~~.Q                                                          .....  (MiLlones $)
VICEFRESIDENCIA FINANC'ERA             C A J A   A 6 R A R I A
CCL    93/1/25 - 12:41           9 1.     9 2       9 3       9 4       9 5
PFERDIDAS Y GANANCIAS
INGRESOS FINANCIEROS      253,912  223,135  267,944   321,734  401,386
Intereses Y Des Amortizado   161,874  159,485  188,591   241,423  299,402
Inversiones                  14,473    1,977    4,50C)0    9,002    4,7.34
Cartera De Creditos          143,778  154,586  177,808   217,784  279,251
Otros Intereses                3,623    2,922    6,283    14,637   15,423
Comiioned L- a                 8,061    8,734   12,070    15,180  .19,58S
Moneda L0gl                    7,877        8,536   11,968    14,959-  19,19C)
YMoneda E7 7raniera                0         8      102        221      399
Ventas Consignacion                       190.                            Ci
Venta De Mercancias             48,014   14,112    6,517       4,201    4,789
Mer-cancias Propias          42,673   11,528    6,517        4,201    4,789
Semillas                                2,594
Primas de Seguros               20,343   23,579   37,455    49,682   63 524
Prom- Vida -Educativo          2,423    2,103    2,90        3,967 
Medico                  1,494    1,265    1,654       2,286    2,856
Otros Promocionados       146       191      SO0        709       921
Caut- Vida Credito             5,882    6,121    8,446      9,113   11,843
Oblig Accid Transito.  7,585   15,780   19,000    2 ,935   35l:,01o5
Automotores               565       669    1,000      1,347    1,616
Otros Cautivos0         2,248    2,45C:  3,955        5,326    6,391
Ingr-esos De Reaseguros   *     1,915    3,466    2,55        5,263    6,53E:
Comisiones Cesion             3,249       55S       862        910    1,134
Reembolso Siniestros           7,666    2,911    4,696      4,352    5,4CI4
Otros Ingresos Operacionales   4,704    3,75C)  17,752         5,984    7,54c
EGRESOS FINANCIEROS       166,8805  1._,829  159;529   184,578  219,57-.
Intereses                      1CI1,552  118,707  122,1I0 9   139,465  164,551
Depositas y Exigibilidades  42,379   58,082   64,70.3    70,251   85,376
Fondos interba. y Repos          272      259         U          O
Cred de Scos 4 0 Financ.    57,486   57,961   56,626    69,002   79,176:
.Eonos Ley 90/ B                1,416    2,4405      786        213        C
Comisiones                         346      50t0      382        451      59._
Costo De Venta Bienes Realiz  44,3((0  12,363    5,725         3,$91    4,55C:
Gastos De Seguros               20 6C:6   21,259   31,313    40,671   49,881
Primas Cedidas                 3,790    3,426   lo,4.28     9,427   11,696
Incremento de Las Reservas   6,366    6,395    4,072        6,047    6,004
Siniestros Pagados             9,618   10,964   16,812    24,240j  30,991
Ga%ttos de Promocion             832      474         a        957    1,191
MARFGEN FINANCIERO        87,108   70,306  108,415   137,156  181,810
GASTOS ADMINISTRATIVOS          96,545  115,586  125,926   129,425  149,641
Personal sin pensiones       7,668   69,503   77,501         ,4553      t4
- Bancaria                   65,995   66,946   74,320    73,486   85,244
- Comercial                    5,361    1,690)   1,569           0        O
- Seguros                      1,312      867    1,612      1,967    2,40(;
Pagos de Pensiones                 0   20,541  N2,936    25,542   3C0,1139
Depreciacion                   1,810    2,537    2,354      2,200    2,279
Amortizacion Consultoria           0      795    1,912         743      8f,
Otros Administrativos        22,067   22,211l  23,223    25,487   28,702
- 8ancaria                    19,371   19,54B   21,919    24,215   27,311
- Comercial                   2,581    2, 087       842       652       652
- Se qtros                       115      576       462        621      739
MARGEN OPERACIONAL        (9,437) (45,279) (17,511)    7,730   32,169
ING NO OPERAC-VT.A DE ACTIVOS      183       71                    0        "
OTROS ING NO OPERACIONALES       4,142    8,435   18,4Q3    10,231    7,633
AMORTLZACION PLAN DE RETIRO 0     0   1Ct,801    9,999    1t),492
EGRESOS NO OPERACIONALES        14,931    5,80C1      990     2,033    2,439
UTILIDAD SIN PROVISIONES   (20,043) (53,376) (10,007)    5,437   37,363
Provisiones                        0   42,947   28,600      8,443    5,629
Recuperaciones                     0   20, 063   28 176    13,200    5 834
Provisiones Netas               22,197   22,883      (424)   (4,756)    (2015
Pensiones De Jubilacion         17,421             0         0              C.O
UTILTDAD ANTES DE INrPUESTOS  (59,661) (76,259) (10:,431)   10,193   37,566
PROVISION IMPORRENTA           934        0       453        152      366
AJUSTES POR INFLACION                24,237                             C
UTILIDAD (PERDIDA)        (60,594) (52,022) (10,884)   1 0,041   37,20t



- 83 -
Financial Projections            ATTACHMENT I
(Without Change).               Page 14 of 17
Balance Sheet - Assets
(in Col $ Million)
VICEPRESIDENCIA FINANCtERA                      C A J A   A 6 R A R : A
ma    92/4/24 - 23:31           90        9 1      9 2       9 3       9 4
z============ === = = = =-_ _ = = ========   = = = = = = =  = = = = = =  =
A C T I V 0          81c),0s5:.  S93517   89e±f73  110)6895   1364596
DISPONIBLE           65,224  1044,648  110,668  154,651   212,965
Caja y }Republica M/L          52,0t34    9, 044   94 ,69  133,464   184,501
Bancos y Otros Disp M/L           269       187       219       -51       2S3
Remesas en Transito            10, 17   12,072   11,502   16,0S3    22,427
Disponibles M/E                 2,715    3,546    4,077    4,693        5,774
INVERSIONES           42,630   58,51)   59,139   54,327    51,677
VolLuntarias                   26, :(a   30,050   39,987  *37,516    3-%5,045
Titulas del Gobierno         22,24.3   22,2 4 2 37-,937   35 , 5 16    33, 0 45
Ctn kendimiento de Mercado  3,765    7,e808    2, 000    2,002 2(,0n
Inversiones Obligatorias        5,404   10,617    6,749    6,9S7        7,329
Nue.T Capit. Financ Res 15  3,373    1,:316    2,216    1,702          1,1E5
Nuevos Bonos ICT/90           1,333    1,333    1,3:33    1,333       1,333
Bonos FGIF/90                   696       698
Reservas Tec de Sequros                   ,270    3,1 97    3, 933    4, 11
Inversiones del encaje         10!,729   1.,846   12,406    9,847       9  0
Nuv.Tit de Cred de Famento  4,876    4,566    3,652    2,4.3.3        1 1 9
Bonos Nales Ley 21/63        . 5,853    6,655    6,655    5,546       5,54L
Tit. Nomin. encaje Marg
Sustitutiva Fiduciaria                    6,62?5   In .,.99    1,668 6,
Der. de Recompra inv Neg          500         ti                  0
Provision de inversiones            11        33                  3
CARTERAS DE CREDITOS      5001s:,956  486,99C0  515,518  661,717   622,914
Vigente y Venc Hasta 1 M    443,129  406, I120  460,512  607,414   782,67,0
escubiertos en Cta Cte         519       28C0    1 ,8e03   . ',52    . ,!6
Tarjetas de Credito           3,644    3,990:'   4,866    5,744       6,664
Recursos Propios            203,5C1)  129,015  147,146  245,417   35 ,737
Con Rec B.Republica          10,744    5, 276    6,59:7    6, o)4 F7  9,
Finagro                     204,135  254,369  276,663  314,601,'        rl, I
Proe>.po                      4,214    4,645    5,8tJ      7,5        e.,t,0
Findeter                      2,107t:    3,874    4,84     5,S9       6,
Fen y Otros                   5,778    2,016   2,52.       . 3,0497   3,6-'7
Vigente MIlE                  6,487    4,696    8,        1';,  143    "4 C
Vencida 1-3 Meses              20),479   2Q ,544   17,674    1,697    2'u4
Moneda Legal  -. 22_4Q35.  20,372   17,476   21,$5C9    20, 141
*X Med  E;trwa';esra4  -3                 172      198 63:,             2":7
Vencida 3-6 Meses              13,624   2276.3  13,744   15 s"o    14 15}
Moneda Legal                 13,624   22,591   13,546   14,          1':,8
Mone.da Ex<traniera               0)      172      1 9a SmM L3*         2
Vencida Mas 6 Meses            45,9;93   78, 402   5 r 5 5    4 1CO 2:)    36,50e
Moneda Legal                 45,966   78,232   57,36o   45,796    -3
moneda Extranjera                27       17c      195      2?,
Provision de Car-tera          22,268   42,839   3.7,96c   29,4(03    24 E3
DEUDORES POR ACEPTACIONES    3,830t         i; IC: I           1-1       146
CUENTAS POR COERAR        97,231  t°5, 11 1   91,638  119,682   151,520
Intereses y Comisiones         65,9C06   80), 707   71,837   93,995   119,692
Venta Bienes - Comercial        2,043       304
Fpagos Cta Clientes -Se uros   1,72F    3,465    2,765   . 3424         4,166
Pagas Cta Clientes - Otros    1, 883    2,664    3,156    --3 , 6C1 1   4, 0 7°3
CUOtaS Partes Pensionales       2,102    2,384    3,5t04    4,11        5,216
Deudores Gobierno Nacional   22,532   21,031   19,528   12,02          1J,524
Otras opeeaciones en M/L        9,73(   12,389   14,569   16,667    16,601
ap,Praciones en M/E             4,323    1,429    1,643  ¢ 1,972        2, 327
P_-ov. Ctas Par C.br    -9,261   25,366 .2,323    19,7-1
I...*



- 84 _
- Financial Prolections         -      ATTACHMMNT 1
.   .      .               (Without Change)                 Va&eI 15 of 17
Balance Sheet - Assets (cont'd)
(in Col $ Million)
"oICEPRESIDENCIA FINANCIERA A                  C A J A   A 8 R A R I A
ma    92/4/24 - 23:31           9 0      9 1      .9 2      9 3       9 4
BIENES REALIZ Y REC EN PAGO  70,499   15,448         992      992        992
Venta de Bienes                29,816   14,456                  0          0
Recibidos en Pago                 940    1,142    1,142    1,142       1,142
Pr4v Bienes Rea1iz C-) -          257      150       150       154       15t
PROPIEDADES Y EQUIPOS       (4,834) .16,539;  20,454 . 18,485    17,514
Activo.EUo~~~~~.             23,282~~   28 617   28,414 .31,085
TerF-enos,comstruy edificios 17,387    5,135    5,135    5,135         5,135is
Vehiculos                                  729       729      729.       72
Aviones                                  2,509    2,509         0          t:
Muebles y Equipo                         9,519   10,566   11,517    12,438
Modernizacion y computacion              3,002    9,412   11,03.3    12,733
Area Comercial                        . 2,3e8        2665       0          .
Depreciacion               .   4,834    6,743    8,163    9,929    13,571
OTROS ACTIVOS          74,S13  105,989   93,263   96,838  .100,848
Inversiones Permanentes M/L       .20    5,113    5,113    5,113       5,113
Sucursales y Agencias         1I0:j245    6,904    4,901    6,853      9,557
Pagos Anticipados               1,255    1,404      971       857        663
Pagos Anticipados - B.M.        2,267    2,710    2,649    2,431       1,986
Cargos Diferidos                3,071    2,2100    2,588    2,96)      3,339
Cargo Diferido - plan de retiro         29i732   23,786   17,839    11,893
Valoriz Activos Fijos          25,527   22,569   26,1,80   29,322      ,  4
Valariz Activos Comerciales             12,7-33        0        0.    .   0
Valoriz lnversiones             2,329    2,329    2,329    2,329       2,329
Valoriz Otros                     709      685       635      685        685
Credito A Empleados            14,717   18,296   22,321   26,339    30,553
Otras operaciones en M/L        9,155    2 ,846    3 ,347    3 829     4,319
-operaciones en M/E       .      6,008     (491)    (565)    (678)       (80o)
Provision Otros Activos C-)       789    1,042    1,042      1,0C)42   1,042



- 85 -
Financial ProJections              ATTACHMENI I
(Without Changes) -               Page 16 of .17
Balance Sheet - Liabilities.
(in Col $ Million)
VICEPRESIDENCIA FINANCIrERA                    C A J A   A G R A R I A
ma    92/4/24 - 23:31          9 0       9 1      9 2.    9 3         9 4
PASIVO T  PATRIMONIO     827,436   893517   891773  1106895   1364596
DEPOSITOS Y EXIGIBILIDADES 356,786  4i4,374  461,398  607,194:  799,218
Cuenta Corriente              115,768  116,161  159,806  223,458   311,595
Oficiales                   65,374   58,176   80,035  111,913   156,054
Particulares                50,394   57,985   79,772  111,545   155,541
Cert.de Dep A Termino         51,149   77,,366   39,952   35,263    27,265
Depositos de Ahorro           149,360  184,040  244,468  330,581   440,119
-frdinarios                  146,100., 176,153  235,591  312,941   412,856
Ai T.rminO                   3,260    7,887    8,878   17,641    27,263
Serv Bancarios de Recaudo      6,356    3,194    4,025    4,790        5,748.
FOndOS de Fideicomiso          10,306    5,427    1,357         0          0
*Subsidio Familiar                        1,170    1,427;   1,684       1,953
Otras OperaciOnes en M/L       10,009   26,996   10,362   11,398.   12,538
Operaciones en M/E             13,8.38
FONDOS INTERS COMPR          420
Fondos interb y RQO5s Pasivo    420
Comp de Recompra  nv Neg
ACEPTACIONES (BANC) EN CIRC   3e,830        82       101      121        146
Moneda Legan                   3,830        82       101      121        146
Moneda ExtranJera                   0        0         0        0          0
CRED DE BANCCS Y 0 FINANC  189,477  237,348  249,277  275,264   3068,34
Banco  de La Republica       171,818  113,571  92,110   76,837    61,537
andinarios                   3,500    3,500.        0         0          O
Redescuentos                 6,155    5,744    7,237    e,629    10,595
F.F.Ap.                    162,163  104,328   84,873   68,008    510,943
Finagro                                104,128  124,953  155,532   180,749
Proex po                       5 642    5,229    6, 56    7,908        9,411
Findeter               .        2,822:  3,641    4,5 2.  5,507         6,554
Fen YeOteO5         .           7,149    1,772   282 6    2,681        3,190
B Exerior VigenteS                  O    4,606    8,16    15,019    24,655
BanCO Mundial                  2,046    4,401   10,751   11',779    13,237
CUENTAS POR PAG6-R       26,610   27,965   26,719   29,189    31,856
Intereses y Comsisbne.        12,828   17,203   12,849   13,398    13,925
Reserva de Siniestros          .2,281    1,664    3,903    4,832       5, es3
Proveedores                    4,140       703.    703        703        703
Otras OpgraciOnes en M/L       6,991    7,818    8,599    9,459    10,405
Operaciones en M/E                370      577      664       797        940
BONOS AGRARICS NACIONALES    44,827   42,549   2S,366   14,183             0
OTROS PASIVOS         139,068  146,357  126,291  160,273   198,710
Obligaciones Laborales         10,902   22,888   18,636   21,991    25,509
Labor-ales - Pensiones         90,553  102,867 K 99,793  128,217   160,387
Sucursales y Agencias           1.,328   17,306    1,710 . 2,391       3,334
Ingresos Anticipados           3,501    1,626    4,357    5,747       7,406
Otros Operaciones on M/L      27,686    2 064    2 270    2 497        2 747
OperaciOneS en  2/E            5,099       414)    (476)    1571)       (674)
PAS ESTIMADOS Y PROVISrONES  17,648   27,144   13,145  *15,302    16,713
Impuestos                      2,105    1,775       841       841.~   841
Sanciones Superbancaria   .  1,939   11,342    1,134    1,134 .            0
Reservas TecnicaS de Seguros  4,324   11,012    7,993 .  9,832.   12,028
Provision Agricola             6,166
Otras Operaciones M/L          3,114    2,888    3,177    3,494S.  3,e44
PATRIMONIO            48770   (2,300) (13,524)   5,370 -   9;619
Capital Gobierno              63,761   63,770   89,590  131,572.  141,762
Reservas                          196      235      235       235        235
SuPeravit                     28,787 . 38,263   29,880   34,154    38,310
Valorizaciones              28,597   38,317   29,195   32,336    35,269
Ajuste de CambiOs              190       (54)     685    1,818      3,041
Res de Ejerc AnterioreS        -7462  (74,837)(1O4,569)(133,229) (160 592)
ResultadOs del EjercicLo      -36512  (29 732) (28,660) (27,362)  (10,096)
CAPITAL-GARANTI         --IA108,209  135,386  166,516   166,516
PATRIMONIO Y CAPITAL GARANTIA          105,909  121,B62- 171,886   176,135



- 86 -
Financial Projections             ATTACHMENT 1  .
(Without Changes)               Page 17 of 17
Profit & Lcss Account
(in Col $ Million)
VICEPRESIDENCIA FINANCIERA                     C A J A   A G R A R IA
ma    92/4/24 - 23:31          9 0       9 1      9 2       9 3       9 4
=========^===========-=== = ====================S==
PERDIDAS Y GANANCIAS                              t
INGRESOS FINANCIEROS    235,661  2Z3,912. 201,825  214,806   275,713.
Intereses Y Des Amortizado  141,795  161,874  146,856  166,230:  216,417
Inversiones                  4,743   14,473    6,981    6,426       6,048
Cartera De Creditos        133,1100  143,778  135 113  156,391   204,290
Otros Intereses              3,952    3,623    4,761    5,413  * .6,079
ComisionedsL                 9,70'6   8,061    9,264   12,060    16,137
Moneda Lega'     .           7,801    7,877 .  9,117   11,791   .15,680
Moneda Extraniera                          0      147       270        456
Ventas Consi.nacion          1,905
Yenta De Mercaiicias          63,580   46,014   17,631          0          0
Mercancias Propias          60,005  *42,873   15,100          0          0
Semillas   -                 3,575
Primas de  egturos             13,775   20,343   21,556   26,130    32, 107
Prom- Vida -Educativo        2,790    2,423    2,967    3,347       4,00o7
Medi -o                1,395    1,494    1,722    2,056       2,400
Otros Promocionados      708       146      173      205        237
Caut- Vida Cr-edito          5,S13    5,882    5,965    7,364       9,67
Oblig Accid Transito   - 587    7,585    6,892    8,575    IC,43w
Automotores       ..    857       565       796      951      1,110
Otros Cautivos         1,;25    2,246    3,041    3,632       4,739
Inaresos De Reaseguros         2,-S17   10,915    3,339    3,996      4,9 5U
Comisiones Cesion              435    3,249       577       692       85
Reembolso Siniestros         2,332    7,666   2,762    3, 304       4,o65
Otros Ingresos Operacionales  3,988    4,704    3,173    4,390}    6,132
EGRESOS FINANCIEROS      144,2'3  166,805  123,431  117,539   132, Oe2
Intereses                     78,144  101,552   I2,124   94,506   103,651
Depositos y Evigibilidades 33,235   42,379   35,144   41,357    50,260
Fondos interba. y Repos      1,322       272              .  0           0)
Cred de Scos y 0 Financ.   41,787: 57,486   55,633   52,369    53,358
Bonos Ley 90/48              1,799    1,416    1,347        780       213
Comisiones                        149      346      277       370        50.);
costo De Venta Bienes Realiz 53 ,75*  44,3500  16,754           0          o
Gastos De Securos              12,865   20 ,606   14,276   22,663    27.725.
Primas Cedidas               3,278    3,790    5,952    7,124       6,758
*   Incremeto-..de Las Reservas ... 2 03.1,-  6,366   (3,019)   138 1,63  2,196
Sin xstros Pagadds           6,727    9,618   10,675   12,929    15,857
Gastos de Promocion            829       8.32     669       771       914
MARGEN'FINANCIERO:       91,428   87,108   78,394   97,267   143,631
GASTOS ADMINIS-RATIVOS        64,036   96,545  101,431  114,762   136,610
Per-sonal sin aensiones     57,600   72,668   64,311   72,595    69,028
- Bancaria                  53,257   65,995   60 ,900')   71,862    68,176
- Comercial                  3,659    5,361    2,777          0         Q
- Seguros                      684    1,312       634       733       852
Pagos de Pensiones           5,0(2         0   12,500   15,375    16,604
Depreciacion                 1,395    1,610    2,429    3,2C'8      3,641
Amortizacion Consultoria                   0      452       699       830:
Otros Administrativos       19,990   22,067   21,739   22,905    26,506
- Sancaria                  17,231   19,371   20,516   22,653    26,215
- Comerci41                  2,629    2,581       995         0          0
- Se uros                       130      115      228       252       291..,
M2RGEN OPERACIONAL        7,391   (9,437) (23,037) (17,515)    5,021
ING NO OPERAC-VTA DE ACTIVOS               163   IC:;, ooo   14,000    12,t1o
OTROS ING NO OPERACIONALES    4,229    4,142    4,390   5,242         6,119
AMORTIZACION PLAN DE RETIRO                  0 . .5,946    5,946       5,946 ^
EGRESOS NO OPERACIONALES       6,647   14,931    1,947    2,326       2, 726:
UTILIDAD SIN PROVISIONES    4,973  (2t0,043) (16,541)  (6,545)   14,467
Provisiones                                0   3 ,427   22,6 20    30 427
Recuperacianes                             0   15,214  . 3     ,427    38 .134
Provisiones Netas             26,754   2,197   15, 213   (7,607)   (r,6:7)
Pensi ones De Jubilacion      29,255   17,421   (3,094)  28,424    32,170
UTILIDAD ANTES DE IMPUESTOS (51,035) (59,661) (26,660) (27,362)  (10,096)
PROvISION IMPORRENTA       1,57        934        0         V         0
UTILIDAD (PERDIDA)      (52,610) (60,594) (26,660) (27,362)  (10,096)



-87 -                      NRX 3
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
Aericultural Credit Policy Framework
1.    As stated in the Financial Policy Framework (FPF), the Government's
program of structural reforms is intended to lead to a financial sector
characterized by greater competition, the capacity of mobilizing all of the
domestic and external resources needed to finance investment, and a wide
variety of financial instruments. As a fully competitive environment sets in,
prices in the sector will be fully market determined, with few exceptions.
These exceptions relate mainly to: small farmers, housing for the poor, and
dealing with unforeseen eventualities such as natural disasters.
2.    Within this framework, the Government has recently introduced reforms in
the agricultural credit sector intended to reduce market segmentation and
interest rate distortions. The government continues to fine tune these
policies, so that in the medium term credit in the sector can be free of
distortions, with prices mainly market determined, a broad participation of
first-tier institutions, and timely availability of financial resources to all
economic agents in rural areas. The issues currently under review are:
(a) role of FINAGRO and sources of funds; (b) mechanism for pricing FINAGRO's
rediscount funds; (c) the volume and prica of B bonds; and (d) the volume and
remuneration of A bonds.
Role of FINAGRO and sources of funds
3.    As stated in the FPF, it is the government's policy to maintain at most
three rediscounting facilities in Colombia. FINAGRO is one of these, and is
specialized in rediscounting funds for agricultural activities. It will shift
its emphasis to financing medium and long-term projects, at market rates to
permit an adequate supply of funds for investment in the agricultural sector.
To avoid crowding out private financial institutions, its main source of
finance will be the external markets, mainly multilateral and bilateral
institutions. Through the end of 1993, FIIAGRO will borrow from the domestic
market only to the extend necessary to meet cash-flow requirements.  Prom 1994
on, this mobilization from the domestic financial markets (other than through
forced investments), when and if needed, would be limited to the equivalent of
102 of FINAGRO's total liabilities, excluding its capital.
Mechanism for Pricina FINAGRO Rediscounting Funds
4.    FINAGRO's rediscounting rates will follow the pricing mechanism adopted
by the Banco de la Republica, i.e. commercial market reference rates such as
DTF. These rates would provide a spread adequate to cover the cost of
resources, intermediating costs and foreign exchange risk. When appropriate,
it would reflect possible excess demand for credit in the market. In such a
case, the applicable rediscount rate would be determined in periodic
consultations with the Ministry of Finance and would reflect the mechanism set
by the'Banco de la Republica.



-88-                       ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
Volume of B Bonds and Interest Rate Ceiling
5.    Under current policy, financial institutions are required to subscribe B
bonds, or lend directly to agriculture, for 5% of their portfolio. The B
bonds are ordered by Law. The purpose of the Law was to increase the
availability of funds for FINAGRO to lend to medium and large farmers. In
order to increase the direct participation of first-tier financial
institutions)the government has allowed the substitution of this requirement
for loans to the sector at the same rates of FINAGRO, DTF+6. This lending
rate implies that the government has accelerated the original schedule for
bringing direct lending rates to their market equivalents. This strategy has
been successful in encouraging direct lending to the sector by financial
institutions. B bonds currently yield DTF-2; when interest rates to the final
borrowers are fully liberalized, expected early in 1994, the remuneration
would be set at DTF, or based on a mechanism equivalent to market rates.
In the medium term as interest rates to the final borrowers are freed, the
government foresees a greater direct participation of first-tier financial
institutions to lending to the sector. Finally, the government will review at
the end of 1994 the requirement to invest in B bonds in the light of studies
conducted to evaluate the performance of commercial banks in the agricultural
credit sector, with the objective to reduce, and eventually, as the banks
increase their lending to agriculture, to phase out the volume of forced
investments in B bonds.
Volume and Remuneration of A Bonds
6.    At present, banks and other financial institutions are required to
subscribe A bonds (or to lend for agricultural credit) an amount equivalent to
2Z of their deposits (net of reserves). The amount thus raised would be
equivalent to around US$ 140 millions in 1992. The following are the
characteristics of A bonds: (a) the remuneration is DTF-6; (b) the
intermediating margin is 2 percentage points; and (c) the final lending rate
to small farmers is DTF-2. This arrangement is transitory and its main
purpose has been to guarantee a smooth transition in lending to small producer
in the agricultural sector.
7.    For the medium term the Government has issued Resolution 77 of 1990.
The remuneration on A bonds, the rediscount and the final interest rates are
increased according to the following schedule:
Remuneration       Rediscount         Lending     Martin to FIa
1993    DTP-4              DTF-2              DTF+2            4
1994    DTF-2              DTP                DTF+6            6
This schedule will overtime encourage the direct participation of first-tier
financial institutions, and it will benefit Caja Agraria, the main lender to



-89 -
Page - of 3
small fauers, as the Intermediating margin Increases* As the cost of funds
to small darmero increae.the govar mt may continue to extend the current
subsidies, In wich cae It will fine them through the fiscal budget. Over
the medium tern the levl of A bonds will be reexamined jointly with that of B
bonds and within the frramork of ewsting legislation.
Washington D.C.
December 7, 1992



Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
POLICY MATRIX
ACTION                               DESCRIPTION                           TIMETABLE
I. Interest Rates
A. Lending Rates             (a) Remove 35  average lending rate cap           Removed on December
31, 1992
(b) Remove all caps on PINAGRO interest rates:
(1)  B Bond resources                         At a date not later
than nine months                0
af ter- loan
offei .tiveness
(ii) A Bond resources (small farmers)
to DTF+2                             January 1, 1993
to DTF+6 (market equivalent rate)    January 1, 1994
Elimination of all caps              Beyond 1994
B. Rediscount Rate           (a) for B Bond resources to be consistent with    Throughout
Banco de la Republica mechanism (but no        Project Implemen-
less than DTP)                                tation
(b) for A Bond resources : to DTF-2               January 1, 1993
to DTF                 January 1, 1994
C. Intermediation Margin    For A Bonds: Increase to 41                         January 1, 1993
for PFIs                               Increase to 61                        January 1, 1994



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
II. Portfolio
Reauirements /
ForcedInvestments
(a) Raise remuneration of forced investments;
A. Remuneration                   (1)  B Bonds: to DTF-2                        January 1, 1993
to DTF                          At a date not later
than nine months
after loan
effectiveness
(ii) A Bonds: to DTF-4                        January 1, 1993
B. Future                                       to DTF-2                        January 1, 1994
(a) Ellminate 5 B Bonds and 2S A Bonds
requirements
(i)  comprehensive review of system        By not later than
June 30, 1994
(ii) Elimination                           Beyond 1994
(b) Redeem outstanding C Bonds                    by March 1995
III. Role of FINAGRO and    FIRAGRO's access to the domestic financial
Sources of Funds        system (spart from forced investments) would be
limited to 101 of FIRAGRO's liabilities            January 1, 1994
(excluding its capital)



4
Page 3 of 3
IV. Studes                  Asess  the scope of involvmet and the
performance of the banking sector in
agricultural lending                              June 30, 1993
Analyse the causes and the .ztent to which
market failures cotinue to constrain the
delivery of crdit, with particulat focus on
emal farmrs credit                                June 30, 1993
make recieLdations as to action, required to
addres  identified issues                         October 1, 1993
o0



- 93 -
ANNE% 5
Page I of 8
COLQhbBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
Aaricultural Trade and Pricina Reform
I. The Progrsa of Aaricultural Trade Liberalization in ColoMnbia
1.          Colombia is implementing a major trade policy reform throughout
the economy, moving towards a more outward-oriented trade regime. This
process includes agricultural products, Three significant characteristics of
the prereform agricultural trade regime in Colombia are particularly relevant.
Virst, a marked contrast between the sectoral policies adopted toward
traditional export crops and those directed at import-competing food products;
production of exportable commodities was taxed and production of food was
protected. Second, quantitative restrictions (QRs) on agricultural trade
(particularly import licensing) and state trading have been the main policy
instruments affecting domestic supply and prices. Third, until recently
agricultural price interventions in Colombia were highly discretionary and
selective, lacking the necessary transparency required for an understanding of
the effect of the prevailing policies on incentives, as well as on income
transfers between the various segments of the rural and urban population. To
a large extent, this lack of transparency wae inherent to a system based on
QRs and state trading which prevailed in Colombia.
2.          As part of the Economic Modernization Program (EMP) of President
Gaviria's administration, a comprehensive new trade and price regime was
introduced starting in November 1990, which aims at removing distortions in
the structure of incentives, raising competitiveness, and expanding exports.
As a general principle, import licenses and other quantitative import
restrictions were removed and replaced by tariffs. All quantitative export
restrictions have been eliminated. The elimination of QRs on imports-and the
ongoing restructuring of IDEMA, the Agricultural Price Stabilization and
Marketing Institute which in the past hae a virtual monopoly on imports of
food, represent the most fundamental change in the agricultural trade and
price reform. By the end of 1991, the discretionary nature of agricultural
price interventions has been greatly reduced by the elimination of import
licensing, removal of export restrictions and taxes (except coffee), and the
implementation of ad valorem tariffs.
3.          The implementation of the trade reforms in Colombia has been a
gradual proceoas. Initially, the tariffs for agricultural products provided a
level of protection equivalent to that under the previous system, but were
gradually adjusted to an average level of 10-15lS consistent with the tariff
levels for importable commodities in the non-agricultural sector. The number
of tariff in positions was reduced from seven to four, the range and level of
tariffs declined from O-SOZ to 0-202, and the surcharge on imports



- 94 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
("sobretasa") was reduced in several steps from 18Z to 52, and is expected to
be consolidated into the new basic tariffs for 1992 and 1993.  For eight
considered "sensitive" commodities (cerealo, oil crops, sugar and milk) and
their derivatives and close substitutes, a price stabilization scheme has been
introduced as a system of floor and ceiling domestic prices that are
maintained through the application of variable import levies. With the
elimination of QRs11, IDEMA, the marketing parastatal that managed the
previous licensing system, has lost its monopoly in the trade of these
commodities as well as the revenues from this trade. Price and marke-ing
support for small farmers will continue to be provided by IDEMA through buying
operations in the areas of the National Rehabilitation Program, where because
of distance from the consumption centers, lack of marketing infrastructure and
political unrest, private sector marketing is not attractive. However, the
previous, production cost-based "producer support prices," (which remained
frozen at their nominal levels since 1989) have in 1992 been replaced by
"minimum guarantee prices." These are defined as the floor prices of five
commodities under the above price band system, and of beans, adjusted by the
port handling costs (added) and drying and storage costs (deducted). While
transitory arrangements are in place during 1992 for wheat, sorghum and
soybeans, the new minimum guarantee prices would also be linked to world price
trends. A summary of the reforms is shown in Appendix 1 to this Annex.
4.          While the trade reforms under the EMP were originally set for
completion in 1994, the Government in August 1991 decided to accelerate the
pace of adjustment, including for the agricultural sector, and implement the
1994 targets already in 1992. More recently, the design and development of
Colombia's trade regime has also been influenced by the negotiations with
Venezuela, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia for the creation of an Andean Free Trade
Zone. While trade within the zone is slated for total liberalization, the
five countries would apply a common system of external tariffs. Colombiags
external trade regime for 1992 and 1993, on which agreement has been
substantially achieved, would be the first phase of the move towards common
external tariffs. (The negotiations and decisions on tariffs for imports of
agricultural inputs, were, however, still uncompleted in early 1992.) For
1994, it is expected that tariff levels would be further reduced to a maximum
basic tariff of 15M, and the number of tariff positions would be reduced from
the currently four levels to three.
II. The Status of the Agricultural Trade Reform Program in 1992
5.          Imnortables.  For the Chapteos 1 to 24 of the international,
harmonized classification system. which refers to tariffs of agricultural
products, Colombia's tariff regime was based on the following basic rates
(2 of c.i.f. value):
1/    Except for wheat, for which transitory arrangements were in place during
1992 (see para. 6 (g)).



- 95 -
ANNEX S
Page 3 of 8
...........   .   ........   ......... ........* ............*.....
XR    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
\s  '..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'  *\.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~.......
G.          As a general principle basic products vithout processing have in
1992 and 1993 a maximum basic ad valorem tarlff of  5SZ, processed produto of
20x. Details# including on the arrangements in place before 1992,, are in
Table 3.1 of this Annex. Some specific imported raw materials used aS inputs
in agriculture (suoh as seeds or live animals for brooding) are charged with a
SZ tariff. However, there are a number of exceptionsladditions to the general
rulest
*.a) cotton (not included in Chapters 1-24 of the tariff system nor
under Colombia's price band system) is subject to a lOZ import
tariff;
(b)  vegetable meals and oil cakes, used mainly as animal feedo, are
subject to A 20Z basic tariff (plus the variable levy of the price
band system);
(c)  white riee and edible oil8t 20Z basic tariff plus variable levy;
(d)   sugar and by-products: 20Z basic tariff plus variable levy;
(a)   animal products, includ$ng mllk, meat and fish: 20Z basic tariff,
plus tha variable levy where applicable;
(f)   all processed food itemss 20Z tarifft
(g)   for vheat, quantitative restrictions on imports would be in place
until September 1992 to support the Covernment'a
adjustment/diversification programs for the mainly small producers
in remote areas, vho supply about 8Z of the domestic wheat demand.
Wheat and its subproducto are included in the price band system
and have a basic tariff of 15S and 20Z, respectively; and



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
(h)   domestic producers of barley are protected by a private agreement
extending to September 1993 between the monopoly buyer (beer
Industry) and the producers association (FERALCE), which
guarantees the purchase by the beer industry of 70,000 tons of
domestic barley per year at a negotiated price (Col$ 153,000 per
ton for 1991/92). Imports are subject to a 15S tariff plus the
variable levy.
7.          Exortables.  There are no more quantitative restrictions on
exports of agricultural products, and only coffee is subject to an export tax.
Major agricultural exports, except coffee, have been promoted by a system of
tax reimbursement (Cortificado de Reembolso Tributario, CERT), which
reimburses Indirect taxes embodied in export crops. In mid-1991, its level
rafted between 5 and 102: the CERT for cotton, sugar (except to the USA) and
cut-flower. (except to the USA) was 52; and for meats, dairy products,
horticultural products, rice, oil seeds, and vegetable oils, 10S. The
intention of the Government is to phase out the CERT within two years. Two
oeport commodities, sugar and coffee, have special arrangements:
(a)   Suzart Colombia external markets for sugar are: the US quota
market with a subsidized price; the Andean market, where Colombia
has advantages due to a liberalized trade regime and common
external tariff, and low transport costs due to proximity; and the
free world market as residual recipient. The administered price
for the domestic market, which was based on production costs, was
abandoned in 1992 and replaced by the automatic price setting
under the price band system. However, since Colombia is a net
exporter, the floor price under the band should not influence the
domestic price. The reference price tor the hypothetical year in
which the band could apply is the London market exchange for
refined sugar. As regards exports, the producer association
Azucafta is the monopoly exporter, which was responsib'e for the
programming sugar production and exports, and for ensuring
adequate domestic supplies. However, this arrangement is under
.review, and it is expected that AzucAa'as monopoly position will
be amended from the 6econd half of 1992 onwards, thereby
eliminating the currently existing informal quantitative
restrictions on sugar tradel and
(b)   92ZfOO: A 6.5X export tax has been applied during the last years,
of which 4 percentage points went to the regional committees to
promote coffee production and diversification, and 2.5 percentage
points to the Government. In addition, the National Coffee Fund
operates a price stabilization scheme and sets the domestic coffee
price in coordination with the Government. Due to record-low
International coffee prices since 1989, the Government portion of
the coffee export tax was suspended in February 1992.
8.          Tradable Inputs,  Table 5.2 presents a profile of tariffs and
Import surcharges during 1989, 1990, and 1991 (first semester). Relevant



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
elements of this particular distribution of trade barriers are: (1) Import
surcharges vere high and in most cases considerably higher than tariffs;
(ii) there was considerable dispersion in tariffs, from practically no tariffs
for machinery and equipment and fertilizers to higher tariffs in pesticides
and very high tariffs for packing machinery; (iii) a considerable reduction in
tariffs and surcharges took place between 1989 and 1991 for agricultural
machinery and equipment, pesticides (surcharges reduction), and an overall
gradual reduction in the average surcharge from 18Z in 1989 to 102 in
mid-1991. In early 1992, the tariff rates for these agricultural inputs vere
under negotiation in the context of the Andean Free Trade Zone, and as of
February 1992, no agreement had been reached. Under negotiation are for
instance, external tariffs of 10Z for fertilizers and finished agrochemicals,
and of 152 for capital goods. Since the trade regime for agricultural inputs
is not yet defined, the effective protection rates for agriculture cannot be
updated.
III. The Price Stabilization Scheme
9.          The legal basis for a system of price bands is Law 07 of 1991,
which empowers the Government to apply variable levies in addition to the
basic ad valorem tariff with the purpose of partially reducing the
transmission of the instability prevailing in world prices to the domestic
producer prices. The methodology for the design ard implementation of the
price band system are contained in Decree No. 672 of the Ministry of Finance,
dated March 11, 1991, and implementation started in June 1991 under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. In early 1992, the system
covered eight commodities (rice, maize, sorghum, soybeans, wheat, barley, milk
and sugar) and their derivatives and close substitutes. All of them were
previously included under the import licensing system. The variable levies
aim at maintaining a minimum and a maximum import price within a moving band
of floor and ceiling prices. The moving averages are based on actual border
prices during the last 60 months. The price band for each commodity is
adjusted every six months based on a formula which considers: (i) the
deflated monthly c.i.f. border prices over the past 60 months; and (ii) the
basic ad valorem import duty. The resulting monthly prices are ranked in
ascending order, and the fifteen highest and fifteen lowest values are omitted
to eliminate extreme values, i.e., observations numbered 16 and 45 of the
original ranking constitutes the floor and ceiling prices. As long as the
c.i.f. price, adjusted by the basic import tariff, is within the band of floor
and ceiling prices, only the basic ad valorem tariff will be applied to
imports. When the spot border price is below the corresponding floor price, a
variable levy (surcharge) is applied in addition to the basic tariff, that
would raise the import cost to the floor price, which becomes the minimum
import price. Conversely, when the spot border price exceeds the ceiling
price, the variable levy is not applied and discounts on the basic tariff are
made up to the full amount of the price difference.
10.         This price band system determines a minimum import price, but does
not guarantee that the domestic price will not fall below this floor price.
This could occur when the country Is self sufficient in a particular product



- 98 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
(for example, rice and sugar in Colombia), and/or at harvest time in the case
of importables when the price received by farmers could be lower than _he
import price as result of storage costs. In the case of self-sufficiency, the
domestic price is then determined by the market, or by the minimum guarantee
price scheme, if applicable (see para. 13. below). In addition, farmgate
prices could be considerably below the floor price because of storage costs
and the distance to the market and related transport costs.
IV. Producer Support Prices
11.         Colombia has had a traditional support price system for domestic
producers of wheat, maize, soybean, sorghum, barley and rice (paddy), that
were adjusted twice a year by Government decree to reflect changes in
production costs and trends in world prices. IDEMA had to purchase all what
it is offered at the fixed support price, which was uniform all over the
country and did not vary between the bi-annual adjustments. In recent years,
however, IDEMA did not have the adequate financial resources and it purchased
only a small fraction of the harvest of most products. The domestic
procurement prices under this price support program have been usually higher
than border prices, in particular for wheat and soybeans, but less so for
sorglhum and rice. However, with the maintenance of these prices at their
nominal levels since 1989, the price levels in real terms have declined
substantially with inflation of around 30Z per year.
12.         The principle of adopting costs of production as a basis for
pricing--on the grounds that they ensure farmers a "fair" return on their
inputs--raises several probleme, and its use as an approach for agricultural
pricing should be discouraged. One problem is, that many components of the
cost of production are a function of the price that is to be set, most notably
land rents, although other specific factors such as dairy cows and specialized
equipment display the same characteristic. Even if l.nd is excluded, the
intensi4y of input use will be determined by the price and therefore will
affect the costs of production. Moreover, the cost of production is not
unique for any given commodity. It is a function of many variables, among
which is the aggregate level of production desired (or achieved). But the
level of production is in turn a function of the price level. Collecting
masses of data on cost of production from farmers, analyzing it and sending
the information back to the farmers as a price signal may serve some purpose,
but production efficiency is certainly not one of them.
13.         In order to move to a more market based price support system for
certain producers, the Government in 1992 replaced the above "producer support
prices" by "minimum guarantee prices." Since special arrangements are in
place for barley, this crop was replaced by beans in the list of guarantee
prices.  The major difference to the previous support prices is that the
guarantee prices are automatically determined by the floo- price of the
respective commodity under the price band system, adjusted by the port
handling costs (added to the floor price) and the drying and storage costs
(which are deducted from the floor price). The new guarantee prices are thus
largely determined by border prices, and no longer by statistically determined



- 99 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
domestic production costs. IDEMA would continue to interrsne in the market to
maintain the prices. However, it is not clear, how IDEHA would finance its
eventual losses from these marketing operations, when it would need to
purchase ir remote areas, t.ranspirt to the consumption centers, and sell at
the market price which may )r may not exceed the minimum guarantee price. In
addition, as a temporary measure for the first half of 1992, the producers of
sorghum and soybeans received a price adjustment of Col$ 10,900 and Col$ 3,600
per ton of the respective crops, which would be added to the minimum guarantee
price and paid by IDERA. These adjustments aim at making the guarantee prices
for these two crops comparable to the former support prices. The calculation
of the minimum guarantee prices for the first half of 1992 is in Table 3.3 of
this Annex.
VI. Concluding Comments and Suggestions
14.         The impact of Colombia's agricultural trade regime on agricultural
growth cannot be assessed yet, in particular since it is new and still
evolving. Nevertheless, the elimination of QRs and the reductio.l of tariffs
should contribute to improve the economic performance of agriculture in
Colombia. Measured by the nominal rates of protection of the main crops,
there is no indication, that even the initial steps, when introducing the
price band system, have raised the rates of protection. If the reforms are
fully implemented and further developed, they would significantly improve the
incentive framework for the sector. However, to ensure continued maintenance
of a sound trade regime in agriculture, and in particular prevent the
reintroduction of QRs or higher tariff rates, a monitoring system should be
established and linked to the disbursement of the proposed external credit.
15.         Considering the absence of alternative risk management instruments
to deal with price uncertainty and diffuse prics risk in Colombia, a price
stabilization, such as, the price band on some products could improve economic
efficiency. However, it could also be the source of considerable costs in
terms of excessive price rigidity and political pressures, and could thus
reduce the benefits of the trade liberalization programs. A re-examination of
the price band system is suggested, at a time at which it does not risk the
reintroduction of QRs, the most fundamental change to protect.
16.         The design of Colombia's price stabilization scheme for
agriculture is not yet completed, but subject of ongoing negotiations for a
common agricultural trade regime for the Andean Free Trade Zone for 1994 and
beyond. Under these circumstances, unilateral decisions by Colombia are no
longer possible. The areas of discussions with the trading partners include,
inter alias (i) the choice of the reference prices to be used to arrive at
border prices (c.i.f. prices vary between the different countries of the free
zone); (ii) the length of the reference period for computing the moving
average (the 60 months used may be too long considering the risk of the
resource allocation costs in the adjustment of domestic prices to changes in
world prices); and (iii) the number and selection of commodities to be
included in the stpbilization scheme (the current number of over 100 products
under the band system, including the derivatives and substitutes, is



- 100 -
AJNEX 5
Page 8 of 8
excessive, difficult to implement, could introduce considerable rigidities in
price determination, and could create strong pressures to maintain a price
support scheme in years when Colombia is self-sufficient in that particular
project, and when, therefore, the band is not relevant).
17.         The additional price support system, whether the earlier producer
support prices or the minimum guarantee prices announced for 1992, has
outlived its usefulness, and it seems appropriate to revise the regulatory
framework so as to: (i) eliminate the legal obligation to establish and
procure at price support levels; and (ii) revise the merits of the price
intervention scheme for small farmers in disadvantaged areas, vis-a-vis
alternative targeted programs in those areas.
18.         As is well recognized now by economists, agricultural grotth in
Colombia and elsewhere in South America can be affected at least as much by
macroeconomic policy and industrial protection as by sector-specific,
agricultural policies. Maintaining the competitiveness of agricultural
tradeables--strongly influenced by changes in the real exchange rate and in
interest rates--can become the key to unlock the heretofore insufficiently
exploited potential of Colombian agriculture as a source of export-led growth
and efficient import substitution.
Isle,  vCo"xh.Shl  UpDate, Septeube: *5, 1092
fut btes lepttaber 25, 1992



- 101 -
COLOMBIA                               ANNEX 5
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT                  Table 1
Agricultural Trade Reform Program
June'91  Oct.'91      June 1991           1992 & 1993
ImPort LLcenses    Tariff  Surcharge      BauL Tariff bh
RequLred a/         S         %             t
Wheat                              P        P      (30) 20     0             15
Wheat Flour                      P        P      (50) 35     0             20
Pastas                                                                     20
Maize (Yellow)                     P        L        30        0             15
Maize Flour                      P        L        50        0             20
RLce (Paddy)                       P        L        20        0             15
Rice (WhIta)                     P        L      (50) 35     0             20
Soybean                            P        L        30        0             15
Soybean Cake                     P        L        30        0             15
Barley                             P       (L) P   (20) 15     0             1i
Malt                             P       (L) P   (30) 20     0             15
Beer                                               30        0             20
Sorghum                            P        L        30        0             15
Cotton                             P        L         0       10             10
Sugar                              P        L        20        0             20
Vegstable Olls:
Palm Oil (Unrefined)             P        L        40        0             15
Palm Oil (Refined)               P        L        50        0             20
Cotton Seed Oil (Unrefined)      P        L        40        0             20
Cotton Seed OLI (Refined)        P        L        50        0             20
Corn Oil                         P        L        40        0             20
Corn OLI (Refined)               P        L        so        0             20
Sunflower Oil (Refined)          P        L        50        0             20
Soya Oil (Unrefined)             P        L        40        0             20
Soya Oil (Refined)               P        L        50        0             20
Notest a/ 'PI - Prlor import license reKuired
"L" - "LLbre", no prior import license required
b/   Surcharge consolidated with basic tarlff
Figures in parantheais represent the tariff or surcharges acoording to the
liberalization schodule of June 1991.
Tarlffe Ln thli table exclude variable tariffs under the price band system
(where appILiable).
Sources Based on information provided by the MinLitry of Agriculture
in June and October 1991, and Februery 1992
Wile: \CO\3ATabl.wkl            Update: 06/22/92                    Printdat-s    09/25/92



102 -
COLOMBIA                            ANNEX 5
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT              Table 2
Tariffs and Surcharges on Imported Agricultural Inputs
1989     1990        1991              1992
July  October   & onwards
Tariff:
Seeds                          7.5      5.0      (5.0)     0.0   UNDER
Fertilizers                    1.0      1.0      (1.0)     0.0   lVIEW;
Herbicides                    10.0     10.0      (5.0)     5.0
Insecticides                  13.9     10.0    (15.0)      5. 0    T
Other Preemirgents            10.0     10.0     15.0)      5.0   YET
Packing MaterLal              70.0     56.7    (50.0)    15.0   DTERMINED
Machinery a/                   8.5      0.8      (0.3)     0.0   lRl
Surcharget
General                       18.0     15.6    (13.0)      8.0        0.0
Pesticides and Herbicides    18.0      15.6      (5.0)     5.0        0.0
Tariff Plus Surcharges
______________________
Seeds                         25.5     20.6    (18.0)      8.0   UNDER
Fertilizers                   19.0     16.6    (14.0)      8.0   :VIEW;
Herbicides                    28.0     25.6    (10.0)    10.0   I
Insecticides                  31.9     25.6    (20.0)    10.0   :OT
other Preemergents            28.0     25.6    (20.0)    10.0   YET
Packing Material              88.0     72.3    (63.0)    23.0   YfTERMINED
Machinery                     26.5     16.4    (13.3)      8.0
Tariff on Machinery:
Tractor                        1.1      0.1    (0.0)       0.0        0.0
Combine                        1.1      0.1    (0.0)       0.0        0.0
Seeder and Harrow             17.6      0.1    (0.0)       0.0        0.0
Other                         17.6      0.1    (0.0)       0.0        0.0
Notes: a/ Simple average tariff rate for the principal agricultural machinery and
equipment used in Colombia.
At the time of pre-appraisal, tariff rates for-imported inputs were under
negotiation with the partner countries in the Andean Free Trade Zone.
Sourcet Based on information provided by the Ministry of Agriculture
in June and October 1991, and February 1992
File: \CO\3AT'ab2.wkl      Update: 06/22/92                    Printdate: 09/25/92



COLOKBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
Producer Support and Kinimum Guarantee Prices in Colombia, 1991 and 1992
1991          1992   1992    1992         1992             1992               1992
Producer Support   Floor Market Producer Minimum Garantee Adjustment Factor Minimum Garantee
Price         Price   Price  Support      Price                               Prlce plus
ex-dock ex-dock Prlce                                       Adjustment Factor
USO/ton Col$/ton  US$/ton US$/ton US$/ton US$/ton col$/ton US$/ton  Col$/ton  US$/ton Col$/tork
Product         (13      (2]      (33     t4]     15]      161      [7)     (8e      [91      10)      [11J
Sorghum           175  110,500      165    178      160     144   99,636       16   10,864       160  110,500
Rice (Paddy)      346  217,963      437    481      350      365  252,262     -15   (10,002)     365  252,262
Soybean           343  216,000      352    353      313     307  212,373        6     3,627      313  216,C00
Maize             187  118,000      202    226       174     176  121,726      -2    (1,726)     176  121,726
Wheat             241  152,000      213    218      220      186  128,582      34    23,418      220  152,000
Barley            243  153,000                              Not Included in Minimum Guarantee Price System
__ _---  ----_--------- _-_--------_---------------_--____ ____ ____--- -e_________ __________ ________
Notes:  (1]  At an exchange rate of Col$ 630 per US$.
12) In effect during 1992 (both seasons); largely unchanged from 1989 nominal levels.
(3] Based on Prlce Bands for January 1992 plus tariff (including 4% shrinkage).
(4] Based on commodity futures prices.
[5) 1991 Producer Support Prices at the exchange rate of Col$ 691.13 per US$ as at December 31, 1991
[83 & [9)  Costs estimated by IDEMA at the exchange rate of [5].
Sources:     Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, Documento DNP-2558-UDA-4inAgricultura: Programa de
Modernizacion y Diversifica_ion del Sector Agropecuario, San.a Fe de Bogota, Octuber 15 de 1991;
Version Aprobada.
Information obtained by the MiLsion from Ministry of Agriculture in February 1992.
File: \CO\3ATab3.wkl   Update:'  06/22/92            Printdeate: 09/25/92
w Ln



- 104 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT pROJECT
Summary of Trade and Pricint Policy Reform.
External Trade Reaime
1.          The new external trade reiime An agriculture, as in force from
May 1992, is characterized by the following reform elements:
(a)   all quantitative restrictions (QRs) on imports of industrial
products, except restrictions being maintained for health and
security reasons, have been eliminated;
(b)   QRs on agricultural imports, except wheat, are replaced by ad
valorem tariffs;
(c)   imports of eight groups of 'sensitive" agricultural commodities
and their derivatives and substitutes (wheat, rice, maize,
sorghum, soybeans, barley, vegetable oils, sugar and milk powder)
are regulated through a price band scheme whose main purpose is to
stabilize domestic producer prices. Under this price band scheme,
variable tariffs are applied in addition to the basic ad valorem
tariff, in order to maintain the domestic price within a moving
price band that reflects the deflated border prices of the eight
commodities over the last 60 months. Because wheat is mostly
produced by small farmers in remote areas, transitory
arrangements, including continuing import licensing, are in place
to ease the integration of wheat into the general system and to
soften the negative social =mpact of the trade liberalization for
these farmer groups who have few alternatives for cash crops;
(d)   the basic ad valorem tariffs were reduced and consolidated into
four levels of 5, 10, 151 and 20Z: (i) The two lower tariffs are
for inputs, materials and goods which are produced domestically,
depending on the degree of their processing; (ii) the 151 tariff
is applied to the unprocessed commodities included in the price
band system; and (ii) the 201 tariff is for highly processed
agroindustrial products, such as flours, vegetable oils and sugar.
Morecger, inputs, raw materials and intermediate capital goods
that are not produced in Colombia are not charged by import
tariffs (See Tables L to 4 of this Appendix)
(e)   the tariff surcharge, used to generate earmarked resources for
export subsidies, IDEMA and agricultural housing progrems, and
which has been applied to all imports except those included under
the price band system (see (c) above), was reduced in several



- los -
Appendix 1
Pasge 2 of 3
steps from 18Z to 5S in early 19921 it is Intended to consolidate
the surcharge with the new basic tariff levels as from May 19921
(f)   the export subsidy CURT (Certificado de Reembolso Tributario),
used to compensate exportere of certain products for indirect
taxes paidd Is being simplified and slated for elimi4nation within
two yearsl and
(g)   remaining export restrictions were eliminated and export taxes
reduced, except for coffee. Howevor, due to record low
international coffee prices, since 1989, the four percentage
points Goveren nt portion of coffee export tax was suspended in
February 1992.
2.          The economy wide trade reforms under the SHP have reduced the
overall, import weighted average tariff protection, including the surcharge,
from about 30S In 1990 to about 132 in 19F,2. However, while the basic thrust
of the EMP with regard to trade reforms has been completed, the ongoing
process of establishing an Andean Free Trade Zone between Colombia, Venezuela,
Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia may lead to future adjustments of the Colombian
trade regime, both with regard to trade within and outside the proposed free
trade zone.
Domestic Harketint
3.          Govornment Interventions in domestic marketing Lhve been reduced.
With the introduction of price bands for sensitive Imports on June 1, 1991,
IDIH4 lost its monopoly in food Imports. IDEIA has refocused its
interventions on agricultural marketing in marginal areas, e.g., the depressed
regions included under the National Rehabilitation Program, on managing food
reserve stocks as required, and on marketing of commodities in which the
private sector is not interested, in particular maintaining minimum guarantee
prices of six basic food crops produced mainly by small farmers.
Producer Suort Price2
4.          Producer support prices for six basic food crops (wheat, maize,
soybean, sorghum, barley and rice (paddy)) continued to exist until
April 1992, with IDINA responsible for their enforcv- ,it through domestic
buyinglselling and storage activities. However, the prices were frozen at
their 1989 nominal levels, and hence have strongly declined in real torm. As
from May 1992 the Government intends to replace the support prices by "m1nin
Unarmnteo grioes" for wheat, Maize, soybeans, Sorghum, rice (paddy) and
beans). These new minimm guarante* prices are set twice per year before the
start of the agricultural seasons, and correspond to the floor prices under
the price band system (less the costs of storage and drying), thereby linking



- 106 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Page 3 of 3
these pricec to International price developments. IDEHA would purchase these
products at the guaranteed price and sell later at higher spot prices. The
future role, and trading functions of IDEMA as woll as the required financing
for them are being redefined in the context of the Public Sector Reform Loan
(Loan 3278-CO).
ct\P5elS 1JCa 8W
Juy1.N3



ANNEX 5
Appendix I
-107 -                                                Table 1
22.'Q:aj                                                      A!ESCES StS SOUFloESl S5I Pi. 7 P!005010 tOD¢QO  POE 18OTAClONES
SECUY CPIUWS 31JL AIAICEL
(1990 -1992)
!990                         !991                         1992
PEC 3104,
DIeC 214 /I      Rtma0      1550, 2095 /2    UNIT1       DEC 25" /3      IVnOR
A!ACEL luaCIL   olE - DIC   UUCSL ARANC!L  uIs - DIC  LAICIL A!CiiL LI - SiP
CAP                DISCIR-C:OH                 POYDi21D SI'PiS 1990 (US $)  908W  59 18 1991 (US $I PONDll    SPLE  1992 (US S)
J5                           /6                           /6
TOTAr FO1001A /4                23.71  34.45 5,47.098,531   21.2!  27.43 4,S66,266.441    7.97   11.79 4,826,020.2 6
W.o"t AGIHCOLA 15               28.49  44.39  422.614,96!   29.59  35.20  352,585,223   15.04  15.03  463,155,332
01 UlAMlS VivOS                                  25.14  39.14    2.853,620   28.12  16.51    2.536,040    5.84   8.67    2,188,067
02 CABIES I DESPOJOS CMSTIBLES                   53.00   53.00    !,327,517   47.43  46.93    2,534,577   19.99  20.00       4.224,562
03 P1E0SCAS, CEUSTACEOS I NWUSCOS I 0705 IN[RT 52.48  51.86    3,172,301   41.38  46.84    3,233,618   19.44  18.20    2,804,613
04  CEC,P!O.CTOS,8UEVOS,H1EL PROD. COESTIB. 42.68   53.10    3,851,883   35.14  19.23    5,050,217  18.55   18.80    11,471,860
05 DMS .0oDUCTOS of ORICE3  A118L                29.!6  30.44     !,893,022   2!.64  22.47    3,889,404   9.24   8.80        3,522,123
06 PLAITAS 717LS I PRODUCTOS Dg rL !WRICULTOU    18.00   18.00    11,217,497   12.42   12.00    11,302,320    4.99   5.00    8,371,508
07 LEGIUC S I RORTALIUAS, P1W4U. RAWaS I MU   18.54  31.87   31.584,329   32.77  28.01   27,795,505   14.97   13.90    35.362.886
08 RiIOS COEISTIBLES, COHE=S Di AilOS O DE s  33.49   45.96   22.556,9A4   37.17  30.65   17,845,349   14.99  IS.00    19,635,805
09 CA1E, Ti, TERRAEAT! I ISPCIAS                 43.14. 43.38    5,218,623   36.01  36.87    3,723,631   10.20   12.80       4,511,025
10 CEALUS                                        15.39   25.59   150,200,280   22.40  25.40   95,605,283   15.36   11.00   188,494.341
11 PIODUCUOS Dl LA OLIN1llt; UALT, ILIMDOS 1  30.92   42.55    24,006,157   37.10  38.91    6,537,831   19.45   19.70       1,765,682
12 S0EILLAS I IRUTOS OLIGINOSOS. DIMSOS, PLA   20.51   25.18   21,683,662   22.32  24.84   26.476,449   13.88    9.72    35,101,763
13 COlAS !ESIIS I OTMOS JUGOS I muCroS 1IGM   28.00   28.00    9,727,853   22.08  22.47    3,561.142    7.62   9.00          6,041,556
14HETRIES PLA YEAR ! OTROS PRODUCTOS Of10l 28.00   28.00             59,663   24.25  24.24        180,210   9.99   10.00        16.789
15 GMISAS I CEaITIS (U4I81S I VIGMI S)           44.76   51.49   54,281,407   40.03  36.39   56,444,527   17.04   18.20    40,416,664
16 REPAIADOS Dl CMO5E, PISCDOS, CIaUSACIOS I N 63.00   83.00    22,422,916  .48.92  49.23   19,688,0   20.00   20.00    18,920,667
17 AUCES I AiCuwS D3 COIfIIUA                   33.68   43.56    3,556,576   32.17  28.23    3,649,588   13.72   16.00      4,134,723
18 CUAO I SUS PEPARDOS                           62.75   43.71      213,138   23.52  38.15       280,735   18.01   17.30     1,138,694
19 P18PJ4DOS A BASE Of CIUUIS, UIIUS1 , UAIO   55.01  54.00         253,865   46.28   46.26      952,156   18.97   19.70     1,570,853
20 PUPUICOS DE LIG      S, EORMIUZS,  MS         62.97   63.00    1,919,863   40.49   46.87    1,841,514   19.38   19.70     3,405,655
21 PUPAliAOS AlEmICIOS D171505                   53.01   55.50    9,053.350   42.90  34.23    C,108,612   15.10   17.60      7,157,512
22 BEBIDES, LIUIDOS sALOHOICOS I ilIARI!        52.96   52.:2   11,570,M73   27.31  27.17    9.531,942   10.38   13.20    10,393,099
23 RISIDUOS I DISPIRDICIOS DE LUS INDUSTRIlS ALIN  25.01   33.80   29.198.!12   31.85  26.30   35.859.591   14.41   14.50    50,079,068
24 TUAICO I SJCDAUIOS DIL TABCO ILBOEOOS.        58.34   52.17      !32.080   35.92  27.29    6,!56,552    5.00    5.00      2.366.019
lUllt!: MIII. CAILDS DIP-9D1T-DCa.
/1 Tipente en 1990. Sobretasa del 13 1.
/2 Poaderacida de los aranceles vigentes et 1991 egum periodo de vigeacia t i prtacionus anales.
/3 Tligeate a partir de enero de 1992. Sin sobretaua dbido a las sedidau de tarifiiacidn.
/4 Poaderaci6a del arancel vsi sobretasa por la participaci6s del item arucelario co el total d iaportaciones del priodo.
/5 Pooderacido del arancel ms sobretasa por la participaci6n de lot I£   ranelarios aricolas en el
total de iprtaciones avricolas (caps 1 -24) del periodo.
/6 Los prosedios correspades al arancel ws  sobretasa  poderado por las iportaciouus del ites ara4celario sobre el total de
isportacioues del capitulo.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
- 108 -                                                  Table 2
CUADRO I
QALOR DE LA PRODUCCION AGROPECUARIA. TOTAL HACIONAL 1990-1992
ac---- val rian ----            - Uar I 
ACTIVIDADES                                       S (mill de 19753            1991      199
1990       1991      1992      1990      1991
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   . .  __ . ... ._ ......... . _..
TOTAL ACROPECUARIO                                147,622.4  153,867.4 154,754.2       4.23      0.58
(1) ACRICULTURA                                  96,406.7  100,787.0 100,887.9       4.54      0.10
ACRICULTURA SIR CAE                          78,416.3   80,104.9  80,333.6       2.15      0.29
Cultivos Seeestrales                       35,612.4   34,506.7  30,415.4    -3.10    -11.86
Cultivos Pernanentes                       42,803.8   45,592.2   9,918.2       6.53      9.47
CAFE                                         17,990.5   20,682.1  20,554.3    14.96       -0.62
(2) PECUARIO                                     51,215.7   53,080.4  53,866.3       3.64     4.48
3owinos                                      34,080.5   35,170.5  34,535.7       3.20     -1.80
Porcinos                                      2,559.3    2,636.1   2,847.0       3.00      8.00
Avicultura                                    13,807.8 -14,479.9  15,689.7       4.87      8.35
Ovinos                                          344.9       358.7    358.7       4.00      0.00
Caprinos                                         187.1      194.4    194.4       3.90      0.00
Apicultura                                       236.1      240.8    240.8       1.99      0.00
SILVICULTUR, PESCA Y ACUICULT.                       9,301.6    9,257.1  10,445.7     -0.48     12.84
Silvicultura                                   2,097.0    2,911.0   2,929.0     39.10      0.41
Pesca   Ac;Uicultura                          7,204.6    6,340.1   7,516.7    -12.00      18.56
TOTAL ACROPECUARIO. SILU., PESCA V ACUICULT.       156,924.0  161,124.5 165,199.9      3.95      1.27
Fuente: Nihigriculturi g D1P - USA
': Qer desagregacion cuadro 2



ANNEX 5
Appendix I
-  109  -                                            Table  3
Cuadro 2
AGRICULTURA:  PRODUCCION OBTENIDA Y UALORACION ACRICOLA.  TOTAL NACIONAL 1991 - 1992
-------oToneladas -----------      ....... Valoracion ---------           --- Uar I ...
Cultivos                                                                          S (eill de 19751                 1991    1992
1990        1991        1992         1990      1991        1992         1990    1991
--                      -         -  ..--
tQTAL ACRICULTURA                   19,768,167 20,022,772 20,214,425    96,406.7 100,787.0 100,887.9               4.54    0.10
(1) AGRICULTURA SIR CAFE            18,923,187 19,051,372 19,249,025    78,416.3  80,104.9  80,333.6              2.15    0.29
(A) Cultivos Seuestrales          8,764,,95  8,330,521  7,637,660    35,612.4  34,506.7  30,415.4              -3.10  -11.86
Ajonjoli                         8,230        5,602       3,785         99.7      61.9        45.8       -31.93  -32.43
Algodon                        314,170    414,539    306,589         3,360.4   4,433.9   3,279.3          31.95  -26.04
Arroz lotal                  2,116,600  1,738,600  1,734,950         6,938.2   5,699.1   5,687.2         -17.86   -0.21
cebada                         100 400    102,400        56,039        543.5     554.3      303.3          1.99  -45.27
Frijol                         132,150    108,016    119,756         1,925.4   1,573.8   1,744.8         -18.26   10.87
laiz Total                   1,213,300  1,273,600  1,055,670         5,566.6   5,843.3   4,843.4           4.97  -17.11
Nani                              4,760       5,384       4,228         35.7       40.4       31.7        13.11  -21.47
Papa                         2,464, 40  2,371,948  2,281, 400        6,303.9   6,067.4   5, 835.8         -3.75   -3.82
Sorgo                          777,400    738,300    751,785         2,797.9   2,657.1   2,705.7          -5.03    1.83
Ro  uo232,140    193,597                                 96,002      2,273.8   1,896.3      940.3        -16.60  -50.41
Tabaco Rubio                    11,645      12,535        9,825        309.0      332.6     260.7          7.64  -21.62
Trigo                          104, 80      93, 900      75,219        677.6     607.2      486.4        -10.40  -19.89
Nortalizas                   1,284,800  1,272,100  1,142,412         4,780.7   4,733.5   4,250.9          -0.99  -10.19
(f) Cultivos Peraanentes         10,158,392 10,720,851 11,611,365    42,803.8  45,598.2  49,918.2               6.53    9.47
Banano Expor.                1,243,614  1,521,332  1,673,469         2,341.7   2,864.7   3,151.1          22.33   10.00
Cacao                           56,153      58,141       59,168      1,649.3   1,707.7   1,737.9           3.54    1.77
Cana Azucar 1               1,588,800  1,702,413  1,989,315         9,080.0   9,729.3  11,368.9           7.15   16.85
Cafla Panela 2/              1,092, 629  1,092, 551  1,084, 534      5,923.1   5,922.7   5,879.3          -0.01   -0.73
Coco                           119,308    129,643    125,485           475.7     516.9      500.3          8.66   -3.21
Fique                           21,607      35,082       34,663        182.9     297.0      293.5         62.36   -1.19
llae                            28,322       51,944      53,378         94.4      173.1      177.9        83.41    2.76
Palua Afric. 3!                251,961    290,856    304,496         3,935.6   4,543.2   4,756.2          15.44    4.69
Platano                      2,515,943  2,560,726  2,859,979         7,130.2   7,257.1   8,105.2           1.78   11.69
Tabaco Negro                    21,344      21,803      17,103         424.7     433.9      340.3          2.15  -21.56
Yuca                         1,939,019  1,645,213  1,835,736        3,096.6   2,627.4   2, 931.7         -15.15   11.58
Frutales                     1,172,500  1,498,960  1,573,908         2,851.5   3,645.5   3,82?.?          27.84    5.00
Flores        4/               107,192    112,187    130.664         5,617.9   5,879.7   6,848.1           4.66   16.47
(2) CAFE 5/                            844,980    971,400    965,400    17,990.5  20,682.1  20,554.3              14.96   -0.62
Fuente: OHP - UDA, URPAs, Ninisterio de Agricultura-Direccion de Produccion g Planificacion. SIAE.
Forestal: DNPO PAFC, INDERENA. Ca culos Direccion 6ral. de Produccion-NAG.
Pesguero: INPA, ACUAMAL. Calculos Direccion General de Produccion NAG.
1/: Produccion en terminos de azucar. 2/: Produccion en tereinos de panela.
3/: Produccion en tereinos de acei te crudo.
4/: Flores 1992 fuente DPAE con ci ras hasta septieebre. Para los eeses de oct. a dic. progectadas.
5/: Fuente: DNP I Oficina Asesores Cafeteros
Dota : La cifra correspondiente a la valoracion agricola para los peruanentes 1992
tienen el caracter de prelieinar.



ANNEX 5
*AGE NO.                                             - 110 _                                                     Appendix 1
01/22/92                                                                                                          Table  4
MICIPAUL-  PCSICIONES SEWUN CONtRIPUCION AL ARANCIL                                                      sPge -'   of  3
NANDINA    PsCRIPONff                                                         RANCEL        IMPORT URTRI?
HIE  255    SN  - SC.? AWArEL
199'          199!  o0NDER
IDS)
100$10900d DEAS TR}SO DURO IPARA OTROS USCS)                                   15.00      98600954  3.!933
1005900000 DENAS NAIZ (PARA OTPROS USOS)                                       !5.00      4306720!  1.3940
1201009000 0EAIi NAIAS DE SOYA (PARA OTROS US0S0 INCLUSO GUiERANTADAS          15.00      2670990i  O.965Q
2304000000 TORTAS Y D.S RESIOU05 SCLIDOS EXTRACCION ACUTIE B, SOJA             15.00      2422013  O.We05
106300000 ARROZ SENISLANOUEADO 0 PLANgUEADO ilC  PUL11O C GLASOADO            20.00      01993095  4.6043
1507100000 ACEITt 1 SOYA Eli iPITO INC  DESGONAD".                             2#. I00     330944  0.i?94
2301201000 HARINA kE PESCAiD  INPROPIA P ALINEN7ACIO  NUANAM                   15.00      l63?545  9.H330
1604139000 SARDINELAS Y E.3ADNE3 ENbT. 0 EN TRUZO.'EXCLUPJESCAD PIC4D0    20.00           !2A03947  0.51!h
1502009010 6iASA IOVIN OVIN CAPR FUND 0 EXTRAID X DISOLY IOL JUG oDSNA   15.00            14404724  0.466       *
1003009000 CENAS C3D4DAS (PARA GTROS USGS)                                     15.00      12490010  0.4045
0713409000 OS' LENTEiAS SECAS DOSVAINADAS (PARA OiROS USGS)                    15.00      12)88307 9.3948
0808100000 NANIANAS FRESCAS                                                    1s.00        87W6397  0.319f
0703309000 INS FRIJOLES SECOi DEiVAINADOS (PARA OTi0S UISOS                    15.4P       9054.79  0.2.20
!001902000 DEfPS TRIG6S EXCE?TO OURO (PARA OTROS USOS)                         '5.00        36e5844  0.2709
0713199000 DONS  ARVEJAO 60jrUESTES SECOf  DESHINDS. (PARk fTROS USS)          115.00      6568773  0.1127
0402210090 LEC6f T NATA CGC.SIN AZUC.RN POLVO.SRAS>1.5Z.IEASE ) 5 U6   2.00                3843500  0.1660
1006200000 ARROZ DKSCASCARILLADO (ARROZ CARGO 0 AR' PA ID0'                    20.00       340539  0.1471
100400?900 GOHAS AVENA (PARA OTROQ  US0)                                      1'.00       39430j7  0.1277
1604140000 A0NES.LISTADCS Y SONITOSARIA SPP).EXClUIDO PEHCADO FICADG   20.00               295691P  0.1277
2106902000F PRED COPUESTAS QO ALCONOLICAS P ELAS DE BEDIGAS                    1i.00       t3d0702  0.1072
1208900000 DEMS HARINA 0 SEILLAS CLEA61WOSAS EXCEP HARINA DE MOSTAZA    15.00              2801053  0.090?7
!506000010 RSA IESPERD'CIGS INCL RE£INADOS PERO SIN NODIFICAR CQPIiCO   15.00              27777777   0.0900
0806200090 1£1AS PASAS (EVASES >  16!                                          15.00       2402847  0.0778
0404100000 LACTOS,UERO INCL COKESRADC AZUCHALA  Y EiLCOR 3 OTRO BODO0    20.00             17921%!  0.0774
l512110000 ACEITE EN  IRU'T DE SiRASOL  e  CARTANO r s FRAC                    20.00       1772687  0.0745
2309902000 NE.CLS CONC I ANT.'IQT V,TAdg  Q TROS P FA3RIC A!!N AiTNALES    10.00           3541!23  0 .0765
0402100090 LECNE Y  ATA C4.AZUr-C.Ek PGLV0.SRASA<  l.            S ....AS. '' [6  20.00    1723198  0.0744
070320000  AJOS FRESCOS 0  RER16ERADOS                                         15.0        2'53467  0.069.7
0207210000 CARNE. I FSSPO  COHS- S SALLOS V GALLINAS CONGELADGAS SN TOPC   20.00           1849o67  0.0626
230220000@ SALVAIOS f OHl  RESIOUS D- AR5.Q.                                   15.00       I!43'   0.0620
0708200000 P OSTO  UFRIJOLUS~ INC  VAINITAS iNAAHCHUELASI          0 i EFRIS   :5.00      1?997779  0.061 S
:291?71400910 ALC.!"0!- ET1ICO SN DMTHAYURLZAR PHO GiYUOS USES                 !5.00      141674  i.0114
1007004006 1ENAS: SOQROG EQ   64? IWARO GYROS !ISW0S                           15.00       180744i   0.0503
'D701O1010 LACTHsP S1k AReMATiAF HN  COLuREAR                                  15i.00      !715i252  O.05i5
230S109000 IlS  ARN4NAS POLKC PY PLLTS B CARE I£sPeaO.S AL!!. HURANA             Q.0       16°Sti  0.053*
164200009 HEAW  PREPARACiONEi  v CONSER!VAE DE FESCAIS                         29.00       U3:SY?F  0,33¶
P'00290990 OHS LEcIEF    NATkbA.3CG:.  Lk ULV.Y. 6R45,1 N.5t.        >5 [6      20.09       1£15t.i; t9599
971209,dO 31c GAR8ANZOS  tC rE?sAIfNADUS (?ARA  YTROS US^S)                   1£.0Q        VW76sU   0.0482
4,053000   9RA08 X  r.  ;'          INC'- LOS GRINHES f NECtARiNAS FRUSCA   1.05A          13541  0.0440
110512911I00. AL.PR OSi   NAIZ l!.£2                                                       190417i  0.442
9460400900  ROSALE! .  i    IN.cF'                                              5.90      3F'164:  S.0O:
'J2100-39? H.9i " F        'e n;PEEO  NO. Ey 3Si   ThSPEcONE1.0',~                                   .1
09;i300009 MeHILLAS DE C01K...                                                   .09       I ? !
&151;5@5305t   9H SENT.RA  A* CT               VLQfI6.  E  !t.,HAH  1;& . ,    ;?.d4 -
1302 13089  JU3g! Y UXYRACTN2 H. L~10'"..                                       5.08            1:  OX9
:06900995 9  .o1.  P`V     t 0.! ' Fo SIPRE 'Gu .S ET' SiRitA2 '-.N Cr"                     ,,, E^A
119060'310(* *hfi HV iUR      ' EL CA_  E. .. 3k TF.TUP.A; ff PtL8SE.          19.0A!      i7!4!U1  (9.Owl?v



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
- 111 -                                                  Table 4
>46E NO.      2                                                                                                 Page  2  of  3
0l22/f92
§tINCI'.ALE.'  IICIONE? SEG'JH CONrRIPL'.C10N Al ARA4!CEl
PONERADQ
I6UDiNA    P.'SCPIPCT.ON                                                       ARANCEL         I{PPQR  SONtRIP
DEC t55 ENE - SEP ARANCEL;
1992          1992  PONDER
(US 0)
021141P000 reOlZS r 1Ei0O.10S DE GALLS 0 FALLINA EXCEPO HIE,APOS CONGELA   20.00               843472  0.0365
060210P000 ES9UE."S SIN EWPIlZAR E INJERTOS                                        5.00       3.29(581  0.0355
!6419000  DEIAS iESCADPH  ENTEROi 0 EN TROHOS.EXCLUSION PE'CADO PICAPD    20.00                 85101t  0.0353
223i001000 CSRYEZA PE P41                                                         2?0.qL       7^?972  0.0345
IMP2QOQ0 D'ii 6E4:4i FUNIPAIS INtl FeENSAOAS NQ EXPRES POSIC ANHEe!R'E  15.P0                  9?256'  O.13I
0394200400 FILErES C             DElAOQ? PE PESCAD4                              21.00         742^?5  09.0520
02Q1OP0'9 CCAht. r PEOND CWEST P AYES iH iROCEAR FRESCeS a REF.i.ERAD   20.OQ                  727.t6  0.M314
MG62700'10 M.C91USIACEPS PIN C HNOELAR                                             ?4.00       716?61  0.0310
1I4701900 PEN", 4RiS PE (CMIERIA SIN4 CACAO(INCL,EL CH0(0LAHE P4LA5O0   20.00                   7,I15!  0.02RI
E^2790000  DOES 1J451ES ETWERQS 0 EN IROZOS.                                      ?0.Q0        672  02 0.0290
0.1200000  PESMC   MfE?E   RFRI N C  EM!.D FILET r 0115 CAR P FESC Q P.03.04   20.0            e601;Z  0A02E5
!V074Ci005 DEflh? 'EPI!!A4  HE SEH4A0 tJON.'OLI  I!ICL!.SQ 9UEPPANRTADS           I5.O?       p    4 .   0 21 0 y9
04127C0 lEtIW  : 114  y  £L'CE'T h I  CN EN                     PE3O              1 ?.::54    is.oo  e.p   .<
2i10:W0'1r? EXTROC'(   E!E1IIAS Y   ICENIAOQNS P WE Y ,US FtEP.ARACO!IE?            .00        Q954  0. 0025
11gl0000 kC£ETE FI"10M  p PALfo V iJ, FP.ACCION EN PI,0I'I   UNILClMAEHIE   20.00           501;M  0.02'2
-'"|2;PW    P0D1 #!M.ASqs r ESPE'ATiY D'R04A P YEEETALS INCHL MOlFICNIM          15.00        ;il623  0.OZV
27q.9,v4q       %5CO TrA  P(lUE3 V FASJAh  PE LO 1 DEOAS fRQUIS                   20.50        5PA1I  0,0245
'51'95?900 ACEi' tE LI!14ZA SUS FPACC WEf!NAPQ SNl PI¢C4R M        OINIM QIMIMENT   Z0.00      !5W7  M.M240
24i11??Q VINHS BE UA4 E.N CUNPIMNES NFOA IQMPLEE1ENA44IA CAh 22                    3.05       2144470  i4.0232
!992q50099 SEMILLAS F'.JPRAEWS E.f 5910 LAS 1 REPQ.ACHA P.4.A LA S!EM RA           5.00       21PPi56  0.0229
2,042014Q  OPS VIHO3 DE 5UVA E! PECIPTE4rES QD:2 104  LIT?                        2.0          51P?.  0.02F
?1HiM90?0 PIS P19P °R1Q A'I1K NO E£P uIR P?4AilP INPROP P ALIN HU#A.Y4            10.00         Mf?l0  0.021S
-"511!i,0900 PR! FTOS P PEVCA4O ? CkP!Si r0LU"S U OFkOS INVERT A4UATIC9S          10.0M        994248  0.021 $
M2504!7 11   RANV? 7 M E. 9CUM) MOI4SERY PHOVIS InPMOPHOFs AELIOSNI NL'04N   15.00             627104  0.0243
OV0290'P0 ?EROS Y PEHILLOS FRESCOv                                                15.00        594462  0.4013
1207390010 915 iTFO1iS I "ESP01?OO  tCQIESI DE AYE FRESCOS Q iEFHiSERADOS         Z0.10        469;'0  m.0190
07I35$9:i9 tfE4A5 RA;PAS SECA9   DESIVANAPAS 1rARA DTkOS USeS!                    15.00        571515  0.018!
M10^1000  .4CEi'E 0 el.VA f rPACCiOfl P  EFY1 RE C EO SY PIFD1  0Ui1i.-A1 ENi   20.00        421040  0.0102
ZQM911000 iUQ DE WAIANIA CQY6E'ADQ SP rEgMENTAR 1 SN ALCO90HL                    .20^          41540  0.Q.180
1510000090 DM.5 54A?A Y ACEITES  14MI  0 YES Y SUS PREP CIC!  QXID4D PESI!I   20.00            413S78  0.0117
I5191.?0P1 ACIIOS CE450S DEL 'T4ll OIl'                                           15.00        540621  0.017O
2709300010 WiM5Y EN ENV4SE 4 HASIA PE 5 Le. INCLLIIVE                              5.00      1?9195  0.3173
00132 Q000  CIPRUELA  SECAS                                                       15.00        53273   O.Ol'i
!515400)Ao 4CEIE iE TU'1Q  IS F'sACC INHL REFINA0oS sEN PDIFIC 9'111C   20.00                3V?239  0.0172
24 Q22020 0, CIEARMMLLS DE 140t'0 HUIM                                             M.o0       1531814  0.0172
0406100000 3UE;OS FRESCCS SIN rEPPENFrAR r HEQUESON                               20.00        394653  0.0170
OIOII9IOOO   MUTHOS VIVO? FESO AzA 185 00 (SERErO 6CA!LLS P)                       M.O        1520705  0.0164
!406401900 A;RQZ PA1ri19                                                          20.00        363633  0.0157
05040020910 NYIFAS O ANIKALES EXCE'    PESCAPO ENTEROS 0 TO OZ5S                  10.00         723148  0.0156
009190 11i00  CQCQS FRESC-?S 0 SECOS INCL SlN CASCARA 0 PONPADOS                  15.00        479222  1.OIS
20087Q0000  DENS? PUFAN2N2S CON5SERYVAOS Of OIA FOPPA                             20.00        343P.5  0.014?
IQOI'.00001  PE"AS PPEr. F4p, ALI4ENTAC151N INFA41IL ACHPO  VIA AL X 1ENYR    20.0            7 3'613  0.0!47
211-903100  HNIPDLIZADS PD  PEOTEINA7S                                            15.090       446424  0.0145
too'h!001901   Oe R?  'N  RAAPS PARA SIEW9RA                                       5.00       13.2533  0.0143
08112v00100 MEECH  DEL HAISIl FRESCAS 0 SECAS INCE. SN CASCAA 0 FIONDAPAS   15.00               4i24:l  0.0140
120010000O 'IARkJA DE PIA,AS DE SOFA                                              15.00        4'.195  0.0140
130210)000 DIS ,L.aSs r EZTFAC'0S VEGETALES                                       15.00        42.7545  0.013e



-112-                                                     ANNEX 5
PA6' NY.    3                                                                                          Appendix   1
PRIICI.3ALES POSICIONES SEUIIN CONTRIIUCION AL ARANCEL                                      Table  4
PONOERADO
NMAIIKA    DESCRIPCION                                                      ARANCEL       IRPORT CONTRU!
DEr 755    ENE - S££  ARMNCEL
1992         1992  PONDER
1006310010 60A D                                                 EASCAR.D0fB0NE.CARARL0S.CAOC0LATNS.R£LEHS £N TABLEt  20.00  320072  0.013&
1515290000 ACEITE I rAiZ Y SUS FRACC REFIN SN NODIFIC QUINICAMENTE            20.00       3W87Mi 0.013i
2309909090                                                                    15.00       4026'5  0.0!30
1901101000 LECHE MODIFIC (rA TERNiZADA 0 AUNANIZADA   ACOlID VTA X <          20.00       301203  0.003,)
23099091                                                                       5.00 !  ,     S35 0.012?
1209?10000 SENILLAS gE L6EUMBRES Y HORTALIZAS ?ARA LA Sl"'iRA                  5.00      "171151  0.^12i
1520900000 DNS 6LICERINAS IHCiDA LA 6LICERIMA SINIETICA                       1'.0^       384M10  0.012
1601000000 ENBUTIDOS Y PRODS SIE.DE CAREJ.DESP0JE e DE SAN6RE                20.00        206967  0.0124
1505?01000 LANOLINA                                                           15.00       377144  0.0122
2009801990 DEMAS JUSOS DE FRUTAS SN FERRENTAR Y SN ALCOHOL                    20 S1       273998  0.011
2202900000 IRS BEPIDAS NO ALCONHOLICAS EXCP JUGOS D LA PARTIDA 20.0°          20.00       263289  0.0!14
2106901000 POLVOS P PREP 0 BUDINES CRENAM  PELADOS POSTRES 6ELATINAS SIM   15.00          342905  0.0111
2208100000 PREP ALCOHOLICAS CB1PUESTAS USADAS P ELABRAkC:ON DE BEBIDAS    '5.00           3401d' 0.0110
22083000.2  EHISKt £N OTROS ENVASES                                            -.00      1020656  0.0110
1803100000 PASTA DE CACAQ SN  ES&RASA£                                        *01.00      3297e  0.01C05
1904100000 PRODS. A BASE DE CERMALES INSUFlADOS 0 TOStADOS                    20ZO.00     239985  0.0!04
1901901000 EXiRACTO DE NALTA                                                  15.00       321922  0.0104
2302300000 SALVADOS Y ONE RESIDUOS DE TRIl6                                   15.00  .    36809  0.0103
1702309000 DENAS 6LUCOSAS SIN FRUCTOSA EN < 208 DE FRUCTOSA                   15.00       318935  0.0103
2106909010 PREP AlINENTICIOS P SUSTITUIR TOTALNENTE ALIMEUTACIQN HUNANA    5.00           904244  0.0102
2204299000 35i UIUDS N0 CONPRENDIDOS OTRAS POSICIONS                          20.00       233710  0.010Q
gtt Total Ut2
43804e417 14.3621



- 113
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
Experience with Bank Lending for
Agricultural Credit Proiects in Colombla
1.          The proposed project would be the fifth operation involving Bank
lending for agricultural credit in Colombia. The first three operations are
closed and fully disbursedt the First Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 624-CO) for US$17.0 million was implemented between June 1969 and
October 1975; the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1357-CO) for
US$64.0 million between April 1977 and December 1983; and the Third
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1737-CO) for US$20.0 million between
November 1979 and June 1986. The ongoing Agricultural Diversification Project
(Loan 2453-CO) was signed in September 1984; the loan closing date has been
extended to September 30, 1992. Also ongoing is the Caja Agraria
Institutional Development Project (Loan 2909-CO), approved in February 1988.
2.          The Borrower of the first loan was the Government of Colombia
which channeled the funds to INCORA, the Colombian Institute for Agrarian
Reform, under a subsidiary loan agreement. The funds were used for supervised
credit directed to beneficiaries of the agrarian reform, mainly for
investments in agricultural production. The project proved to be a successful
vehicle for transferring funds to the target group of farmers. The number of
beneficiaries exceeded the appraisal projections by 152. The development
impact, however, remained unclear as there was limited information or
monitoring during project implementation. After project completion INCORA
prepared a detailed study of the financial performance of a small sample
comprising 89 out of the 1,124 farms which had benefitted from the project.
Based on this study the estimated economic rate of return of the project was
25X9 as projected at appraisal.
3.          The second loan was made to the Banco de la Republic. (BR) to
increase its resources for lending through its rediscount facility EVAP, to
expand food production and agroindustrial capacity. Tventy five percent of
the Bank funds were earmarked for lending to small farmers, who had
difficulties in obtaining credit from the financial institutions.  While the
project's physical targets wer met, the main issue highlighted in the
appraisal report was not resolved, i.e., the subsidized interest rates of
PPAP which led to distortions in the financial sector and to the
substitution/diversion of funds. The completion report concluded that the
underlying macroeconomia constraints could not be addressed solely through a
single operation, but should be dealt with in a wider financial sector
context.
4.          The third loan was a follow-up operation on the first loan, with
the same objectives and beneftciaries, but with INCORA as borrower. The
completion report states that the project's objectives were attained.



- 114 -
ANNX 6
Page 2 of 3
However, the assumption that agrarian reform beneficiaries would be weaned
from INCORA credit after these two operations were completed, did not
materialize. Also, the high proportion of short-term borrowing indicated that
farmers either remained in a precarious financial situation, or substituted
their own resources with cheaper INCORA funds. Here again, the problem of
subsidized interest rates was raised in the completion report.
5.          These three agricultural credit projects enabled the Bank to learn
about the legal and administrative systems operating in the agricultural and
credit sectors, particularly the strengths and weaknesses of the different
public sector institutions, and the response of agricultural producers to
different government directed credit schemes. Many of the problems
encountered in these agricultural credit projects mirrored the issues often
associated with investment projects executed by public sector institutions,
such as, institutional instability, frequent changes in policies and key
personnel, poor accounting and monitoring capabilities, and underfunding.
Some of the problems were related to inadequate macroeconomic and financial
sector policies, among which the most important were the subsidized interest
rates applied by PFAP, and the forced investments imposed on the banking
system to generate PFAP's lending resources.
6.          During the preparation and appraisal of the Agricultural
Diversification Project (Loan 2453-CO), the Bank took the above lessons into
consideration by: (i) choosing one of the more efficient implementing
agencies in the private sector, the Federation of Coffee Growers (FEDERACAJE);
and (ii) providing for a half-yearly review of interest rates. The interest
rates applied were those of FlAP, which at the time of appraisal were positive
(22Z average compared to an inflation of 17.5Z).  With the surge of inflation
in 1986-87, FlAP rates turned negative in real terms and the disparity with
market rates increased. FPAP increased its rates slightly every year, but
FEDERACAFE maintained its low rate of 22X during the first four years of
project implementation, claiming that an incentive was needed to induce
farmers to diversify agricultural production in coffee areas. The Bank
exerted pressure on the borrower to update its rates to at least FlAP levels,
but FEDERACAPE resisted these pressures on the ground that its rates were
consistent with those practiced in the coffee sector (which were then highly
subsidized). Only in 1990, and following Bank threats to stop disbursements
on those loans granted with rates lower than IPAP's, PEDERACAPE adjusted its
rates to those of FPAP for all lending under the project.
7.          Loan 2453-CO was geared to farmers in the coffee growing areas.
Thnere was still the need to provide additional resources for farmers in other
areas of the country, particularly small farmers, and in mid-1986 the Bank and
the Government were exploring the possibility of processing another loan of
betweon US$150 and US$200 million to be channelled to Caja Agraria. This
operation would have included a component for the institutional strengthening
of Caja Agraria, which had operational losses, very high personnel and
oporating costa, poor reporting records particularly in the branches outside
Bogota, and highly qualified audits of its financial statements. The
conditionality onsidered by the Bank for the new loan included administrative



- 115 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
reform and cost-cutting by Caja Agraria, and commitment by the Government to
address the distortions created by inter alia subsidized interest rates.  The
Rural Financial Markets StudyV', prepared by the Bank in 1986, recommended
the following Government actionss  (i) the freezing of forced Investments at
their existing level.; (ii) raising FFAP interest rates to be positive in real
terms; and (iii) progressively align the rates with -uarket livels. While
sharing the Bank's views on the reforms needed in the credit sector, the
Government accepted the freezing of forced investments in 1988, but was not
prepared to change the agricultural interest rates until it had designed a
comprehensive reform of the financial sector. Eventually, the Caja Agraria
project was limited to administrative reforms, and Loan 2909-CO Was approved
in February 1988 to finance the Caja Agraria Institutional Development
Project, in the amount of US$15 million. But Caja's operating costs remained
high and its management was unable to reduce staff. Therefore, the
performance targets established under the project were not achieved, although
Caja manipulated the financial results (by underprovisioning pension
liabilities and bad debts) to conceal this fact. This was, however,
subsequently noticed by the Superintendency of Banks and corrective measures
were ordered. This in turn led the Bank in mid-1991 to consider suspension of
disbursements, but it was decided to address Caja's problems in the context of
the proposed Agricultural Sector Credit Project. Likewise, a request from the
Coffee Federation for a follow-up loan to the Agricultural Diversification
Project was subsumed within the proposed Agricultural Sector Credit Project.
8.          With the surge of inflation in 1986-1987, FFAP rates turned
negative in real terms and their disparity with market rates Increased. While
maintaining the forced investment system, the Government changed in 1988 the
determination of FFAP lending rates, by tying them to DTF.1Y It maintained,
however, the interest rate subsidy by setting rates for small farmers at five
percentage points lower than DTP. In addition, the cost of funds for large
farmers, who paid interest at the full DTF rate, remained about ten percentage
points below market rates. In 1989, FlAP reduced marginally the subsidies by
increasing aall farmer rates to DTF-4, and those applied to large farmers to
DTF+1. Additional progress was achieved in the context of the ENP (para. 2.5
of Main Text) and under the 1991 Financial Policy Framework. Under the policy
reforms both forced investments and subsidized interest rates would be
progressively phased out. The reform program in the agricultural credit
sector is the main focus of the proposed Agricultural Sector Credit Project.
J \Co1XaURl
I/    Report No. 5860-CO, dated February 13, 1986 (Green Cover Only).
V     The DTF rate Is determined at loan signature for a six-month period, at
the end of which interest payment becomes due; it is then adjusted for
the next six-months period to the DTF rate prevailing at the date of
payment.



- 116 -
Annex 7
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT STATISTICS
Table 1: Bankine Sector Lending to Agriculture. 1986-1988
(in current Col$ thousand million)
,fi..  ...... ;.   ...... ................:  i.i.-1
.:.':'':.:.:,,,~.. ...... ...... ,''"'''AB
~~~~~~~~~~~                      .. .. W0.                  4                          X~
3.':,. ... . ....,...                 2                _
(1)  FlAP Reud -  c- f(7-2)                              4. . ...; ..........
--  -- -   -   - - ----' ..   .. . . .X.. . .
. .............g
5b) 'tIou4 i.cows Operatin.0 by Banke
1sn ~ ~ Tabl 2o   Totallur                          112in   t2 A82ulu.18
'?QtMl ~a~ik 1aiz4~us a    o~ total asr~c. 1an7n
O~~~~~ber bank.     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o4 4~~~~~~~~~~~, 300   Ilion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .... 
J~~~, ~~~~Iontbly Report, Decenbor *,990.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~':
No'~~~ tecen~~~ etatiatics are not a ~ ~ ~ ~~.       ..............
Table 2:   Total Lendinft to Africulture   1988~~~~~~~........
d.A  ~rit1   .d.o               ~       ~       ~       81 
Conuuercie,1 8azik~~~~ town ?e0oi~~wce... ......1... .
Ca~~~j. A~~~wax4.a (own meourcep)  191~~~~~~~~~~~.... .. .... .......
q ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     o,                     2.                  ,6.              0 
~~t    COI$ 4oxi~~~~~r~Tabedt 2 $ aTotal L vendig t  Ag~riculturae,    1988     ~



_ 117 -
ANNE1 7
Page 2
Table 3:  Agricultural Credit Provided urLder Rediscount Operations, 1988-1991
(in current Col$ thousand million)
|~~~~~~~~ F.i  *e=   - -f m F A                                   ,-a  
l98~                        1990          199~.
a * a a Acual a "       a



- 118 -
Page I of 2
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents in Proiect File
1.   Law 16 of January 22, 1990, creating FINAGRO (with English translation
of essential provieions)
2.   Resolution No. 77 of the Junta Monetaria of Banco de la Republica dated
December 28, 1990, regulating FINAGRO's financial operations
3.   Act 383 of January 21, 1991, establishing FINAGRO
4.   Fiduciary Agreement No. 729/100 with Banco de la Republica of
January 31, 1991, by which FINAGRO entrusted BR with the issue of its
Bonds
5.   Fiduciary Agreement No. 739/100 with Banco de la Republica of January
31, 1991, by which FINAGRO entrasted the management of its loan
portfolio to BR
6.   Certificate No. 16 of January 22, 1991, delivered by the
Superintendencia Bancaria, authorizing FINAGRO to operate as a financial
institution
7.   Decree No. 26 of January 8, 1991, publishing the Articles of Agreement
of FINAGRO
8.   FINAGRO - Agricultural Credit Policies for 1991
9.   FINAGRO - Yearly Report for 1991
10.  FINAGRO - Operational Budget and Credit Program for 1992
11. PINAGRO - Credit Manual
12. FINAGRO's Corporate Plan "The Role and Future of FINAGRO"
13. Working Paper of October 17, 1991, by A. Valdez (LATAG) on "The
Agricultural Trade and Pricing Reform in Agriculture in Colombia."
14. Resolution No. 28 of May 8, 1992, issued by the Junta Directiva of Banco
de la Republica changing the percentages of the banking sector's
deposits that have to be earmarked for agriculture
15. Resolution No. 2480 of June 19, 1992, from Superintendencia Bancaria
placing Caja Agraria under special supervision



- 119 -
ANNEX 8
Pare 2 of 2
16.  Caja Agraria's Corporate Plan as approved by its Junta Directiva on
October 20, 1992, and transmission letter of October 23, 1992
17. CONPES Resolution DNP-2627 of November 19, 1992, authorizing FINAGRO to
enter with IBRD into a Loan Agreement for US$250 Mn to finance the
agricultural sector



