: SvAA -S 7'- S~ GZ7- 
Dacuwmt (f
The World Bank
FOR OFFCaAL USE ONLY
t*'fC1.)Fli(>HE C,uPY
r f vE )r T. t4o : 1 - fc 3 :f  CO T(  y p e    P M
Title    AG1Q'ICULTlTrJRAL SEC'T IT C  i   F'F ;1
Auth, ;r:  Ei'SEPPFR bW N. P-5835-.
Ex:t. : :3.4Zb15. T,,r:  l b:1  11l2 Dept - 3ji.3k L .3C
UNORAMIO   AnD RECO_EDTION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THlE
INTERNhTI&L BAN  FOR REOONSTRJCTONO AND DEVELOPMT
TO THE
EXECUTV   DIRECTORS
ON A
PRPOSED WAN
IN a MOUNT EQUxIVAINT TO US$250 MILLIOK
TO THE
FUD IFOR       FINCING OF TH  AhUICULTURL  SECTOR - F GRO
FOR A
AGRCULTURAL SIeCTOR C        PROJECT
FEBRUARY 25, 1993
Tlis docnmet has a resicted disktibution and way be used by redpients only n the Pefomance of
their officiAl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank autbhorizatio.



5UNU }OUIVS
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (ol$)
Exchange Rate (1993)
uS$1.00 a 001$ 747
WEIGHUT AMD MEAAS
Metric System
EISCAL YRAR OF THU G0VERMINEN  OF COLOMBIA
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BR          -     Central Bank (Banco de la Rep6iblica)
CIAT        -     International Center for Tropical Agriculture
(Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical)
CNCA        -    National Commission for Agricultural Credit
(Comisi6n Nacional do Cr6dito Agropecuario)
DTF         -    Money Market Deposits (Dep6ditoe a T6rmino Fijo)
3MP         -     Economic Modernization Program
FEDERACAFE  -    National Federation of Colombian Coffee Growers
(F edoracion Nacional do Cafeteros de Colombia)
FFAP        -     The Agriculture and Livestock Financing Fund
(Fondo Financiero Agropecuario)
FINAGRO     -     Fund for Financing the Agricultural Sector
(Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario)
GDP         -    Gross Domestic Product
ICA         -     Colombian Agricultural Institute
-     (Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario)
IDEMA       -    Agricultural Marketing Institute
(Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuarlo)
IFI         -     Industrial Development Instltute
(Instituto de Fomento Industrial)
INCORA      -    Colombian Agrarian Reform InstLtute
(Instituto Oolomblano de Reforms Agraria)
HIMAT       -     Colomblan Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and
Land Preparation
(Instituto ColombLano do Hidrologla, Meteorologia y
AdecuaclOn de TLerras)
PFI         -     Partilcipating Financial Intermedlary
PROEXPO     -     Export Promotion Fund
(Pondo de Promoci6n de ExportacLones)
QR          -     Quantitative Restriction
SOB         -     Statement of Expenditure



Ii
'1                                                            VOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGtICllL 8 RzZIT
Loa and Prosect gummary
BogroMrs            P'und for the Financing of the Agricultural Sector -
FINGO.
6uzsantors          Republic of Colombia
Bnaficlgrita        Farmers, farmer groups and enterprises involved in
agricultural production and marketing.
Loan Amounts        US$250 million equivalent.
Ten2s0 tTo be repald in 17 year. including 4 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Onlendin= Term.s    FINAGRO would onlend the proceeds of the loan to
Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFF1), ln dollar.
and/or in pesos, and charge: (a) for peso loans, the
fully variable deposit rate of the Colombian banking
system (DTF), which is presently sufficient to cover
foreign exchange risk, the cross currency risk and
administrative costs; the rate will be monitored and
adjusted whenever the DTF is inadequate to cover the
above; and (b) for dollar loans, a rate reflecting at
least the Bank's Interest rate and commitment charge,
plus a fee to cover the cross currency risk and
administrative costs. The methodology to obtain these
two rates would be consistent with that of the BR for
determining its rediscount rate. Rblending rates would
be determined by the PPts according to maturity, credit
risk, operational costs and market conditions.
i±anBsin  Plans     Beneficiaries                 US$302.0 million
Financial Intermediaries     US$379.0 million
FINAGRO                      US$591.0 million
World Bank                    US$250.0 million
Total                      USS1.522.0 million
Rate of Return:     Subprojects under the project would require at least a
122 financial rate of return in real terms.
Staff ApDraisal
Reports             Report No. 10840-CO
.Pet               Not applicable
This document he a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the paformance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authodzation.



-2-
MEORANU  AND RIC        AT   OF THE PSIDENT
OF THE INT TON     A  FOR RE        TCONAND DEVELOPMT
TO TER MXECUTIM DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE FTMD FOR TUE FIRANCING OF TE AGRCULTURAL SECTOR (FINAGRO)
1OR AN AGRICMULTU     SEMCTOR CREDIT PROJECT
1*        T submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed loan to the Fund for the Financing of the
Agricultural Sector (FINAGRO), with the Guarantee of the Republic of Colombia,
for the equivalent of US$250 million to help finmace an Agricultural Sector
Credit Project. The loan would be at the rank's standard variable Interest
rate, with a maturity of 17 years, including four years of grace.
Part I. COUNTRY POLICIRS AIID DAN GROUP'S ASSISTAN1I  MSTMG
lRcent Performance
2,        Colombia has changed rapidly in the past two years. President
Gavirial's election in 1990 coincided with a referendum that approved changing
Colombia's Constitution. It also uarked the entry of a new generation in
Government. In its first 18 mothts, the administration gained wide support
for its bold policy initiatives and proved its ability to secttre the passage
of major legislation in Congress. This wso best exemplified by the
acceleration of economic reform In 1990-91.
Achievementst The Economic Modernization Proarram
3.        During the 1980. Colombia not only achieved one of the highest
growth rates in the region, but also the most stable growth path. This
performance masked structural deficiencies, however. The stagnant
productivity in most sectors suggests that the growth in output depended on
greater capital Inputs. Recognixzig that macroeconomic measures alone would
be insufficient to raise productivity In the long term, the Barco
administration launched in 1990 the Economic Modernization Program (EMP)--a
set of structural reforms and supporting macroeconomic policies to improve the
efficiency of resource allocation and use. On taking office, the Gaviria
administration asserted its comitment to the EM, and sharply accelerated the
program's isplementation.
4.        Trade Refo   The centerpiece of the RH? was a trade reform
progrm, which envisaged the gradual elimination of quantitative restrictions
(QRs) on manufactured imports and scheduled reductions in the levels and
dispersion of tariffs to reach an average tariff rate of 152 in 1994. Taking
advantage of a strong balance of payments, the Governrmt advanced the
timetable for implemetation. QRs on industrial imports--which formerly
covered 802 of domestic production--vere lifted ahead of schedule in November
1990. And in August 1991, the Goverament advanced the 1994 tariff targets for
imediate implemetation. The Governmnt also wet beyond the original scope



3
of the MP by extending trade liberalization to agriculture. The state
monopoly on Imports of key agricultural products Was eliminated and replaced
with a variable tariff scheme.  Progress in completing % regional trade
agreement under the Andean Pact has been slow, but Colombia and VenezueLa have
freed their bilateral trade and adopted common external tariffs. A free-trade
agreement between Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela is being negotiated and is
expected to be ready in early 1994. This my help lock in the liberal trade
policies of each of these countries.
5.        Cc=lgmingy Reforms.  To Improve resource mobility and facilitate
the supply response to the trade liberalization, reforms In the financial
sector authorized ownership of financial institutions by foreign investors and
free entry lato all segments of the market subject only to prudential
requirements. Access to foreign exchange was improved, and the Government
liberalized direct foreign investment. The labor regime was modified,
although perhaps not forcefully enough, to reduce labor rigidities and
facilitate industry restructuring. Reforms in the public sector were to
improve the efficiency and focus of public ependitures. Public monopolies
were eliminated In sectors critical to trade flows, including railways, ports,
shippitng, aud agricultural marketing. Most of the Goverment's non-oil
industrial holdings were divosted, as were three of the five banks
nationalized during the banking crisis of 1982-85, and further divestment is
underway. The intention to reorient the role of the state in a liberalized
economy as spelled out in the Government's 1990-94 Development Plan, which
emphasizes the social sectors, infrastructure, and environmental protection.
Economic Performance: 1990-91
6.        The macroeconomic policies accompanying the SMP were designed to
support the structural reforms while pursuitg stabilization--difficult since
the Government needed to adjust to rapidly changing domestic ano external
circumstances. The results, so far, have been mixed. In 1989-90, In
anticipation of the trado reform, the Goverment depreciated the real exchange
rate by 181. Nontraditional exports grew 24Z in 1990. Together with the
increase in oil prices and the expansion of petroleum exports, the current
account surplus in 1990 was equal to 1.51 of GDP. Exports contributed much to
the GDP growth of 4.12--accompanied, however, by a burst of inflation, which
reached a 15-year peak of 322 in 1990.
7.        In 1991 tho authorities tightened fiscal and credit policies to
reduce inflation. As onvisaged, the deficit of the non-financial public
sector was reduced from 0.81 of GDP In 1990 to 0.11 in 1991, and domostic
interest rates rose sharply. But this rise--combined with falling vorld
interest rates and a slower depreciation of the peso--widened the differential
between the returns on peso and dollar assets, encouraging strong capital
inflows partly fed by drug money. The capital inflows undermined the tight
monetary policy, strengthened the balance of payments, and resulted in an 8S
real appreciation of the peso during 1991. By accelerating teade
liberalization, the Government aimed tn reduce the growing external tibalance,
but success was limited as mports were slow to respond. The 12-month
inflation rate hovered around 30-312 during the first seven months of the



-4-
year, falling only to 27Z by year-end. Real GDP growth was relatively weak at
2.22 in 1991.
Recent Develonmentss 1992
8.        Economic growth accelerated in 1992 despite a crisis in the power
sector and increased insecurity due to political and drug-related violence.
GDP growth for 1992 is eatimated at 3.62, although inflation remained at about
252. A major new oil discovery In 1992 promises to have an Important impact
over the medium-ters.
9.        Power Sector Crisis. Despite its lomg financial crisis, the power
sector has traditionally provided depeadable service. This changed from
February 1992, when electricity rationing was implemented eight hours daily.
The main factor behind the rationing, despite apparent overcapacity in the
lUrgely hydro system, was a severe drought. But this alone would not have led
to rationing in the absence of deep Institutional flaws. These include
neglect in maintaining thermal plants, inadequate dispatching in 1991, when
cash-strapped utilities kept thermal plants idle and let reservoir levels fall
dangerously to achieve short-term fuel savings, and high electricity use due
to non-technical losses and underpricing of residential consumption. In
response to the crisis, the Government took steps to speed the completbon of
stalled public generation projects (mainly the Guavio dam) and has authorized
private investment in generation. Even so, large-scale rationing is expected
to last through early 1993, exacting a heavy toll on economic growth, living
conditions, and consumer and investor confidence.
10.       Insecurity. The Gaviria administration was credited for reducing
drug-related violence, anchoring the M-19 into the political ai4nstream and
initiating peace talks with other guerrilla groups. But there was little
progress in tbe talks as guerrilla groups escalated their demands for reversal
of the trade reform and full nationlization of the oil Industry and failed to
restrain their violent activities.  The talks broke in May 1992, leading to a
new wave of violence, and the Government opted for a military solution. The
embarrassing escape of Pablo Escobar in July 1992 further undermined the
GovernmentVo efforts to curb illegal activities and created new security
concerns.
11.       The Cusiana Oil Find. Exploratory work indicates that a large oil
deposit exists in the Cusiana area. Although reliable estimates of oil
reserves will be available only in 1993, industry analysts suggest figures
over 2 billion barrels--more than Colombia's current proven reserves of 1.8
billion barrels, and a jump in the country's oil potential. Increased
production would boost exports and fiscal revenues In th medium term,
allowing for a higher growth path, while putting continued pressure on the
real exchange rate and the competitiveness of non-oil tradables.
Medium-term Economic Prosoects
12.      With ample and diverse natural resources, moderate population
growth, a literate workforce, a resilient entrepreneurial class, and a



-5-
tradition of competent economic umagement, Colombia has strong potential for
sustaining growth end improvitg living conditions. The Cuolana oil find and
the structural reforms should put it on a faster growth path--oustained GDP
growth of more than 52 a year is vithin reach in the medium term. In this
century, Colombia can become a competitive upper-middle-income economy with a
fast growing service oector, a more selective but also more efficient and
outward-oriented manufacturing sector, and a strong export base. A leaner and
more focused public sector would sharply ticrease the attention to basic needs
and ensure that the poor have access to the opportunities of a growing
economy
13.       But Colombia must surmount major hurdles to fulfill its development
potential. To creata -supportive environment for private sector development,
the government should remove remaining distortions in the signals sent to
producers, overhaul regulations now irrelevant to the country's development
model, address infrastructure bottlenecks, upgrade the skills of the labor
force, and curb violene. The government also needs to strengthen its social
outreach to ensure that the poor share the benefits of development. And it
should put Incentives and controls in place to stem environmental degradation,
ensuring that growth is not achieved by running down Colombia's natural
assets. These priorities are clearly set forth in the government's
development plan, the Revoluci6n Pacifics. To deliver on the plan, the
government needs to upgrade the weak Institutional capacities in its line
agencies, make decentralization work, and enlist the private sector in the
provision of public services.
14. *n line with its development policy agenda, Colombia is expected to
consolidate the gains of the structural reform of the past two years and
accelerate the pace of economic growth. The strategy of private-sector-led
growth is expocted to change the structure of the Colombian economy in the
1990s. In response to the newly created incentive structure ard the
implementation of an appropriate regulatory framewurk, private investment is
projected to increase while the savings-investment balance for the private
sector shifts from a surplus to a deficit. This turnaround in the private
saving-investment balance is to accompany the steady reduction of the current
account surplus, and the increased space provided by the public sector as it
moves from a deficit to a surplus (Table 1). The private-soctor-led growth
model uses resources more efficiently, bringing the ICOR back to its levels
during the 1970s, and puts the economy on a 62 annual growth path between 1996
and 2001.



Tabb 1 - SeW  economic Indi tos  M-2001
P   saarekdedi
Red_    .. rates
GDP                                 2.2    3.6   5.0   6.0
GDP pe capi                         0.6    1.9   3.3   4.5
PriVt co_umpto per capia            0.1    2.0   2.6   5.0
Natinal aocouwt (as % of curra GDF)
GOs domeati wetmet                 16.1   17.8  21.0  223
Private invetmet                   10.2   113   12.9  14.2
Publio in_                          5.9    6.5   8.1   8.1
ICOR                                4.5    5.3   4.7   3.2
Savkinswvcbu balances& (as X of cuat GDP)
Pubc sectw                          0.5   -0.8  -03    13
Private setor                       5.4    3.4   1.6  -1.6
Crant account balance               5.9    2.6   1.2  .0.2
Crwd{ nss indicators
DOD/GDP                            40.6    3.0  29.4  15.8
DOD/oxpora                        168.6  17S.S  147.5  953
Toal deb servisqts                 35.2   37.6  30.6  16.7
Total interest/GDP                  3.3    2.6   2.6   1.4
iNflDon, YOa-rW                       26.8   25.1  22.0  14.0
IS Fue derved from RMM-X mdeL
(*) Growth rats for 1992 a early estimates.
Colomb4a's Exterxtl 3nvirorment
15*      External conditions should not be critical in determining Colombia's
economic prospects given its demonstrated ability to manage extenal shocks
and its strong balance of payments. Indeed, a temporary drop in oil price., a
rise in International interest rates, a falling US dollar, or a reversal of
capital flows would work in favor of reducing the short and medium term
balance of payments surpluses, softening the required stabilization effort. In
addition, structural changes in Colombia over the past few years should make
it les vulnerable to external shocks. Nontraditional exports now exceed
exports of any single commodity, lowering Colombia's vulnerability to
commodity price movements. The economy is also less vulnerable to Interest
rate hikes as the stock of debt falls. International reserves stand at over
nine month. of imports of goods and services, enough to cover negative
external shocks or reversals of capital flows for some time. But these
cushions cannot fully isolate Colombia's future growth path from the
influences of external factors. The international prices of coffee and oil



will be of particular importance. Other lements of the external environment
which could prove important are those related to direct foreign livestment,
regional trade agreements and the demand for illegal drug4.
16.     Colombia's depeodence oan  offee for c.port revenue has fallsn from
over half of total exports In the 1970s to lees than one fifth. Nowever,
fluctuations in International coffe prices still impose an important
adjustment burden on the economy through their fiscal impact and thei*
economic and social effects in the coffee-groving regions. Prospects for a
recovery in international coffee prices from their current low levels appear
very limited. Importing countries mnw hold large coffee stocks, growth in
world coffee consumption is slow, and a new International ooffee agreemant
does not appear likely any tie soon. In reaponee, coffee production in
Colombia is expected to decline from the current 17 sillion base per year to
15.5 million bags by the late 90's. In contrast, Colombian petroleum xports
are expected to more then double in the next five years, as the recently-
discovered reserves in Cusiana are brought into production. As oil exports
grow snd the economy adjusts to the new foreign ez=hawge earnings,
fluctuations in International oil prices will have increasing effects on both
the balance of payments and on the consolidated fiscal deficit throuBh the
surpluses and defilcits of the public petroleum company.
17.     Direct foreign investment (DII) is epected to cover about half of
required net capital flows in the coming years, with the balance coming about
equally from commerial banks and supplflers' credit, and official multilateral
and bilateral lending. Even though there has been an increase In foreign
investment, as a result of the Government's efforts to liberalize Its DPI
legal framework and offer oubstantial parity in the treatment given to
domestic and foreig inv estment, most of the Increase in DPI in the near
future is expected to be in the traditional extractive industries (coal and
petroleum). Foreign investment in other sectors may be constrained by
security concerns.
18.     The structure of production and trade will continue to change as the
result of the trade liberalization program begun in 1990 and the regional
trade agreements that Colombia is negotiating with Its neighbors. Early in
1992 Colombia signed a bilateral agroement with Venezuela opening up trade
between the two countries and adopting common external tariffs. The volume
and diversification of Colombian exports to Venezuela have risen dramatically,
and Colombia has received lncreasing volumes of Venezuelan foreign investment,
particularly in the financial sector. Although progress in completing a trade
agreement under the Andean Pact has been slow, agreement on a common external
tariff between Colombia, Venezuela, Bolivia aud Ecuador is expected by
September 1993. Colombia is also conducting bilateral trade negotiations with
Mexico and Chile.
19.     The demand for illegal drug exports has had and will continue to have
an effect on macroeconomic management. There can be little question that the
large capital inflows observed in the last two years were fed in part by drug
money, in response to both financial incentives in Colombia and to more
forceful pursuit of drug-related f4tancial assets by U.S. authorities. As to



tho future, the volume of Illicit activity in Colombia will continue to be
influenced by drug policies In other countries, particularly the United
States. On the one hand, stricter enforcement of anti-drug lave could reduce
the demand for drugs from Colombial on the other, stronger surveillance of the
drug cartel's cepital asoets hold outside Colombia w3uld Increase the share of
drug revenues which flow into the country.
The Bank's Country Asoistance Stratege
ColmbAtoDeve1o'Duent AResda
20.     Although its medium-term economic prospects are favorable, Colombia
still faces important challenges to fulfill its development potential. To
create a supportive environment for private sector development, the Government
should remove remaining distortions in the signals sent to producers, overhaul
regulations now irrelevant to the country's development model, address
infrastructure bottlenecks, upgrade the skills of the labor force, and curb
violence. The Government also needs to strengthen its social outreach to
ensure that the poor share the benefits of development. And it should put
incentives and controls in place to stem environmental degradation, ensuring
that growth is not achieved by running down Colombia's natural assets. These
priorities are clearly set forth in the Government's development plan, "La
Revolucifn Pacifics." To deliver on the plan, the Government needs to upgrade
the weok institutional capacities in its line agencies, make decentralization
work, and enlist the private sector in the provision of public services.
Areas for Action
21.      Resource Allocation. Efficient resource allocation based on clear
price signals should be the basis for Colombia's output and income growth.
The recent liberalization of trade, finance, and foreign investment have
removed the main distortions that for many years have bent resource use. But
significant work remains. In the financial sector, forced ivestments have
been reduced and their returns are being brought gradually closer to market
levels. In trade, the tax reimbursement scheme for exports includes a subsidy
element for Government-picked priority sectors or export destinations. Major
price distortions persist for publicly managed goods including fossil fuels,
electricity and water. Continuing progress in these areas will directly
improve allocative efficiency and--perhaps more important--convince producers
of the Government's resolve to refrain from future tampering with markets.
Just as critical will be the Government's commitment to maintain a sound
fiscal stance--to leave space for private inavestment and curb price
uncertainty as3ociated with high inflation. The Government will need to rein
in current expenditures, curb tax evasion, phase out subsidies to utilities
and fossil fuels, and depart from a pattern of wasteful major projects that
dragged dow economy-wide returns on investment in the 1980s.



22.      ReiUlations and regulatorv bodies, built f6r a dirigiste state in a
protected economy, are largely irrelevant to Colombla's new development model.
Colombia not only needs less regulation; It need. a different sort of
regulation to foster competition. For instance, tlght control have stifled
the volume and diveraity of instrumvnts in the securities markuts but failed
to curb insider trading or foster transparent disclosure. Policy change can
be fast, but the detalled design and implementation of a market-friendly.
regulatory environment requires time-consuming efforts. Priority areas to
ease the response of the productive sectors to the trade reform include the
capital markets, regulations for impoeting technology, and supervision of
utilities.
23.      Infrssru¢eure.lectricity rat±oning has broaght home the
importance of reliable utilities--and shown how far the sector has
deteriorated. Long-standing problems of efficiency and pricing in the water
supply end power sectors are due mainly to a tradition of management
Instability, political interference, soft budget constrainto In municipal
enterprises and inadequate national policies for pricint and utility
supervision.  A new regulatory environment is needed to shield utilities from
political interference, allow private entry, foster efficiency gains Ind
ensure that these gains benefit the users.
24.      The transport system has not kept pace with the growth of trade
flows, and a large share of production and consumption is in the central
regions of Colombia. Transport accounts for an average 302 of costs for the
main traded goods, against 10-20S in most countries, and surveys of exporters
cite Improved infrastructure as their highest stated priority for Government
support. In addition to completing the privatisation of ports, ths Government
needs to address shortfalls in the funding, timeliness, and quality of
maintenance of primary highways. Another challenge is to carry out in an
orderly fashion the proposed decentralization of regional and feeder roads,
critical for reducing food costs and raising farm income. Sustainable
irrigation systems, with greater user involvement in investment decisions and
management, are also needed to Increase productivity in agriculture. The
Governrment has yet to develop an agenda to address large-city congestion,
which hinders efficiency in an increasingly urban economy.
25.      Sk1ls.  The Government needs to step up its human resource
development effort and build the skills and aptitudes needed to fuel a
changing economy. Workers in industry and agriculture need new skills to meet
the challenge of international competition. The average schooling of the
Colombian labor force (about 6 years) compares favorably with regional and
country income group averages--but is still a far cry from the fast-growing
Asian countries (9-10 years). Education expenditures have declined in the
late 1980s--they are ncw lower than regional comparators, and their non-wage
component is only a fraction of the needs* Priorities are to achieve
universal coverage and a better quslity of primary education, expand and
improve secondary education, ensure timely retraining of workers to reduce the
social costs of industry restructuring, and develop training of farmers and
extension services to ease adjustment to the liberalisation of agricultural
trade.



.,                 ~~~~~- 19 w
26.      Reachina the Poor.  The poor will not share in the benefits of
growth, or contriluto to it, unless they are healthy and educated enough to
take advantage of new ecnoumta opportunities. 'Colombia has reduced poverty
steadily over the last three decade.. Solid economic growth, a drop in
population growth, and expanded eoverage of water supply, health care, and
primary education have produced sharp improvemento in infant mortality, life
expectancy, and literacy. These indicators are now better than regional or
country income group comparators. But disparities in incomes, wealth, and
living standards between regions and socioeconomic groups are striking and
contribute to social disintegration.
27.      Social expenditures have stagnated in the 1980. as a proportion of
GDP and have declined as a proportion of public expenditures. Service
deficits remain high (25Z of the population lack access to basic health care,
272 to safe water). The positive trends of service coverage indicators often
mask serious siortfalls in service quality and efficiency--most water
treatment systems are in disrepair or poorly operated, and the high enrollment
ratio in primary schools partly reflects a high repetition rate. In some
areas, targeting remains poor--over one half of public spending for health
goes to a health insurance scheme which covers only onQ-fifth of the
population and mostly benefits the middle-income group. And a new challenge
is to address the social costs of the economic reforms, especially in already
poor rural area where marginal crop production may be displaced by the
liberalixation of agricultural trade.
28.      Progress in social outreach requires a change in delivery modes to
expsnd service coverage while improving equity, efficiency and service
quality. The Government plans to pursue these objct::ves ln three main ways.
It will increase social spending and concentrate tmat spending on basic
services and programs selected for their impact on the very poor. It will
improve responsiveness to local t-geds through decentralixation. And it will
improve efficiency and user choice by promoting private delivery of services
and replacing subsidies to service producers with targeted grants to eligible
beneficiaries. But it has yet to pin down the specifies for implementing
these policies. The risks are that social programs could be stalled or
derailed by weak administrative capacities In central aud local Government
agencies--or that they could, as in 1991, bear the brunt of fiscal
contraction.
29.      The xMiroment. Capacities for environmental mangement are week,
and past policies for pricing natural resources, infrastructure  development,
and the titling of new land have encouraged environmental damage.
Environmental awareness has grown in the past few years, however, and the new
Constitution inlludes environmental management among the main duties of the
state. The Government has launched programs to strengthen park and watershed
management, promote reforestation, and make environmental assessments
mandatory for all major livestments. It intends to unite the previously
dispersed responsibilities for environmental protection under a new muinistry.
But developlig effective environmental management capabilities will be a
long-term undertaking. In the short term, the Government should design ways
for the new ministry to relay its action through regional agencies, local



- 11 -
goverments, and market incentives. It should set priorities among
eavironmental objectives (managing water and protecting biodiversity should be
high on the agenda) and integrate its environmental agenda with sectoral
strategies for energy, mining, agriculture, Industry, and infrastructure.
Institutional Agenda
30.      Implementation Canacities.  The development plan presents a clear
analysis of the main challenges ahead and outline, a coherent set of policies
to steer Colombia to a course of sustainable growth with equity. Colombia
has, however, been characterized by a growing "implementation gap" between
policy formulation and results, best evidenced by the delays in key reform and
investment programs of the development plan. Bridging this gap will require a
major overhaul in the Way Government works. Accountability and efficiency
must be established to stem the cost of Government and most of aLl to deliver
the public goods that entrepreneurs and the poor need. Reforms are under way
for key Government processes ineluding financial managment and procurement,
but considerable work is needed on procedures, skills and information systems
to make these changes operational. A priority Is to set up monitoring systems
so that Government agencies account for how they spend and for the
developmental output they produce. Another Is to upgrade tax administration
to ensure that the Government can provide timely fundin3 for its programs
without incurring large deficits.
31.      Mbnazing Decentralization. Following the Constitutional mandate, the
development plan relies on subnational governments to perform key functions in
its programs for human resource development, infrastructure, and the
environment. The risks of this reliance are best evidenced by Colombia's
experience in decentralizing urban infrastructure in the 1980s. Investment
picked up, and the relevance to local needs improved. But the weak management
of many local governments detracted from efficiency, sustainability, and
targeting in the services decentralized. The Government has learned from
this. The decentralization of urban infrastructure may have been a
free-for-all, but the Government intends to make the devolution of regional
roads, health, and education a more managed process.
32.      The Government's decentralization strategy has four key features.
One is to design incentives (revenue-sharing, matching grants) for local
governments to support national policies. The second is to start by ref .:Aing
sector agencies in central goverment and atrengthening regional agencies
(largely bypassed in the 80's) that will in turn advise local governments.
The third is to decentralize gradually, by requiring departments and
municipalities *o meet minimal criteria before they graduate Into the
devolution process.  The fourth is to match devolution with a greater
account bility by monitoring pe-rformance and attaching stringe, including the
Capacit. to Intervene non-performing local governments or withhold transfers
from them. Still, major work is needed to pin down the implementation details
of these measures, and doubts surround the operational design of the revenue-



- 12 -
sharing arrangements being proposed. The higa turnover of local governments
may frustrate capacity building efforts in many constituencies, and the risks
of sloth or waste in local investment are daunting. Strengthening local
governments is a long-term undertaking, and the ambitious targets of the
Revoluci¢n Pacific& may need to be revised downward.
33.      Contestabilitv and user voice in public servieis should be the main
tools to achieve the institutional objectives of the development plan. In
some areas privatization of infrastructure is the most promising way to get
around the inefficiencies of public monopoly. The Government should pursue
its plans for encouraging private participation in tha power sector, promoting
competitive tendering of water service concessions, devolving irrigation
districts to water user associations, and replacing or complementing public
provision with targeted dmand-side subsidies (e.g., secondary education
vouchers, prepaid health care) to inprove user choice and reduce dead weight
in social spending. In services for which competition is not possible,
accountability to users should be fostered. This requires greater community
involvement in planning and monitoring services and publicizing an agency's
performance indicators.
Pro osed Bank Assistance
A Chanaina Role for the Bank
34.      The Bank has supported many sectors of Colombia's development, but
the thrust of its assistance effort in the 1980s and early 1990s was to
establish a policy environment supportive of long-term growth. This Is
largely done, and the Bank has played a part through its timely amalytical
work, advice, and lending. Policy change in the past two years has exceeded
the Bank's expectations--but institutional reforms have been slower, and week
project design and implementation capacities have constrained new lending and
disbursements   In designitg a Bank strategy responsive to the next stage in
Colombia's development, we recognize four key factors: the progress in the
structural reforms, the strong external position, the adoption of a coherent
medium-term development agenda, and the weak implementstion record.
* Consolidating the structural reforms remains a key to Colombia's
development, but the progress achieved warrants a greater emphasis
than in the past on other constraints that are becoming binding: an
obsolete regulatory environment, human resource gsaps, inequity and
social unrest, infrastructure bottlenecks, threats to the natural
asset base, and weak public sector agencies. Sound policies have
been formulated to address these issues. The challenge will be to
help the Government bridge a growing gap between policy formulation
and implementation.
* Colombia's creditworthines could support a large program, but
transferring resources will not be an important objective given the
country's strong external and fiscal position. Even though the
Government has been prepaying Bank debt, it has asked the Bank to



- 13 -
maantain a strong lending program-not primarily for financial
reaons, but to ensure that its sectoral reforms and priority
projects are woll designed and that implementing agencies are subject
to greater discipline. The value added of Bank involvement wll thus
hinge on its ability to mobilize outside expertise, help the
Government design its sectoral policies, and provide continuity and
structure in the lmplementation of Investment projects.
Obletives and Comnosition
35.      Program Obiecti-es * The Bank supports the Government's development
plan as   well-conceived effort to steer Colombia to a course of sustainable
growth with quity. The program objectives are to help the Government
consolidate and deepen its structural reforms, support private-sector-led
growth by improving the skills of the labor force and ensuring efficient
provision of infrastructure and utility services, Improve the delivery of
basic services so that the poor participate in the benefits of growth, start
addressing the degradation of the natural resource base, and build
institutional capacities.
36.      Comyosition.  In volume, past lending has emphasized policy-based
loans, credit to the private sector, and power sector investment. This will
shift toward a greater participation of human resource development,
infrastructure, institutional development, and natural resource management.
The proposed lending program includes four broad components:
* Private 8ector Develovment (402). Lending proposed for FY93-94 involves
operations with a strong trade and financial sector policy content,
geared at deepening and locking in the structural reforms   The
Agricultural Sector Credit Project is among this group of operations.
Subsequent lending will focus on providing indirect support to the
private sector by helping the Government Improve the regulatory
environment, especially in the capital markets, develop human resources,
facilitate technology transfer in both agriculture and industry, improve
the pension system, and strengthen public sector mangament. Projects
considered include Fiauncial Markets, Secondary Education and Technical
Assistance on Public Sector Financial Management.
* nfirstructure (27%). An important component of the lending program
will focus on the improvement of physical infrastructure, an essential
ingredient in the private sector development effort. Operations in this
category respond to the need to reform and expand utilities, and upgrade
urban and regional infrastructure. A Private Sector Energy Development
Project, for example, envisages the use of innovative lnstruments to
facilitate private sector involvement in power generation.
* Pvgytz. AlleviAation (23Z). This component aims to reach the poor by
expanding the coverage and improving the delivery of basic services--
including primary health care, child care, primary education, and water
supply. Bank assistance will be geared at ensuring that local



- 14 _
governmento are provided with appropriate Incentives and support to
discharge their expanded role in the social sectors. Primry Education
Expansion It is among the projects being developed.
*  E nironment-kl Haement (10). The main theme of our environmental
work in Colombia will be water resource management. This thee is
consistent with the watershed-based organization of regional EPA's in
Colombia, and a high priority for the Government in the context of
hydropower shortage and severe pollution of major waterways.
Vehicles for Bank Assistance
37.       Proiect vehicleo will mainly include sector investment loans
conditional on progress of sector reforms and supporting a time-slice or
subset of Government investments In the sector. In the context of
decentralization, loans for infrastructure, rural development, and the social
sectors will channel funds through national agencies for subprojects
implemented by regional and local governments. Funding arrangements through
conditional credit or matching grants will be designed to promote equity,
efficiency and sound financial management. Our lending should recognize sharp
disparities In institutional capacity amnmg subnational governments. Up-front
eligibility criteria for investment subprojects will cowcentrate our
assistance on capable local agencies. But this could detract from equity as
the poorest constituencies tend to be also the weakest--hence the need to use
regional relays, provide vigorous outreach to help weaker agencies graduate
into our programs, and use new delivery modes including NCO and private sector
participation. A key will be to continue strengthening the capacity of
national intermediaries (e.g., DRI Fund, FIEDETER) to leverage Bank advice and
supervision.
38.       Financina Private lector Develoiment. The Bank will concentrate its
private sector development effort on indirect measures aimed at improving the
social, physical, and regulatory infrastructure. Financial market failures
and the need to transfer resources to the private sector are expected to
decline, as is the volume of Bank-financed credit operations. The on-lending
terms of Bank funds will continue to reflect scarcity and signal the
last-resort nature of these resources to avoid stifling commercial
alternatives, including the IFC. The Bank will also lend for public assets
operated by private firms In natural monopolies, such as distribution networks
in utilities.
39.       Portfolio management will have priority in allocating our resources.
In recent years implementation of the existing loan portfolio has not met
expectations. Problems include weak or uncommitted Implementing institutions,
shortage of counterpart funds In some cases, poor financial management, and
procurement delays. Projects in infrastructure and irrigation have been most
problematic. Disbursements during FY90-92 averaged 262 of undisbursed
balances. Given these problems, success in turning around a weak portfolio
will be a gauge of our ability to enhance quality, which is central to the
proposed strategy. The Department has started to leverage its supervision



- 15 -
resources by expanding the role of the resident mission which has hired long-
term local consultant.  Core ministries are also involved in supervision
under performance contracts with project agencies. Lessons from experience
are incorporated in project and program design. Programming missions are
linked to implementation reviews, and new lending to achievement in existing
projects. For instance, new lending for irrigation will be considered only
after existing problem projects in the sector are restructured and their cost
recovery issues addressed. Up-front conditions are being used to secure
institutional reforms early, test borrower commitment to reforms, and
concentrate our lending on capable Institutions. The Department recognizes
that the Bank's operational emphases cannot be all pursued in each project,
and encourages task managers to streamline project focus and design. And
projects and the londing program are kept to a size consistent with the
absorptive capacity of Implementing agencies.
40.       HMnadin  Tecbnical Assistance. With a major institutional
re-mapping under way and severe capacity gaps, the needs for institutional
development te¢hnical assistance (IDTA) are buge. The Government's interest
for Bank involvement in IDTA has also sharply increased In the past two years.
IDTA is resource-intensive, however, and we need to concentrate our inputs on
key bottlenecks. Bank-supported IDTh will include designing regulatory
reforms to support private sector development (eg. capital markets, power
sector restructuring) and improving core Government processes, especially
flnancial management, performance monitoring, and tax administration. It will
also support decentralization.
41.       Decentralization-related IDTA is the riskiest, most complex lement
given the many agencies involved. Three guiding principles will help make it
manageable and effective. First, all IDTA programs should have monitorable
outputs and specific agreed targets. Second, the Bank will leverage its IDTA
by concentrating it on central and regional Government agencies, which will in
turn assist municipalities. And third, this assistance will complement, not
replace, the hard incentives provided to local governments--through
revenue-sharing, project financing arrangements, and the accountability to
users. That accountability involves user voice (e.g., involving school
councils in education planning), user choice (e.g., education vouchers), and
user information (e.8g, publishing performance indicators).
42.       Economic and Sector Work and Policy Dialosue   The Department will
maintain a strong policy advice capability to assist the Government in
consolidating and deepening the structural reforms. Emphasis will be on the
regulatory environment for private sector development, the corresponding role
of the financial sector, and the level, efficiency and targeting of public
expenditures. A CEU/Public Sector Expenditure Review, a Private Sector
Assessment and a Poverty Assessment will be the main instruments for policy
dialogue in 1994 with the incoming administration. Sector work will be geared
at starting projects on a sound analytical footing and building up our
pipeline. Areas of emphssis will include natural resource management, poverty
alleviation, and operational consequences of decentralization.



-16 _
43.       ITC. The IPC is playing an important role In Colombia. Its project
pipeline Includes lending of about US$140 million in 1Y93 as well as an
international equity Issue. The INC does not currently face exposure
constraints in Colombia. The Corporation's strategy is to help with the
Industrial rebuilding of large and medium-sized companies. The IPC is active
in attracting foreign capital and technology to the oil and coal sectors. It
is assisting in the privatization of infrastructure and financing of projects
in power generation, telecomunications, 8as pipelines, and ports. In
addition, the Corporation is trying to bring premier Colombian companies to
the international loan syndication, bond, and equity markets.
44.       Donor-Coordlntlon. A main objective in donor coordintion is to
maintain consistency and work-sharing, mainly with the IDB, which has
programmed lending of about US$400 million a year in PY93-96.  The IHF has no
program in Colombia, but is currently doing bi-annual consultations with Bank
participation, as provided under the Bank's on-going Public Sector Reform
Loan. We will continue to help Colombia mobilize concessional resources (such
as those of the JGF and GEP) to help build our lending pipeline and promote
innovative or global programs.
frfrm Sim
45.       Lending volumes will be subject to continuity in the structural
reforms, the pace of the sector reforms needed to make project benefits
sustainable, and project-specific conditions. Financial sector loans will
continue to be linked to maintenance of the trade reform and iplementation of
an agreed Financial Policy Frsamework. Loans for power and water hinge On
reforms to improve contestability, efficiency, and pricing !a these sectors.
Highways lending is subject to continued progress on fuel pricing, and two
urban infrastructure loans depend on a financial adjustment of the Bogota
District and its vater company. We do not foresee the use of program-wide
triggers, but consistent lack of progress In reforming the key sectors
considered would likely result in lower lending levels.
46.       Steady progress in all the above sectors would result in lending of
about US$1.7 billion in 17 loaus during PY93-96--or about US$425 million per
year. We see this amount as a maximum, as Colombia's external position rules
out adjustment lending, and higher volumes of investment lending would likely
conflict with quality objectives given the weak absorptive capacity of
agencies in the infrastructure and social sectors. It is likely that reforms
in some sectors or the preparation of some projects will be delayed;
considering individual sector and project risks, the expected value of our
lending is about US$325 million per year.
47.       IBRD exposure in Colombia has historically been high.  The ratio of
IBRD debt service to exports reached a peak of 7.91 percent in 1990. Taking
advantage of the capital inflows to reduce its external debt, the Government
recently prepaid US$230 million of Bank debt. Together with the projected
growth in exports, this is expected to put the ratio of IBRD debt service to
exports back below the 61 Bank guideline by 1996 even if lending reaches
US$1.7 billion during PY93-96. The ratio of preferred to total public debt



_ 17 -
service Is projected to incroase a. tho Government reduces its total borrowing
but elects (for developmental rather than financial reason.) to keep a strong
program with IDB and I9D. from a medium-term porspective, the risks to the
lank aro expected to decline due to improvements in overall debt service
indicators, the miniml financing needs of the Government, the maintenance of
negative net disbursements from IBRD during the next few years, sand Colombia'.
stronS foreign exchange position. Although tho downside risk of policy
slippage is low, constant monitoritg is required given the large debt owed by
Colombia to the Bank (US$3.4 billion at the and of PY92).
Part II.
48.      Amriclture and Aaricultural Credit Policy in Colombia.
Agriculture, fishing and forestry in Colombia account for about 222 of GDP.
The sector prowides employment for three million people, 302 of the labor
force, and contributes about two-thirds of merchandise exports. Of this,
coffee accounts for about 422 of agricultural exports value (in 1989:
US$1,586 million out of total agricultural ewports of US$2,482 million).
Coffee's contribution to the agricultural CDP is estimated at 122t other
permanent crops: 31S2  annual crops: 202; and livestocks 372.   Some
diversification has occurred within the non-coffee agricultural exports (e.g.,
flowrs and tropical fruits). Growth of agricultural GDP in Colombia, which
was good in the 1970-1980 period (sveraging about 4.52), elowed between 1980-
1985 to 1.12 p.a., but picked up again In 1986 to sbout 22 and 4.52 in 1987.
Between 1988 and 1990, the growth rate remained at about 3.52 p.a. In 1991
growth of the agricultural GDP again reached 4.62. The slowdown in the early
1980. was attributed to weakening demand for Colombia's non-coffee exports and
to the appreciation of the real exchange rate. It may also have reflected the
steady decline in public sector investment expenditure for agriculture during
the decade of the 1970s and early 1980s. The recovery in the late 1980s and
in 1991 is largely attributable to the impact of the macroeconomic reforms of
the mid-80s.
49.        The trade and pricing reforms in agriculture have greatly improved
the incentives to allocate resources efficiently and increase the production
of agricultural goods in which Colombia has a comparative advantage. Bence it
provides a good basis for the long-term efficient growth of the sector. QRs
have been replaced by a simplified and reduced number of tariffs (with the
average tariff rate declining to 152 in 1992, from 452 in 1990) for all
agricultural imports, except for wheat, and a price band system for imports of
a few sensitive commodities has been introduced, linking producer support
prices to international price movements. Complementary to the trade reforms
have been substantial improvements in the financial sector. The Government's
medium-term financial policy framework (1991-1994) was agreed with the Bank in
April 1991. It aims at expanding the use of market determined interest rates
within the financial system, phasing out subsidized directed credit and forced
investments, and adjusting the regulatory framework to promote competition.
The proposed loan is one of four sector-specific financial intermediation
loans covering industrial restructuring and development, restructuring and
divestiture of the Industrial Development Institute (IFI), trade reform and
export development, and agricultural sector credit, which have been under
consideration by the Bank since agreement was reached with Government on



- 18 -
financial policy reform. These loans, of which the Industrial Restructuring
and Development Project and tta IFI Restructuring and Divestiture Project,
have already been approved, are designed to ensure an adequate supply response
in the different sectors and a smooth transition to the new policy
environment.
50.       The Goveramont's strategy for the agricultural credit sector is to
reduce and, In the medium term, eliminate any remaining distortions. In 1994
Government intends tos (a) free final lending rates on credit refinnsced by
FINAGRO, the rediscount facility for the agriculture sector, except for credit
granted to a well-defined target group of small farmers; (b) bring
agricultural Interest rates to this target group to market-equivalent levels
(market passive rate plus a spread of six percentage poInts); and
(c) significantly reduce the dependence of the sector on resource mobilization
through forced investments, while redirecting PINAGRO's intervention to the
small farm sector and to medium- and long-term lending. FINAGRO'. role vould
thereby be narrowed to support those segments of the credit market where
private sector lending by commercial banks is Insufficient due to market
failures. Beyond 1994, subject to the evolution of commercial bank lending to
the agricultural sector, the move to a market-based agricultural credit system
would be completed by phasing out the remaining forced investment
requirements. The only exception would be for small farmers for whom interest
rates will continue to be administered to ensuro equity, but such rates would
notionally be set at market rates.
51.       Rationale for Bank nvLolvement. During the last two years, the Bank
has focused its policy dialogue with the Government on the medium-term
structural reform strategy to accelerate economic growth by raising the
efficiency of resource use. Through the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL), the
Bank is supporting the Government's overall effort to strengthen public sector
management, promote private sector development, and improve the allocation of
public sector resources. The ongoing Industrial Restructuring and Development
Project and the IPI Restructuring and Divestiture Project are assisting
Colombia to correct institutional and market imperfections in the financial
sector, to rationalize and limit future public sector livolvement in
industrial finance, and to facilitate the supply response in the industrial
sect ;.
52.       The proposed Agricultural Credit Sector Project would complement
these efforts by helping the Government Introduce and sustain financial and
trade policy changes in the agriculture sector, particularly through the
elimination of subsidized interest rates and directed lending. The projected
financing gap arising from the reduction In forced investments, and the
Increase in credit demand expected to result from the investment incentives
ensuing from the liberalized trade regime, will be partially met by first tier
commercial banks as interest rate and other policy measures are introduced
under the project. However, commercial banks in Colombia have been reluctant
in the past to commit their own resources for medium- and long-term
agricultural lending. Such credit is, however, essential for the adjustment
and expansion of agriculture in the contesxt of the trade and pricing reforms.
Hence, the proposed Bank loan would assist Government through a transition



_ 19 -
phbse by maintaining farmers' access to formal credit, while further
dismantling past distortions and discretionary mechanisms, and ensuring
delivery of market-based credit to the agricultural sector. Purthermore, by
leveraging FINAGRO'. lending towards the long term, the operation would
contribute to developing long-term lendtng mechanisms and promote commercial
bank lending to the agricultural sector. The proposed project would also help
the Government restructure, rationalize and recapitalize Caja Agraria, the
main bank serving the rural community and practically the sole provider of
small farmer credit. A Corporate Plan designed to make Caja leaner, more
efficient and viable has been agreed and would be implemented under the
project. Closing or privatising Caja is not feasible at this stage, since the
private banks are not yet prepared to enter into the small farmers segment of
the sector. On the other hand, Caja's operational inefficiencies, caused
mainly by high administrative costs and portfolio arrears must be corrected,
if a new cycle of losses and erosion of its capital base is to be avoided.
53.       Lessons from Previous Bank Exoerience.  The proposed sector strategy
and project have been designed both to reflect Bank experience with the
financial sector reform as well as lessons from previous Bank operations in
Colombia. Key aspects In the design of the project are: (i) an numbrella"
financial and agricultural sector policy framework has been agreed with
Government and provides a comprehensive medium-term strategy and reform
program; (Ui) market lending rates would be introduced with interest rate
limitations only for small farmers; and (iii) the restructuring plan for Caja
Agraria details specific actions and timing, as well as quantifiable
performance targets for monitoring implementation.
54.       Project Objectives.  The proposed project would, during a
transitional period of two years, help the Government adjust the provision of
agricultural credit to a market-based framework and facilitate the supply
response of the sector to the new trade policy environment. A related
objective is to transform Caja Agraria into an efficient rural financial
institution.
55.       Prolect Rescrintion.  The proposed project would include the
provision of US$250 million of loan funds to FINAGRO, with the Guarantee of
the Government of Colombia, to rediscount agricultural medium- and long-term
loans by Participating Fiancial Intermediaries (PIle). The project would be
carried out while the followlng takos place: (a) implemntation of policy
reforms aimed at alleviating the crowding-out of private sector lending to
agriculture through increasing interest rates to market levels and reducing
forced investment requirements credit demand and supply would be monltored to
ensure that tb. process of financial liberalization does not result in an
inefficient underallocation of real resources to the sector during the
transition period; and (b) implementation of structural and managerial changes
in Caja Agraria in line with a Corporate Plan comprising: changes In Caja's
managamnt and Board of Directors; reduction of operating losses through
closure of branches, staff and expenditure reductions and improved loan
collections; and a limited recapitalization through settlement by the
Government of outstanding debts to Caja. The continued implementation of
targets and indicators.  (In line with the Plan, Caja has already strengthened



- 20 -
msnagement and appointed two private-sector ambers to its Board, and
initiated the closure of agencies and the reduction of staff; Government, on
its side, has disbursed the 1992 installment of its recapitalization plan).
Project costs and the financing plan are presented in Schedule A. Retroactive
financing, in the amount of US$25 million equivalent would be provided for
rediscounts committed after July 1, 1992 to meet the financing shortfall
resulting from the reform program which has reduced PINAGRO*s resources.
56.       Project Imolemel tation.  The proposed Bank loan would be made at the
standard variable rate. FINAGRO would ensure the debt service on the loan,
including the standard Bank commitment fee, and bear the explicit risks of
interest rate .nd foreign exchange fluctuations and also the cross-currency
risk. FINAGRO would use the loan resources to rediscount =edium- and long-
term subloans, in US dollars and/or pesos, made by the participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs). Sub-loans granted by P11. would cover 802 of
investment costs, and FINAGRO vould rediscount no more than 80S of the amount
of these subloans. The rediscount rate would be: (a) for US dollar loans, the
full cost of Bank funds plus a margin to cover the cross-currency risk and the
cost of intermediation; and (b) for peso loans, the fully variable deposit
rate of the Colombian financial systam (DTF) plus, if needed, a margin to
cover the full cost of funds, currency risks and FINAGRO's intermediation
costs. The onlending rate to be charged by the PiIs would be the market rate
except for lending to small farmers, where, until a date not later than 9
months after loans effectiveness, onlending rates wmuld not exceed the
rediscount rate of FINAGRO plus six percentage points; thereafter this rate
will either be freed or otherwise adjusted to the Bank's satisfaction.
FINAGRO would sanage the project and monitor the overall performance of the
PPIl, as woll as supervise the use of project funds; FINAGRO has adequate
capacity to carry out these responsibilities. The Ministry of Pinance and
Public Credit and the Ministry of Agriculture would overview the project's
implementation on behalf of the Borrower, and especially the execution by Caja
Agraria of its Corporate Plan. The Superintendency of Banks would be
responsible for the financial monitoring of Caja's operations.  It would
also be responsible for ensuring 4reditworthiness and other eligibility
criteria for PMIs. A maid-term evaluation of the project would be carried out
as soon as the first US$100 mtllion of the loan funds are committed, but not
later than June 30, 1994. The review will covers 1i) the recommendations of
the credit demand and supply studies, as wall as the plan for their
implementation; (i) Caja Agraria's financial and operational performance
under its agreed Corporate Plan; and (iii) the status of Government's
agricultural trade regime. Commitment to finance new subloans would be
conditional upon concluding this review in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
After the review, backtracking in certain agreed trade policy reforms would
enable the Bank to interrupt approval -or authorization of subloans.
57.       *uviroroent Agaecs. An environmental certificate or assessment,
according to each case, would be required for subloans where environmental
risks exist. Such investments would includes (a) land clearing; (b) draitning
of wetland.; (c) aquaculture, coastal or marine investmentos (d) groundwater
pumping; (e) cattle ranch loans; (f) feedlot operations; and (g) agricultural
inputs manufacturing or outputs processing. FINAGROs Credit Manual includes



- 21 _
the procedures, guidelines and regulations for the enviroumental assessments
or certificates. These will be strengthened upon passage of the new
Environment Lw, expected sometime mid-1993.
Afreed Action.
5$.       Main actions agreed during negotiations are that the Government
woulds (i) free final lending rates on credit to other than small farmers
financed by PINAGRO with B Bond resources at a date not later than nine months
after loan effectivenesse (ii) ensure that the agreed mechanism for
calculating PINAGRO'I rediscount rate continues to be consistent with the one
applied by BR for other Bank lines of credit; (ifi) carry out, together with
the Bank, a mid-term evaluation of the project coverting the Issues In para. 56
above, not later than June 30, 1994 or as soon as US$100 million of loan funds
are committed; and (iv) cause Caja Agraris to meet the tey indicators of its
Corporate Plan. A satisfactory evaluation would be a condition of further
commitment of lank funds to finance subloans exceeding the said US$100
million. Agreements were also obtained that PINAGRO would: (1) use the
proceeds of the proposed loan exclusively to finance medium- and long-term
lending with the Bank disbursing 702 of the amounts rediscounted by PINAGRO
with the first US$100 million of Bank funds, and 553 thereafter; (ii) use loan
funds for rediscounting subloans by PPIs that meet criteria of
creditworthiness and comply with all pertinent regulations of the
Superintendency of Banks and have entered into a Subsidiary Participation
Agreement; (iII) ensure that loans and contracts over US$500,000 would be
submitted to the lank for prior review and approval; (iv) limit its operating
costs, Including depreciation, to no more than 12 of its average outstanding
not portfolio; and (v) submit to the Bank for comments, by November 30 of each
year, starting in November 1993, its program for lending and resource
mobilization in the following year. The 1993 program has already been
submitted.
59.      BJgfits.  The project would support Colombia's move from forced
investments, directed lendting and subsidized interest rates to market
determined resource mobilization and Interest rates in agriculture. The
proposed loan would help carry out policy and institutional reforms in the
agricultural financial sector, while minimiztng the risk of a financing gap
for term lending in the transition period. Insuring credit to agriculture at
a time of macroeconomic and trade policy reforms, would boost the chances that
a quick supply response will be realized, and that the reforms proposed for
the sector's credit policies and institutions will be implemented. The
project would also play a central role in moving private bankers more quickly
along the learning curve towards voluntary agricultural lending, leverage
FIRAGRO's rediscounting towards term lending, reduce the role of FINAGRO in
the sector, and restore Cajo's viability as a specialized rural financial
institution, primarily to serve small farmer credit needs. Given the absence
of major distortions In the Colombian economy, the project would be
economically viable, as all torm-londig would be for investments that have,
as a condition of rediscount by FINAGRO, a minimum financial rate of return of
122 in real terms.



- 22 -
60.       Risks. The main risk of the project is that Implementation of Caja
Agraria'. Corporate Plgn,  vell as the agricultural credit reform program
vill be delayed, or that thare will be backsliding in trade reform because of
the political sensitivity of same of the measures taken since 1991 or proposed
under the project. To lessen these risks, the project has front-loaded major
conditionality. It also prvides for recourse within the project In the case
of substantive backsliding in financial and trade reform, and has a built-in
aid-term project rev-.ev. More important, however, is the strong Govoroment
comitment and ownership of the Caja Agraria and financial sector and trade
reform programs  This is reflected in the Letter of Agricultural Credit
Policy and, in the cae9  of Caja Agraria, on the continuous monitoring to be
exercised by the Superintendency of Banks end PO6APIN, and on the leverage
available to the Ministry of Finance to condition disbursements of the
recapitalization funds for Caja to the satisfactory implementation of the
agreed restructuring measures.
61.       Recomndation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 23, 1993



- 23 -
,COL^OlIBI
At2RICLSAhAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
gstuiated Cost and tinancinm Plan
Local       Pgre{n       Total       X
Beneficiaras.           302.0           -          302       20
Pinuanclal -
Intermediaries        379.0           -         379        25
PINAGRO                 445.3         145.7        591       39
World Bank                 -          25O.0        Z25       a
Total          1,126.3          395.7     1,522       100
tiatedU-----------------IBRD Fiscal Year---------------
Di8bursemeuts      1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998   1999
Anuual            25.0   10.0   70.0   70.0   50.0  15.0  10.0
Cumulative        25.0   35.0  105.0  175.0  225.0 240.0 250.0



- 24 -
Schedule B
COLONT
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Project Element             Progurement Method                     Total
ICB              Other a/                Cost
Sub-Loans
Goods aud Works         160              1,362                   1,522
(20)              (230)                  (250)
-                       -
tes: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed with Bank funds.
a/ Normal commercial practices, ensuring competitive quality and price.
Disbursnts
Cateforv                   Amount                     X
Goods aud Services            250.0.            70X of amount disbursed
pinanced by Subloans                            by FINAGRO until the
first US$100 million
have been disbursed, and
55Z thereafter



-25 -
COLOMB3IA
AGRICULTURhL SECTOR CREDIT FROJEC.
Timetable of Key Proiect Proce9s*nt Events
(a)  Tie Taken to Prepares-           24 months
(b)  Prepared bys                     GovernmentIFINAGUO/World Bank
(a)  First Bank Mission:              December 1990
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:    April 1992
(e)  Date of Negotiation.s            November/December 1992
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  May 1993



_ 26 -                               Schedule D
Page 1 of 3
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of December 30,1992)
Amount (less
Loan or                                                cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal                                                             Undis-
Number       Year      Borrower         Purpose          Bank         IDA      bursed
111 Loans and one IDA Credit fuly disbursed               4,709.98     23.48
2303      1983  ICA             Agric Res & Ext          63.40                  0.87
2449     . 1984  EPM            Rio Grande Mulpurp      164.50                 37.10
2453      1984  Fedecafe        Ag Diversification       50.00                  4.28
2470      1985  EMC             Cucuta Water/Sew         18.50                  6.61
2512      1985  EAAB            Bogota Water IV         129.00                 27.86
2611      1986  Colombia        Fublic Health            17.55                  2:16
2634      1986  EEEB            Bogota Dist Il          131.11                 26.82
.2667      1986  HIMAT          Irrigation II           114.00                 55.60
2668      1986  Cavecinales     Rural Transport          62.00                  0.96
2829      1987  Fondo Vial      2nd NtU Hwy Sector      180.30                  3.45
2909      1988  CaJa Agraria    Caja Agraria             15.00         .        8.58
2961      1988  BCH             WS & Waste Sector       150.00                116.17
3010      1989  Colombia        Ed Sector               100.00                 60.17
3025      1989  B. de la Rep.    5th Sm Med Entp         80.00                  6.22
3113      1990  Colombia        Sm-Scale 1rmg            78.20                 74.58
3157      1990  Fondo Vial      Rural Rds Sector II      55.00                 35.21
3201     .1990  Colombia        Comm ChIld Care & Nu     24.00                 18.46
3250      1991  Colombia        Rural Dev Invest         75.00                 57.08
3278 (S)  1991  Colombia        Public Sector Reform.   304.00                102.50
3321      1991  Colombia        Indust Restruct         200.00                200.00
3336      1991  Colombia        Munic Devt               60.00.                53.02
3449      1992  Colombia       IFI-Restrc.&DIvst.       100.00                100.00
3453      1992  Colombia       Third National Roads     266.00                266.00
2,437.56      0.00   1,263.70
TOTAL                                7,147.54     23.48
Of which repaid                     3,265.17     10.41
Total held by Bank & IDA             3,882.37   . 13.07
Amount sold                             50.99
Of which repaid                        50.99
Total undisbursed                                          1,263.70



- 27 -
Page 2 of 3
B. STATMdB4 OF lFC DIVBStIBT IN COLOMB ( of Decmber31, 1992)
(TJSS mli)
Obligr                        Type of Buis                            MIY.        Logo       Ijuhy      Toal
Aimeviva                      Torip&s  orsm                           1966          1.00        .0        1.0'
cubona                         CoIl mining                            1984         10.24       1.64      11.S8
1987         2.90         .00       2.90
Comn Boyaa                    Mg ocment lime & platr                  1974          1.50        .00       1.50
CetnentoCalWI                 Mrs otcementimeplspJauer                1975          3.60        .00       3.60
CF Cds                        Development finane compades             1964           .00        .70        .70
1970          .00         .11        .11
CF Co_ombian                  DWelpment StAnce comples                1962          2.00       4.02       6.02
1985         6.00         .00       6.00
CF del No"                    Developmn   ace compnies                1969          .00         .43        .43
1973          .00         .02        .02
CF del Vaile                                                          1988          .00        2.28       223
I1            .08         .0S
Development finace oanies              1969          .00         .43        .43
1985         6.00         .00       6.00
1988          .00       2.2         2.2
CF del Vall-AL                D.VelOPWM  fnAc compaies                1989          1.73       2.50       4.23
CF Nacl                       DevelopmAe finance compa_s              1962          2.00       4.00       6.00
1963          .00         .04        .04
198S         6.00         .00       6.00
CF-PAme      e ouulo          Devopme  fince compane                  198           .03         .00        .03
CFV-FaOMe                     Delopment finane companies              19S8            6         .00        .36
CiV-Pla                       Delopmnflimc companie                   198            .34        .00        .34
CPV-P(cbieb                   Deveopment finane comn                  19             .44        .00        .44
CFV.Polime                    Devdopmen fice compait                  198S          1.00        .00       1.00
CFY-Plyb                      Developm   anme copaies                 1988           .77        .00        .77
CFV.Popac                                                             199           .00         .20        .20
CFV4alpa                      Developmn fnance companie               1988          .33         .00        .33
Chucui Oil                    Cnde pwtolm &  tal gs                   1986          .00        5.00       5.00
Coiclinker                    MtW of cemnlime & plat                  l97          2.43         .00       2.43
1980          .00       2.25        2.25
coltgo                        Tapot & mna                             1913          1.22        .72       1.94
Cotjr                         Spinning. wevl  & fintig* 1963                        2.00        .04       2.04
1967          .00        .08         .0O
1968          .00         .02        .02
1969          .00'       .02         .02
1991        22.50        .00       2230
Dvviena                       Savins & oa iilonm                      1973          .00         .31        .31
1975          .00        .14         .14
Elsoc _af                     Mfg of btirc mdal podu  M               1961d         .71         .00        .71
sb                            M   of textiles nwc                     19C7           .00        .92        .92
1970          1.00       .72        1.72
1974         6.00        .96        6.96
1985         6.75         .00       6.75
1986         6.00         .00       6.00
1987          .56         .00        M6
TSes, weus  appar & in                 1989         40.Q0        .00      40.00
ImmEne                        Mbfgof bbdmicm talptoductem             1961          .70         .00        .70
Ina & Sellbas ind csdA                 1964           .00       1.27       1.27
Gasoditote                    Pipeline transport                      1987          .00         .04        .04
Hotuamo                       Rea_mn & hoesb                          1969          .00         .01        .01
hbua                          AJ_&ulual A ivemok prod                 1966          1.00        S         1.58
LImmad                        M   of Wood & Wood pducs In             1959          .50         .00        .50
LOS bless                     Miing & quarying mc                     1976          6.00        .00       6.00
Ig Boom                       Lasing compa_e                          1992          .00         .02        .02
1981         9.00        .17        9.17
1985           Q0        .02         .02
1987         5.00        .00        5.00
1990          .00         .02        .02



144
0
Ii
.Xt            .                                                      ....
I-tw4.tER                stt
I      ^5       2 ;         W g"
j{ A    EEttw0^              E    tS
c 4      'I..8,.0E04                  t
g~~~ 4  !SiEIE
-~~~~~
I>  j. IIiI X i    J
g    f#iJ0Idl  j    14
M Kaa t                           r
0U .3X g1}2
I    JINJIJI Ii 



