Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3575 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 13, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3575 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Guarantor and Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector 
Agropecuario-Finagro (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to two hundred and fifty million dollars ($250,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor 
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby 
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and 
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and 
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of 
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures. 
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall, on the earlier of June 30, 1994 or the date 
on which the aggregate amount of Subloans approved under paragraph 2 (a) of Part A of 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement plus the aggregate amount of withdrawals authorized 
in respect of Subloans under paragraph 2 (b) of such Part A shall have reached the 
amount of the Loan allocated to Category (1) of the Table, review jointly with the 
Bank: (i) the findings, results and recommendations of the studies to be carried out 
under Parts B.2 and 3 of the Project; (ii) one or more proposals, prepared by the 
Guarantor for purposes of the aforesaid review, on the future of the bonds mechanism 
established under Resolution 77 to provide credit for the agricultural sector in the 
context of the findings, conclusions and recommendations of such studies; (iii) on the 
performance by Caja Agraria in carrying out the Corporate Plan and the Key Indicators, 
including the elimination of Caja Agraria's net losses (margen operacional negativo); 
and (iv) the status of the Guarantor's Agricultural trade regime.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, through DNP's environmental unit (Division 
Especial de Politica Ambiental y Corporaciones), prepare and furnish to the Bank for 
review by a date not later than six months from the Effective Date, a nation-wide 
action plan to strengthen the environmental assessment capability of each of the 
Regional Development Corporations, as the term is defined in Section 1.02 (aa) of the 
Loan Agreement between the Central Bank and the Bank dated January 22, 1992 
(Industrial Restructuring and Development Project).
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take, or cause to be taken, all such action on 
its part including provision of funds and the undertakings stipulated in the Schedule 
to this Agreement, as shall be necessary or convenient to enable or facilitate the 
carrying out of the Corporate Plan. Such provision of funds shall be made in 
accordance with the terms of the referred Plan.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, beginning in 1993, submit to the Bank: (a) by 
Page  3
March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year until and including 
December 31, 1995, quarterly
progress reports on the performance by Caja Agraria of the Key Indicators; and (b) by 
March 31 and September 30 of each year until and including December 31, 1995, biannual 
progress reports on the
action taken by Caja Agraria under the Corporate Plan, particularly physical and 
financial progress on the carrying out of such plan and on collection performance by 
Caja Agraria and on arrears of Caja Agraria's debtors, both under loans made by Caja 
Agraria.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, through DNP: (a) carry out, not later than 
December 31, 1993, a study, under terms of reference and through consultants all 
satisfactory to the Bank, to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the price band 
system currently used for the importation of certain agricultural commodities; and (b) 
promptly furnish to the Bank, copy of the above study after its completion.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Edificio de los Ministerios
Santafe de Bogota
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIHACIENDA
44473 MHACCO
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Gabriel Silva Lujan
Page  4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE
Key Indicators
1.
Caja Agraria shall take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that: 
(i) Caja Agraria's net losses (margen operacional negativo) have ceased in respect of 
the first quarter of 1994 and of every quarter thereafter; and (ii) Caja Agraria's net 
profit (margen operacional positivo) for each fiscal year, starting with the 1994 
fiscal year, is not lower than 1% (one percent) of Caja Agraria's total assets for the 
fiscal year in question. The Guarantor shall take all such action as shall be 
necessary or convenient to cause Caja Agraria, at the end of any quarter starting with 
the last quarter of 1993, to furnish to the Bank copies of Caja Agraria's statement of 
income and balance sheet for the quarter in question, as filed with the Guarantor's 
Superintendency of Banks, under the terms of such Superintendency's Resolution 2480 
dated June 19, 1992 and the Corporate Plan, together with such other evidence, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, as the Bank shall reasonably request, to 
determine whether the said percentage has been achieved or will be achieved.
2.
The aggregate number of permanent and temporary staff of Caja Agraria by 
December 31, 1993 and 1994, shall not exceed 8,200 and 7,200, respectively, all in 
accordance with evidence satisfactory to the Bank to be provided by the Guarantor, and 
current operation expenditures of Caja Agraria during each of the said years shall not 
exceed 16% of Caja Agraria's mobilization during the corresponding year.
3.
The number of Caja Agraria's branches shall not exceed from 760 and 650 by 
December 31, 1993 and 1994, respectively; provided, however, that each of said 
branches shall have to show a net profit (utilidad neta), in accordance with evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank, except for a given number of branches, which could be 
allowed to operate at a net loss to the extent that the Guarantor is able to show, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that the aggregate of such losses are 
covered by payments made, or to be made, by the Guarantor to Caja Agraria pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
4.
For purposes of this Schedule the term "current operation expenditures of Caja 
Agraria" means the aggregate of the amounts shown in Caja Agraria's balance sheet as 
personnel expenditures
(gastos de personal), asset depreciation (depreciacion de activos) and other 
administrative expenditures (otros gastos administrativos) during the year in question 
and the term "Caja Agraria's mobilization" means the aggregate of the amounts shown in 
Caja Agraria's balance sheet as Cuenta de Captaciones del Publico during the year in 
question.
