RESTRICTED
Report No. P-453
fILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
September 24, 1965



INTERNA.TIONAL DEVELOPPIENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.   I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit in various currencies equivalent to $11
million to the Kingdom of Morocco to help finance an education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.   In November 1964., the Government of Morocco submitted an applica-
tion to Bank/IDA for a loan or credit for financial assistance in the
construction and equipment of 21 schools offering general and special-
ized education and training at the secondary level. The appraisal
mission visited Morocco in March and April 1965.
3.   Previous missions to Morocco concerned with education included a
Unesco Educational Investments Programming Mission (1963) and a Bank
Economic Survey Mission (1964):  the relevant sections of their reports
were available to the members of the appraisal mission.
4.   The proposed credit would be the first operation of the Associa-
tion in Morocco. In December 1962, the Bank made a $15 million loan
(and IFC joined with a $1.5 million investment) to Morocco's Development
Bank (BNDE). In August 1964 the Bank made a second loan to Morocco
equivalent to $17.5 million to help carry out an agricultural development
and irrigation program. As of August 31, 1965, the status of these loans
was as follows:
(US $ millions)
Year  Borrpwer           Purpose             Amount    Undisbursed Balance
1962  Banque Nationale   Industry             15.0               9.3
de D6veloppement
Economique
1964 Kingdom of Morocco Agriculture           17.5              13.8
Total                                   32.5              23.1
of which has been repaid               0.5
Total outstanding                       32.0
Amount Sold                  0.1
of which repaid             -          0.1
Net Amount Held by Bank                 31.9



- 2 -
5.   On September 10, negotiations were completed on a Bank loan
equivalent to $10 million to the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(CNCA). This loan will help finance an Agricultural Credit Project
and is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors for decision
during the month of October 1965.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE CREDIT
6.   Borrower:                Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies of
US $11 million
Purpose:                 To help finance the construction and the
equipment of 21 secondary schools located
in various towns in Morocco.
Term and Amortization:   50 years with no amortization for the
first 10 years. One-half of 1% of the
principal amount wvould be repayable semi-
annually for 10 years and, beginning
March 15, 1986, 1-1/2% of the principal
amount would be repayable semi-annually for
30 years.
Service Charge:          3/h of 1% per annum for the principal
amount of the credit disbursed and out-
standing.
Payment Dates:           March 15 and September 15.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
The Project
7.   A report on the project, "Appraisal of an Education and Training
Project in Morocco," (TO-487a) is attached.
8.   Following independence in 1956 the Moroccan Government embarked on
a policy of expanding primary education but expansion of secondary school
enrollment did not start until 1960/61 and is still inadequate. In the
public and private sectors there is a distinct shortage of trained man-
power at this level. Furthermore, applicants for entry into the
university are still small in number so that the field of selection con-
tinues to be narrow. Lastly, highly paid expatriates still hold a high
percentage of middle and high-level jobs. Government policy is gradually
to replace expatriates by Moroccans and this requires a rapid expansion
of secondary education. The proposed project is directed to assist in
meeting the aforementioned needs.



- 3 -
9.   The project, expected to be completed by 1968, will permit about
30,000 additional students to be enrolled in 21 schools of secondary
education. This is about 30% of the total increase in secondary school
enrollment envisaged in the Three-Year Plan (1965-67). Of the 30,000
students, 24,000 will be boys and 6,000 will be girls. Boarding accom-
modation is included for 3,400 students, of whom a little over 900 will
be girls. By 1968/69 when the project is fully implemented, the 21
schools will have about 12,000 students in the common first two years
of study (observation classes), 6,700 students in the "short" course 2j
and a total of 10,800 in the two cycles of the "long"course. 31 In the
"short" course about 1,300 students will pursue training in agriculture,
600 in commerce, 500 in industrial training and 100 in feminine arts,
together with 4,200 in general studies. In the second cycle of the long
course, about 1,900 students will be specializing in science, 500 in
mathematics, 300 in industrial arts and 100 in commerce. To these should
be added about 3,800 students who will specialize in languages, history
and other general subjects. Many of the second cycle students will proceed
to universities.
10. The proposed project consists of the construction and the equipment
of 21 multilateral secondary schools which provide basic education with
alternative biases (e.g. arts, sciences, commerce, home economics, tech-
nical, etc.) The total estimated cost is about DH 80.7 million, equi-
valent to US$16.2 million. This cost is made up of about $2.4 million
for sites, $1.1 million for site development works and $7.1 million for
construction. Furniture, domestic appliances, science laboratories and
workshop equipment and libraries take about $3.2 million while profession-
al fees and contingencies account for about $2.4 million. The estimates
and unit costs are reasonable.
11. The proposed IDA development credit of $11 million, or about two-
thirds of the estimated total cost, will cover all the foreign exchange
component, estimated at about 30% of the total cost of the project, and
part of the local currency. IJith respect to the procurement of all goods
U    Immediately following the primary school, partly to further the
student's basic education and partly to provide diagnostic informa-
tion concerning his choice of specialization.
A four years' course primarily intended for less academically able
students who should prepare for gainful employment by suitably
planned courses of study or training.
2/   Designed for the more able students.   It consists of a first cycle
of general studies of 4 years' duration and a second cycle of 3
years of specialized studies (art, sciences, technical, commercial).
Completion of the second cycle may lead to university study or its
equivalent.



- 4 -
and services it has been provided that civil works contracts in-
volving an amount of $100, 000 equivalent or more and contracts for
procurement of school equipment involving an amount of $30,000 equi-
valent or more shall be awarded on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding. It has also been agreed that individual contracts
shall be of a size sufficiently large so as not to discourage po-
tential bidders or to impede the effective carrying out of the project.
12. Additional teachers required to staff the 21 schools form part of
the total number of teachers needed for the expansion of secondary edu-
cation envisaged in the Moroccan Three-Year Plan. The supply of trained
teachers will fall short of the need and emergency measures will have to
be adopted - such as the employment of senior primary school teachers
to staff the first two years of common study - until 1969/70 wihen the
Advanced Teacher Training College output is able to meet the teacher
need at this level.
13. The estimated annual cost of operating these schools after full
implementation of the project will be approximately DH 25 million,
which will not unduly burden the Budget.
The Economy
14. A report dated March 14, 1963, "The Economy of Morocco," (AF 7a) has
been circulated to the Executive Directors. Subsequently, at the request
of the Government, the Bank organized a General Survey Mission to
Morocco. The Mission's draft report was sent to Morocco for comments
and has recently been discussed with the Government. A short economic
report entitled "Recent Economic Developments in Morocco," and drawing
extensively upon the material contained in the Survey Mission's report,
is attached hereto (Ref. AF 36).
15. With an average per capita income of about $170, Morocco is in a
better position than many of its African neighbors. However, the country
is experiencing a difficult period economically and socially. Population
is rising by at least 3% annually, and now stands at about 13 million.
Growth of output has averaged only about 2% annually since 1955, so that
average per capita income has declined, reflecting the departure of rel-
atively high income Europeans and leaving that of the Moroccan population
little changed. Seventy percent of the labor force is engaged in sub-
sistence type agriculture, and 80% of the population is still illiterate.
There is considerable unemployment.
16. The slow growth of output since independence has been due in large
part to a sharp drop in private investment which has been associated
with the outflow of Europeans. The number of European settlers has de-
clined from a peak of half a million in 1956 and 300,000 in 1960 to
around  150,000 at present and there has been an almost continuous net
outflow of private capital during the past decade. Another important



- 5 -
factor in the slow growth rate has been stagnation in agricultural pro-
duction for the domestic market, reflecting the slow rate of progress in
traditional farming and a difficult natural environment.
17. The Government has made an effort to speed up growth
through an expanded public sector development program, which helped to
increase investment from a low of 7% of GNP in 1957 to an average of
12% in the past several years. But increasing resort to inflationary
financing in 1961-64, declining expenditures in Morocco on the part of
foreign governments, and accelerated private capital outflow led to the
virtual exhaustion of foreign exchange reserves by late 1964. Since
then the Government has taken important steps toward stabilizing the
financial situation. There has also been a substantial increase in for-
eign aid commitments. However, slow growth seems likely to continue
over the next several years unless public investment efforts in agri-
culture can produce faster results, and unless the exodus of skilled
manpower and capital in the private sector can be slowed down or offset
by increased internal savings and efforts to train Moroccans for the
skills required by the economy.
18. Morocco is in a difficult transitional period. It has shown
great willingness to take the measures which should ease this trans-
ition.  However, important uncertainties remain, especially with
respect to the impact which the outflow of skills and capital will
have on the pace of development. But there is little doubt that the
burden of compensating for this outflow, while at the same time increas-
ing investment to meet the needs of a rapidly increasing population,
will be significantly larger than Mlorocco can support from its own re-
sources. External debt is not yet very burdensome (less than 5% of
export earnings are presently required for debt service), and there is
scope for further conventional borrowing. However, it would be unwise
for Morocco to try to meet its full external capital requirements in
this fashion, because of the uncertain outlook, and the threat of esca-
lating debt service. Given these problems and given Morocco's recent
record of performance under difficult circumstances, the country would
appear eligible for some blend of IDA assistance.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
19. The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Morocco and the Association is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors; it conforms substantially to the pattern of agree-
ments usually followed for projects of this type.
20. The Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association is also
being distributed separately.



- 6 -
PART V - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21. I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
22. I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit
to the Kingdom of Morocco in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eleven million United States dollars
(US$ll,OOO,OOO), to mature on and prior to September 15, 2015,
to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon other terms and
conditions substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit
Agreement (Education Project) between the Kingdom of Morocco
and the Association which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. 1.Toods
President
Attachments
September 24, 1965
Washington, D.C.



