CREDIT NUMBER 79 MOR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 11, 1965


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 79 MOR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 11, 1965


﻿AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 1965, between the KING-
DOM oF MOROCCO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Associ-tion).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said
Development Credit Regulations No. 1 as so modified being
hereinafter called the Regulations):
(a) The second sentence of Section 2.02 is amended by
deleting the words "at the same rate" and substituting
therefor the words "at the rate of one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 17) per annum".
(b) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is to
be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit are
to be Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in the
respective currencies of the countries from which such
goods are acquired.


﻿4
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in
(including services supplied from) the
territories of the Borrower, in such cur-
rency or currencies as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which
the cost of the goods financed out of such
proceeds has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from
time to time agree on any other currency in which
withdrawals shall be made."
(c) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03
as follows:
" Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal with
Other Currency.
If withdrawal shall be made in any currency which the
Association shall have purchased with another currency
for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Credit so withdrawn shall be deemed to have been with-
drawn from the Credit Account in such other currency
for the purposes of Section 3.03."
(d) Section 3.04 is renumbered as Section 3.05.
(e) Section 8.04 is deleted.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000).


﻿5
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit
Account in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation
and suspension set forth in, the Development Credit
Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of the Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall be the equivalent of 80 per
cent (or such other percentage as may from time to
time be established by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association) of such amounts as
shall have been expended for the reasonable cost of
goods required for carrying out the Project; and
(b) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required to meet payments under (a) above;
provided, however, that not withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures prior to September 1, 1965.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(%  of 1o) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual instalments payable on each March 15 and Septem-
ber 15 commencing March 15, 1976 and ending September
15, 2015, each instalment to and including the instalment


﻿6
payable on September 15, 1985, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each instal-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cert (1-1/o) of
such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The spe.ific goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the methods
and procedures for procurement of such goods shall be
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, subject to modification by further agreement
between them.
SECTIoN 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
in the territories of the B:)rrower exclusively in the carry-
ing out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or
cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency, in conformity with sound technical standards and
with due regard to economy.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the schools included in the
Project to be operated under sound and qualified admin-
istration and to be provided with qualified teachers in
adequate numbers.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the buildings and equip-
ment of the schools included in the Project to be maintained


﻿7
and shall cause all necessary renewals and repairs to be
made thereto.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in
the carrying out of the Project the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed qualified and experienced archi-
tects, engineers and other coisultants acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and Association.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by con-
tractors acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
employed under contracts satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association.
(f) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation for its approval promptly upon their preparation
the plans, specifications, contracts and work schedules for
the construction included in the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall request.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times make or
cause to be made available immediately as needed all funds
and other resources, including land, required for the carry-
ing out of the Project and for the operation and mainte-
nance of the schools included in the Project.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in ac-
cordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the
agency or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof; shall en-


﻿8
able the Association's representatives to inspect the Proj-
ect, the goods and any relevant records Cnd documents; and
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Project, the goods and the administration,
operations and financial condition of the agency or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof.
SECTIoN 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall in-
clude information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and to the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Association
to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
shall insure or cause to be insured with responsible in-


﻿0
9
surers all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Such insurance shall cover such marine, transit and other
risks incident to delivery of the goods into the territories
of the Borrower and to the site of the Project, and shall
be for such amounts, as are consistent with sound com-
mercial practice. Indemnity under such insurance shall be
payable in freely convertible currencies or in the currency
in which the cost of the goods insured thereunder shall be
payable.
SECTION 4.06. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.07. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any
subsequent time during the continuance thereof the Asso-
ciation, at its option, may declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
and upon any such declaration such principal shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Agreement
to the contrary notwithstanding.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have become effective by December 31, 1965, this
Development Credit Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association,
after consideration of the reasons for the delay, estab-
lishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. The As-
sociation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1971,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat
Morocco
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Ministere Finances
Rabat, Morocco
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Alternative addre-s for cables and radiograms:
INDEVAS
WASHINGTON, D,.CI.
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the
Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOI OF MOROCCO
By s/ AHMED LARAKI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN
By s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project consists of the construction and equip-
ment of the following twenty-one multilateral secondary
schools:
1. Agadir-Lycee: Buildings to include 30 classrooms, ad-
ministration rooms, science laboratories, dormitories,
dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders (120
boys and 60 girls).
2. Aouamra-Agricultural College-short course-: Build-
ings to include 10 classrooms, administration rooms,
science laboratories, one workshop, dormitories, dining
and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders, all boys.
3. Beni Mellal-Lycee: Buildings to include 40 classrooms,
administration rooms, science laboratories, dormi-
tories, dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders
(120 boys and 60 girls).
4. Casablanca-Lycee: Buildings to include 40 classrooms,
administration rooms and science laboratories.
5. Fes-Lyc'e: Buildings to include 30 classrooms, admin-
istration rooms, science laboratories, two workshops,
dormitories, dining and auxiliary facilities for 180
boarders, all boys.
6. Kenitra-Lycee: Buildings to include 40 classrooms, ad-
ministration rooms, dormitories, dining and auxiliary
facilities for 180 boarders (120 boys and 60 girls).
7. Khouribga-Lyc6e: Buildings to include 30 classrooms,
administration rooms, science laboratories, dormi-
tories, dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders
(120 boys and 60 girls).


﻿13
8. Ksar-es-Souk-Lycle: Buildings to include 30 class-
rooms, administration rooms, science laboratories, one
workshop, dormitories, dining and auxiliary facilities
for 180 boarders (120 boys and 60 girls).
9. Marrakech-Lycee: Buildings to include 40 classrooms,
administration rooms, science laboratories, dormi-
tories, dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders,
all girls.
'10. Meknes-Lyede: Buildings to include 40 classrooms,
administration rooms, science laboratories, dormitories,
dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders, all
boys.
11. Midelt-Technical College-short course-: Buildings to
include 10 classrooms, administration rooms, science
laboratories, one workshop, dormitories, dining and
auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders (120 boys and 60
girls).
12. Nador-Lycee: Buildings to include 30 classrooms, ad-
ministration rooms and science laboratories.
13. Oujda-Lycee: Buildings to include 30 classrooms, ad-
ministration rooms, science laboratories, dormitories,
dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders (120
boys and 60 girls).
14. Quezzane-Lycee: Buildings to include 30 classrooms,
administration rooms, science laboratories, dormi-
tories, dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders
(120 boys and 60 girls).
15. Safi-Lycee: Buildings to include 40 classrooms, admin-
istration rooms, science laboratories, dormitories, din-
ing and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders (120 boys
and 60 girls).


﻿14
16. Sefron-Lycee: Buildings to include 30 classrooms, ad-
ministration rooms, science laboratories, dormitories,
dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders (120
boys and 60 girls).
17. Settat-Agricultural College-short course-: Buildings
to include 20 classrooms, administration rooms, science
laboratories, one workshop, dormitories, dining and
auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders, all boys.
18. Sidi-Slimane-Agricultural College - short course -:
Buildings to include 20 classrooms, administration
rooms, science laboratories, one workshop, dormitories,
dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders, all
boys.
19. Taroudant-Agricultural College-short course-: Build-
ings to include 20 classrooms, administration rooms,
science laboratories, one workshop, dormitories, din-
ing and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders, all boys.
20. Taza-Lycee: Buildings to include 40 classrooms, ad-
ministration rooms, science laboratories, dormitories,
dining and auxiliary facilities for 180 boarders (90
boys and 90 girls).
21. Tetouan-Lycee: Buildings to include 30 classrooms, ad-
ministration rooms, science laboratories, two work-
shops, dormitories, dining and auxiliary facilities for
180 boarders (120 boys and 60 girls).
The Project is expected to be completed by the end of
1970.


