Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19318 TJ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION(US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
FOR
FARM PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
May 19, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Aral Sea Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1999)
Currency Unit = Tajik Rubles (TR)
I TR= US$ 0.001
US$ I =TR 1000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           - Country Assistance Strategy
CIMMYT        - International Institute for Maize & Wheat
CIP           - International Center for Potatoes
F'SU          - Former Soviet Union
GOT           - Government of Tajikistan
Ha            - Hectare
IDA           - International Development Association
ICR           - Implementation Completion Report
ICARDA        - International Center for Ag - Research in the Dry Areas
rImI          - International Irrigation Management Institute
M & E         - Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA           - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
MOWR          -      - Ministry of Water Resources
NGO           - Non-Governmental Organization
PAD           - Project Appraisal Document
PIP           - Project Implementation Plan
PMU           - Project Management Unit
PPF           - Project Preparation Facility
SLC           - State Land Committee
TA            - Technical Assistance
TAAS          - Tajikistan Academy of Agricultural Sciences
GLOSSARY
Giprozem             - State land Institute
Goskomzem            - State Land Committee
Hukumat              - Raion Administration
Jomat                - An administrative unit - below Raion
Nasbank              - National Bank of Tajikistan
Oblast               - An administrative unit of Region or Province
Raion                - An administrative unit - below oblast
Sovkhoz/Kolkhoz      - State farm/ Collective farm
Tajiksberbank        - Savings Bank of Tajikistan
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:  Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager/Director:  Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  T. V. Sampath / S. Janakiram



TAJIKISTAN
FARM PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                           2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        18
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                           18
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          22
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Social                                                                             23
6. Environmental assessment                                                           23
7. Participatory approach                                                             24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     24
2. Critical risks                                                                     25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     26



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                          26
2. Other                                                                             26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         52
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   67
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                     68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           72
Annex 11: Letter of Development Policy                                                  74
MAP(S)



TAJIKISTAN
Farm Privatization Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Environmentally & Socially Sustainable Development Unit (ECS SD)
Date: May 14, 1999                                Team Leader: Thirumangalam V. Sampath
Country Manager/Director: Ishrat Husain           Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: 49718                                 Sector(s): AD - Rural Development, AA - Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
Project Financing Data
El Loan        M Credit         D Grant        OZ Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) $20
Proposed Terms: El To be defined  El Multicurrency C: Single currency
El Standard Variable O Fixed        El LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           10
Years to maturity:              40
Commitment fee:                 %
Service charge                  0.75%
Fin`andcing ,Plan:-    ElT be de'fined
Sour-e                              Local          o.f       . Tot I
Governrent                                                      2.70           0.00          2.70
IBRD                                                            0.00           0.00          0.00
IDA                                                             2.60          17.40         20.00
PRIVATE FARMERS                                                 0.80           0.00          0.80
Total:                                                          6.10          17.40         23.50
Borrower: Republic of Tajikistan
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
State Land Committee, Ministries of Finance, Agriculture, Water Resources and Tajiksberbank, Nasbank.
Implementing agency(ies):
Project Management Unit
Address: No: 44, Rudaki Street, Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan,
Contact Person: Tohir Ostanaev
Tel: (7-3772)+ 211-367                Fax: (7-3772)+ 51-01-17              Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
--;.F -Y [-  1>99  --2.  000 . L  .2Q01             2002,- .;  2-0G3 ;  .  .  X.4:
Annual    0.40          4.00        5.10        5.20        4.00         1.30
Cumulative    0.40         4.40         9.50       14.70       18.70       20.00
Project implementation period: 60 months
Expected effectiveness date: 09/16/99  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OCS PAD F..: OdSe9. 19



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objectives of the Farm Privatization Support Project are to assist the Government to: (i)
develop procedures and institutional mechanisms at the state level and selected regions to ensure fair,
secure and equitable transfer of land and other farm assets to private individuals or groups; (ii) test and
implement these procedures in ten selected former state and collective farms in order to provide
representative models which could serve as a basis for wider geographical replicability; and (iii) create
sustainable private family farming units and provide them with the enabling conditions to operate
independently in a market economy.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Aninex 1)
The key performance indicators for the achievement of project objectives would be monitored through
a Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) system which would measure: (i) number of certificates for lifelong
land use rights issued to : (a) farm members in each of the selected farms and (b) the existing Dekhan
farms (clan or group of individuals) in the selected raions; (ii) number of family and other types of farm
organizations established, and numbers of private family farms which are commercially viable; (iii)
increase in water use efficiency; (iv) initiation of cost recovery of irrigation and drainage services; (v)
number of water user's associations formed; (vi) changes in cultivable agricultural area under private and
public ownership according to the main land use types; (vii) number of former state and collective farms
restructured; (viii) utilization of rural information and advisory services; and (ix) changes in private family
farm incomes, cropping intensity and productivity.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS document number: 18075 TJ                          Date of latest CAS
discussion: 06/25/98
The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which identifies
agriculture as one of the priority sectors for stimulating economic growth in the country. The project
directly supports the Government's program to transform the agricultural sector into a competitive market
oriented system. The project complements the on-going Bank operations, which have focused on creating
an enabling policy environment and building institutional capacity in various sectors. The strategy
recognizes that only modest progress has been made in land privatization and farm restructuring which
could be partly attributable to civil conflict and uneven political commitment and resistance by vested
interests, as well as to a lack of demonstrated successful models. The activities proposed in this project
would provide the foundation for those being envisaged under proposed future lending operations of IDA;
viz., rural infrastructure rehabilitation ($20 million) in FY2000 and post privatization agricultural support
credit ($20 million) in FY 2001.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The rapid decline in agricultural production levels and farm incomes during the last few years
appears to have reached a bottom last year and is showing signs of reversal, especially through increased
production in the newly created Dekhan (private) farms and associations. However, realization of the full
potential of Tajikistan's natural resources and comparative advantage in the agricultural sector would
depend on the Government's ability to address the following critical issues facing the agricultural sector:
-2-



a. Farm Privatization:
The Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan, at the present time, does not provide for outright
ownership of farm land by citizens. However, the land code provides for the allocation of life long and
inheritable land use rights to individuals. Land privatization, in this document, refers to the legitimization
and registration of these land use rights.
Noticeable changes have occurred and steps have been taken for the provision of land use rights to
members of the former state and collective farms since 1997. Private use of land, is occurring throughout
the country with varying degrees of success and is more dependent on the initiatives of the raion
administrations and others concerned than on legal processes. Presidential decrees (Numbers 499, 522 and
1021) are being implemented in various raions. The targets set for the privatization of 120 former state and
collective farms into Dekhan farms by December 1999 are ambitious in light of the weak administrative
procedures and unprepared land registration services. If not managed carefully, this situation would result
in the lack of fair and transparent processes and inequities in land distribution. Alternatively, superficial
adjustments might result by merely changing the nomenclature of collective farms as joint stock companies
or associations and maintaining centralized management. In general, several different types of private land
use have evolved: (a) creation of new private Dekhan farms based on nuclear families (husband, wife,
children) or extended families, often as a second-stage break-up of "Brigade Farms"; (b) retaining the
existing 'Brigade' structure of the old Sovkhozl Kolkhoz farms; and (c) reorganization of the former state
and collective farms  into structures such as Joint Stock Companies, Lease Enterprises, Dekhan
Associations or Collective Farms. There has been little effort to explain the differences to the people
concerned in terms of their rights or the alternatives that they could have. To date, the process of
re-organization appears to have been a "top-down" process. Nevertheless, during the field visits undertaken
during the preparation of this project, the project team found that some of the Dekhan Farms visited, based
on natural family ties and internal trust and cooperation, represented a genuine form of private farming
with true feelings of ownership of their new land holdings which is a very positive development - one that
needs to be encouraged and would be done in this project. The current appraoch emphasizes the creation of
brigade based Dekhan Farms and the establishment of Associations of Dekhan Farms in order to help with
inputs and outputs marketing.
The cost of obtaining land use right certificates has been high and the process which the potential
Dekhan farmers have to follow is convoluted and time consuming. A new Dekhan Farm could be expected
to pay in excess of $200 for the issuance of a Certificate of Land Use Right, about ten times the cost in
other countries of the former Soviet Union. The process is also unnecessarily complex and involves
obtaining the necessary permissions from the Hukumat, Jomat (local Governments), Commission for
Restructuring Agricultural Enterprises, Land Committee, Notary, Ministry of Justice, Bank, Statistics
Agency and Tax Authority. Some of these agencies charge additional fees. This process needs to be
simplified and the Government should take steps to implement mechanisms to reduce the fees. This is
being addressed by the Government and during appraisal for this project, the project team found that the
Government had taken steps to remedy this situation.
Land use rights are manually recorded at the State Land Committee and kept in hand written
ledgers, making them difficult to retrieve. The system is not parcel based and suffers from the associated
drawbacks that allows duplication of entries for the same parcel. Secure land registration and titling
services and supporting mechanisms do not exist at present. Tackling this issue requires the implementation
of transparent and widely advertised procedures for land and asset allocation. This involves designing and
implementing "bottom up" approaches, establishing a simple and inexpensive land registry system and
comprehensive information services to increase people's awareness of all aspects of allocation, distribution
-3-



and registration of land use rights and farm restructuring processes. Cheaper alternatives would be sought
to reduce the cost of issuance of land certificates, e.g. replacing expensive high quality imported paper with
a cheaper one (as this was one of the main factors contributing to the high charges). Clear procedures for
entries and changes in the register itself with juridical endorsement, and providing easy access by the public
to this information are essential for the establishment of a secure and efficient land registration system.
b. Agricultural Support Services
The support services for the privatized farm units to increase crop productivity, obtain fair market
prices, retain incomes and increase opportunities for re-investment are at a rudimentary stage. Due to lack
of budgetary resources, the Government is unable to continue providing the required farm inputs and
support services to the reorganized farms. Further, the unstable political and economic situation has led to
a lack of enforcement mechanisms for legal contracts and raion and oblast border controls restrict free
movement of goods and services. Absence of a functioning rural credit mechanism, and collateral based
lending of banking institutions with the required capability to lend to the rural sector, and of supporting
infrastructure have added to the severity of the problem. The launching of successful farm businesses
depends on optimizing the utilization of existing facilities and improving the application of production
inputs. In this regard, the farmers are already exploiting the plentiful supply of labor on the new farms
through manual cultivation and harvesting. This would restrict expenditures on farm machinery to essential
spare parts for tractors and related equipment. Improving Dekhan farm productivity and incomes in the
short to medium term would require deepening the reforms in the agricultural sector, developing alternative
marketing and financing mechanisms for input and output supplies, introducing new types of tested
agricultural technologies from other similar agro-ecological zones in the world, removing artificially
created trade barriers, and providing the much needed farm inputs and incentives to sustain privatized farm
units.
c. Agricultural Policy Environnment
Since the peace accord, the Government has managed to intensify its commitment to economic
reforms and macro-economic stabilization. One of the key achievements over the past two years has been
the growth in GDP - nearly 2 percent in 1997 and an estimated 5 percent in 1998: the first increase since
independence. Other indicators have also shown similar signs of revival, such as drop in fiscal deficit from
5.8 percent of GDP in 1996 to 3.2 percent in 1998, and together with a tight monetary policy, bringing the
inflationa rate to about 3 percent in 1998. The expected continuation of these policies provides a favorable
environment for developing the private sector role in the agricultural sector - which still is in its infancy.
Prices of fruits, vegetables, grain and livestock products and inputs have been fully liberalized and
Government quotas have been abolished. However, the cotton sector continues to be controlled, with the
cotton ginneries largely in the public sector, low raw seed cotton producer prices due to high levels of
taxation and high transaction costs involved in the marketing, transport and export of lint cotton by
financing and marketing intermediaries. These factors combined with the low irrigated cotton yields -
which are in the range of 2 to 3 t/ha as compared to the potential of over 4 t/ha - have resulted in reduced
foreign exchange earnings to the economy and reduced farm incomes. Transparent processes for price
setting, and informing seed cotton producers before planting season, written agreements assuring the price
to be received at the time of delivery between the farmer and the prospective buyers, and promoting
competition in the processing and marketing of cotton are the main measures which need to be introduced
for the speedy recovery of this most important sector. The Government has submitted a letter describing
the policy for agricultural developnzent in the Republic of Tajikistan, dated 12 May 1999 signed by the
President of the Republic of Tajikistan (see Annex 11), acceptable to IDA, therebyfulfilling the condition
-4-



of Board Presentation.
d. Irrigation Systems in Project Farms
Agriculture in Tajikistan is dependent on irrigation, which in some regions, is highly energy
intensive due to the high-lift pumping schemes. It is dependent on the low cost availability of electric power
Presently, the cost of electric power is highly subsidized. The agriculture sector pays only 0.4 Tajik
Rubles/kwh or 0.05 Cents/kwh.. Irrigation water is diverted from rivers by gravity. In most cases, the canal
water level is lower than the agricultural land, which makes it necessary for water to be lifted by large
pumping stations into main canals. These canals supply water to a number of former state and collective
farms. It was observed that water pumped to comparatively higher elevations is sometimes used for
high-value fruits such as apricots, plums and grapes, where the soils are light-textured and well drained.
Combined with very favorable weather, these lands are suitable for growing high-value fruit crops.
Given that electricity, pumping, and operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems
have historically been provided free to the farms, water use is excessive in Tajikistan agriculture, and
particularly in pumping schemes. The farms selected in the project are dependent on both gravity systems
and lift irrigation. Most of the area, about 74 percent is irrigated using lifts up to 150 meters, and 20
percent is gravity fed, with the remaining 6 percent of the area dependent on lifts of 150 meters and above.
The economic feasibility for the rehabilitation of very high lift irrigation and drainage systems would be
subject to careful analysis, especially where the farmers grow only one crop of cotton and some winter
wheat and with market prices charged for electricity. Most of the agricultural lands are located in bowl
shaped valleys with gentle slopes. Water is pumped to the main canals which are aligned on the higher
contours, and the water application to the land is down the slope. Excess water, or return flow, from the
higher lands is frequently captured and reused for irrigation of lower lands. The lower elevation lands have
higher clay content and do not drain well naturally. Drainage facilities have been provided in many such
lands, and often the drainage water is pumped back and reused for irrigation after mixing it with fresh
surface water. Salt content of the groundwater is low. Land salinization is rare, and even in the lands
where water table is close to the surface, salt deposits are not visible. However, pumping stations for
removing drainage water are not in working condition frequently, which could lead to increased water
logging and salinization in the future. This makes it imperative to maintain drainage facilities in working
condition, especially in the land at lower elevations.
The main irrigation system facilities in most of the project farms have deteriorated to the extent
that water supplies have been reduced by about 40 percent. The pumping stations are not functioning
according to design standards. On an average, only three out of five pumps may work in a typical pumping
station and even these require constant repair and the parts are not available. Many of the pumps and
electric motors will need to be replaced and the remaining repaired. Pump house buildings need to be
rehabilitated and secured. The main canals would benefit from better sediment removal and rehabilitation
of channel shape including dykes. Most turnout gates to the tertiary channels are not functioning properly
and will need to be replaced. Also, flow measuring devices are limited and where existing, would need
extensive repairs or replacement. Additional flow measuring devices would need to be installed for better
system performance monitoring. Main collector drains need to be cleaned and reshaped. Most pumps for
recycling drainage water need to be replaced.
Timely and adequate provision of water, institutional mechanisms for setting, collection and use of
water charges and transfer of responsibility of operation and maintenance to the "water users" are measures
essential for sustainable increase in crop productivity. The Government is in the process of reforming the
irrigation sector, has passed the Water Code, is preparing the procedures for the formation of water users'
-5-



associations (WUAs) and is taking initiatives to gradually increase the water charges to recover operation
and maintenance (O&M) costs, based on the water users' ability and willingness to pay.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project has been designed to address the above issues in a comprehensive manner and is based
on evaluation of the following strategic choices:
a. Transparent versus ad-hoc approach to land distribution and farm restructuring: The
Government initiated the program to develop private farming by distributing lands from former state and
collective farms in an adhoc manner. This resulted in increasing the influence of the Hukumat and creation
of "unsustainable" forms of private farming structures. Recognizing the adverse effects of such an
approach, the choice of developing a systematic "bottom-up", participatory approach, though time
consuming, has been adopted. This would involve public awareness campaign informing the farm members
about their rights, obligations, procedures and steps to be followed for obtaining their allocation of farm
land; open general body meetings where the farm member's views and opinions are heard and decisions
taken in an open and transparent manner.
b. Simple and single versus complex and multi-component program: Creation of sustainable
forms of independent private farms from a controlled group farm situation requires the simultaneous
provision of support services in an integrated and timely manner. Mere issuance of land titles and creation
of land registry, while reducing project complexity, would not lead to the creation of sustainable forms of
private family farms, especially if wider geographical replicability is to be achieved. The minimum package
consisting of the most important elements, viz. land registration, information and advisory services,
rehabilitation of critical irrigation and drainage works, and provision of one-time grants ( somewhat similar
to homestead grants in US history) has been chosen. However, the project scope has been simplified by
restricting the scope and limiting the targeted interventions to ten representative farms, which would serve
as demonstrations and draw lessons for possible expansion to other regions of the country.
c. Grant and pilot savings and credit mechanisms versus only credit led restructuring: The
absence of rural savings and credit mechanisms, well developed banking infrastructure, and low levels of
crop profitability due to civil disturbances and the stalling of political economic transition, do not create
the conditions for credit led restructuring at the present time. It is therefore, proposed to provide a one time
grant to the newly privatized farm units for the purchase of essential farm inputs to start independent
farming operations; and simultaneously initiate in a pilot scale the establishment of rural savings and credit
associations in selected project raions. Lessons learnt from this experience would be used to develop a more
comprehensive rural credit delivery system in the country.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project consists of four components. These are: (a) Farm Restructuring Services; (b)
Rehabilitation of Critical Main and Field Level Irrigation and Drainage Works; (c) Provision of On-time
Grant and Creation of Rural Savings and Credit Association; and (d) Project Management and
Implementation Units. Each component is described below:
-6-



Component One: Farm Restructuriniw Services: (US$ 5.65 Million)
This would consist of the following sub-components:
( i ) Land Use Rights Registration Services:
The Land Use Rights Registration Services component has been designed to ensure that farmland
is allocated in a fair and transparent manner and that the ensuing land rights are recorded accurately,
effectively that would encourage the emergence of a transparent, competitive and fair land use rights
market in the future. While it is necessary to initially concentrate on farm land that the SLC would
register, the general aim would be to provide a comprehensive service that would include all land in the
land registers and ensure the system can be used for both land and buildings. The present system is not
parcel based, which has several drawbacks, such as allowing for the duplication of entries, time consuming
searches and retrieval difficulties. Neither the ledger nor the Land Use Certificates record the interests of
members of the private individual farms other than the leader (Dekhan leader) and do not record third party
rights that may include water riglhts, rights of way, pledges, restrictions, etc. A unique parcel numbering
system is not being practiced for the individual parcels, which leaves scope for substantial improvement.
This will be necessary for the ultimate development of a land market in the future and to be able to
deal with disputes in those areas. This component will not only ensure that the ten farms in the six raions
are privatized and land is properly registered, but also will establish a national land registration system and
training center that will enable all land rights to be registered in a modern and effective registration system
throughout the country. The system should be remodeled to include an unique parcel numbering system as
the basis for efficient land registration. The training center, national office, oblast offices and six rayon
offices will be fully equipped and functional to cope with the wider privatization program. Future
developments will only require equipment and in-service training for the remaining forty-six rayon offices.
The following activities would be undertaken:
Survey/Mapping. Existing aerial maps in the scale of 1:20,000 and 1:10,000 (include latest aerial
maps, if available) with the Land Committee/Land Institute (Giprozem) will be utilized, updated
and enlarged to 1:5000 for each of the project farms after a detailed ground survey. This will result
in redefining the existing boundaries of the farm and other features of the farm. Modern survey
equipment will help increase the rate of the current privatization and ensure sufficient accuracy to
limit the number of future disputes. Where necessary, existing parcels will be re-surveyed in order
to improve the accuracy of location, thus preventing future boundary disputes.
Land allocation. Each of the ten farms will undergo an analysis of the privatization activity and be
involved in a public awareness campaign that clearly specifies the rights and possible structures
that members could choose. Decision making by public consensus will lead to acceptance of
distribution of land in an open and transparent marner. The next stages will involve parcel survey,
preparation of an allocation plan and public display for general acceptance.
Land registration. The land registration system will be based on parcels or units of land that have
been allocated in accordance with the bottom up procedures being developed and implemented in
this project. Existing and new rights existing in other farms; garden plots; and other land plots of
the raion will be also be included in the registration system gradually by the raion level SLC staff.
The central office of the State Land Committee at Dushanbe and the land registration offices in the
project raions, where the pilot farms are located, would be strengthened with the minimum
-7-



equipment, training of staff and operating materials necessary to carry out their new functions.
Initially, these raion level offices would serve the needs of the representative state and collective
farms and then support the requirements of all other farms in the raion. Existing maps would be
scanned into the system and be readily available for updating, plotting farm boundaries and
printing land certificates each with a coded parcel number.
Training. The training program will commence with a "training the trainers" program. The Tajik
Agricultural University will be equipped and trainers trained to conduct all the training for the
project. In service training, which has already begun during preparation, will be conducted for the
immediate needs of the project and long term training for future needs of the national system.
(ii) Rural Information and Advisory Services:
The following activities would be undertaken:
(a) Strengthen MOA's institutional capacity for provision of rural information and
advisory services: MOA's institutional capacity will be developed to select and train advisors, and
private extension workers to identify extension needs and develop private extension services over a
period of time. Initially, the training program will start with the "Training of Trainers" from
MOA, the Tajikistan Agriculture Academy, Department of Agriculture staff of oblasts and the six
project raions: (Leninski, Shahrinau, Kalkhozabad, Yavan, Macha, and Zafarabad) and other crop
research institutes in modern training approaches and methodologies by international consultants.
The Project's Management Unit (PMU) at Dushanbe,  MOA along with the Academy of
Agricultural Sciences (AAS), and international consultants, would prepare the necessary need
based training modules for the newly emerging private farming groups. Capacity would be built in
the MOA for providing training and information for development of private extension services.
(b)  Field level demonstrations in appropriate teclnologies: Demonstrations in the
application of improved seeds, optimal use of fertilizer, proper pesticide use; inter cropping;
improved cultural practices and post-harvest technologies would be carried out in a few
representative private farms through the research institutes. New and improved local crop
production technologies for major crops (wheat, cotton, potatoes, onion, maize, sunflower, peanut,
sesame or other oilseeds and pulse crops like cow peas and mungbean and chick peas ) would be
demonstrated in selected Dekhan farms in blocks of 10 ha in the former sovkhozJkolkhozes. High
yielding varieties of oil seed crops such as Brassica Napus, Brassicajuncea, Sesames orientale,
that would help introduce effective crop geometry, hold good promise in the plains of Vaksh river
valley. Inter-cropping or relay cropping systems in cottoin - wheat based crop systems, and short
duration pulse and/or oil seeds crops in wheat-cotton rotation to enhance cropping intensity would
be introduced. Selection of Block Demonstration Farms will be on the basis of criteria developed
by the PMU on the advice of the Bank and the consultants. The objective of the demonstrations is
to teach farmers to evaluate improved practices/machinery and become more self reliant and
commercially oriented. These demonstrations would make use of special equipment (local
improved and imported), including the use of the latest generation of fuel efficient 4WD tractors. In
some cases, private companies would be encouraged and invited to demonstrate farm machinery
for small farm production technologies. Block demonstrations of 10 ha each in 30 places (to a
total of 300 ha) will be organized over two years, using off-the shelf modern varieties developed by
the international crop research institutes (i.e. ICARDA, CIMMYT, CIP, etc.), multiple cropping
systems, economically optimal rates of agricultural inputs of fertilizers, use of pest and drought
resistant photo-insensitive early maturing high quality and high yielding varieties seeds, pest
-8-



control-chemicals. Better on-farm water management practices will also be demonstrated
(involving IIMI), including some improved drip and sprinkler components.
(c) Establishment of a farmers' information services desk in the MOA: This would provide
regular information on critical agricultural issues related to production and marketing through the
existing news media of TV, radio, video, brochures and "Farmers' Weekly" paper. The
agro-technical topics and contents  for the broadcasts and papers will be generated by the
consultants and technical specialists of MOA and staff of agricultural research institutes, who will
pass it on to the newly established MOA's Information Unit's Press Center. MOA already has
some experience in providing TV and Radio broadcasting to farmers and this would be
strengthened.  Under the project, page space will be bought for the "Dekhan Farmers' Weekly"
edition on a weekly basis for the next two years and later priced and sold. Eventually sufficient
agricultural information will be readily available to farmers so that these papers do not need direct
support from MOA, with the Dekhan Farmer's Association at the national level taking over the full
responsibility of publishing all the demanded Dekhan farmers' information themselves in due
course.
Component Two: Relhabilitation of Critical Main and Field Level IrriRation and Drainaze Works:
(US$ 8.53 Million)
The main objectives of this componenit are to repair or replace the critical irrigation and drainage
facilities in the selected farms so as to create and sustain privatized agriculture at the raion and farm levels;
to assist in the establishment of water users' associations (WUAs) that are self-sustaining and can
effectively manage irrigation facilities; and to establish performance monitoring and evaluation of irrigation
water use.
The following activities would be undertaken:
(i) Strengthen existing tecmnical, design and planning capacity in the selected raions;
(ii) Rehabilitate and repair of the most critical pumping stations used for irrigation water
supply and for removing drainage water;
(iii) Repair or replace water control gates at the diversion site; and turnout gates which
regulate the flow from the main canal into tertiary channels;
(iv) Clean main irrigation canals and drainage collectors;
(v) Replace and repair existing water measurement devices by weirs and flumes;
(vi) Introduce drip and sprinkler irrigation systems as demonstrations in selected areas; and
(vii) Create water user's associations (WUA's) to operate and manage field level irrigation
and drainage systems. These WUA's need to be empowered, both legally and financially,
so that they can collect irrigation service fees from system beneficiaries and be able to use
the funds for proper system operation and maintenance.
-9-



Component Three: Provision of One-time Privatization Grant and Creation of Rural Savinus and
Credit Association: (US$ 5.46 Million)
This component would consist of the following:
(i) Provision of one-time priva. ization grant:
The project would provide a one-time grant to the private "family farms" to enable them to obtain a
minimal amount of the most critical agricultural inputs to increase crop and or animal productivity as soon
as possible. This grant would be limited to $300 (three hundred) per hectare of arable land to each family
farm subject to a maximum of $600 (six hundred) per farm family. For the purposes of providing the
one-time grant, the farm family is defined as a family unit consisting of a husband and wife and their
children; with/without their grandparents, and immediate relatives all living in one household. This is
referred to as "oila" in Tajik language.
This grant component will also include those farm families who have not yet been allocated land use
rights in accordance with the Presidential decrees to ensure equity, but who would be provided with land
shares in reserve lands. Only those family farms which meet the following eligibility criteria shall be
provided with this one-time privatization grant: (i) possession of a clear land use rights certificate; (ii)
account in the Tajiksberbank (Savings Bank of Tajikistan); (iii) membership in the WUA and an access to
assured and timely supply of water for agricultural activities; and (iv) engaged in agricultural activity as
the main source of livelihood. The grant would be provided in the form of cash to each household and
deposited directly into their respective household accounts, which are maintained at the raion branch of
Tajiksberbank.
(ii) Creation ofpilot rutral savings and credit associations (RSCA).
The main objective of this component is to initiate the creation and development of grass-roots,
member owned local savings and credit associations that would meet the short and medium term credit
needs of its members. The National Bank of Tajikistan has passed a resolution recently (January 1999)
permitting the establishment of such savings and credit associations, which would form the basis for this
component. As this would be the first of its kind in Tajikistan, it is proposed to test this participatory
approach in a few of the newly created Dekhan Farm Associations. Such initiatives are being implemented
in Bank and donor financed projects in some of the Former Soviet Union countries and Eastern Europe, for
example, Moldova and Albania. A short study tour to these countries for senior officials involved in
banking and finance from the National Bank of Tajikistan, (NBT), Ministry of Finance and for potential
organizers of such associations from the project farming units in the participating raions would be
undertaken to gain first hand overview and learn from the lessons of experience.
The project would support the following activities: (i) development of appropriate rules,
regulations, registration requirements and eligibility criteria governing the operations of RSCA's; (ii)
training in supervision and enforcement of guidelines for the staff of NBT; (iii) creation of rural savings
and credit associations in interested newly created associations of Dekhan farms in the pilot project areas;
and (iv) provision of start up capital and a credit line.  Initially, the services of a suitable international
Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) whichi has successfully designed and implemented rural based
savings and credit associations would be recruited to create, train, manage and operate the RSCA's. Funds
would be provided to the RSCA's at the prevailing National Bank of Tajikistan rediscount rate
denominated in Tajik Rubles which, in turn, would be made available as loans to members, at interest rates
determined by the members of the association based on market conditions, risks and type of security. The
-10-



Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. It is expected that initially, most of the loans would be
for working capital, though some medium term loans for farm equipment, tube wells, rehabilitation of field
irrigation and drainage works, etc could also be financed. Only those RSCA's which meet the following
eligibility criteria shall be provided with the start up capital and access to the credit line: (i) it is registered
by the National Bank of Tajikistan in accordance with the regulations of NBT number 83, dated January
26, 1999 and/or amendments thereof; (ii) maintain accounting standards according to established standards
of saving and credit associations and acceptable to the Association; (iii) has received training acceptable to
the Association; and (iv) is in compliance with prudential rules established by NBT for RSCA's activities.
The rural savings and Credit Associations meeting these eligibility criteria would be provided with: (i) an
amount of up to $50,000 (fifty thousand US Dollars) as start up capital; and (ii) access to a credit line of
up to US$150,000 (one hundred and fifty thousand US Dollars) to each RSCA for subsequent on-lending
to the members. Based on the results of these pilot activities, including credit and repayment performance
of the RSCA's and implementation of the statutes, regulations and eligibility criteria for loans to its
members, additional support to expand this activity to the raions, oblast, and national levels could be
considered in a subsequent operation by the World Bank.
Component Four: Project Manarement Unit in Dushanbe and Proiect Implementation Units in six
project raions: (USS 3.86 Million)
This component would provide support for the establishment and operations of the Project
Management Unit in Dushanbe and in Project Implementation Units in each of the six project raions. The
Project Management Unit would be responsible for overall coordination of the project, preparation of
annual work program and budget, providing overall guidance and assisting the Project Implementation
Units (PIU's) in the project raions in thie preparation, design and implementation of project activities,
carrying out all the work related to procurement, disbursement, accounts, audit, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting. The project will provide the necessary equipment, vehicles, rehabilitation of offices, training and
technical assistance in the areas of procurement, finance and accounting systems, project management and
operating cost.
E   CrponeM        !       Secbr      ~~Indicativ    a o      Bank        Xo
Compone n't                 Sector,       Cots~   %/ Of; fnnin             a
(US -M)   Total -     JS$M. finan.ing
1. Farm Restructuring Services:    AD - Rural          5.65       24.0      5.45       27.3
Land registration services and Rural    Development
Information and Advisory Services
2. Rehabilitation of Irrigation Works    Al - Irrigation &  8.53  36.3       6.55      32.7
and Water User's Association:      Drainage
3. Grant and Rural Credit          AC - Agricultural    5.46      23.2       5.20      26.0
Credit
4. Project Management Unit/Project    BI - Institutional  3.86    16.4       2.80      14.0
Implementation Units               Development
Total Project Costs                   23.50      100.0     20.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    23.50      100.0     20.00      100.0
-11-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project would support the implementation of the Government's program for farm
privatization and restructuring, which is aimed at providing security of land tenure to individuals in the
near term and creation of land rights markets in course of time. The willingness of the Government to make
appropriate changes in the legislative framework and implement the necessary institutional mechanisms
provides the basis for undertaking the proposed project. The continued cormnitment of the Government to
pursue agrarian reforms have been expressed in the policy letter for agricultural development.
Rehabilitation of critical irrigation infrastructure and transferring responsibility to water users for
operation and maintenance are consistent with both the Government's and Bank's emphasis on removing
critical bottlenecks and implementing cost recovery mechanisms.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project would yield principally two broad types of economic benefits, creating and
promoting a privatized form of agriculture, and, increasing individual farm family incomes. The estimated
population expected to directly benefit are about 28,000 persons who depend on agriculture as their
principal means of livelihood.
Creation and development of privatized agriculture: This would result from the following project
activities: (a) land registration system: Establishment of a modern and secure land registration system with
appropriate procedures would provide clarity of land titles, instill confidence in individuals regarding legal
rights to land use, and form the basis for land mortgaging and creation of land rights markets in the future;
(b) rural information and advisory services. The Project's emphasis on providing timely and wide
dissemination of various types of information, would increase the awareness of the opportunities presented
by a market economy, and would enable farmers to evaluate the relative profitability of altemative crop and
livestock activities and to enter new markets. The use of mass media and participatory workshops would
help build consensus in favor of private farming and build confidence in claiming land rights by nuclear
and extended families.
Increase individual farm family incomes: The provision of a one time grant in cash towards
procurement of essential agricultural inputs, viz., seeds, fertilizer, agricultural tools, along with the timely
availability of water are expected to have a positive effect on crop productivity and farm family incomes.
Cropping intensity is expected to increase from the present 80%  to 120%, as a result of introducing
multiple-cropping through cultivation of improved varieties of high yielding cotton, wheat, cold tolerant and
disease resistant potatoes, early maturing legumes, short duration vegetables, etc. Average per capita
incomes in the privatized farms are expected to increase between 25 and 50 percent as a result of increased
yield levels; for example the wheat crop yield is expected to increase by 2.5 tons/ha from the present level
of 1.8 tons/ha and yield levels of "raw" cotton are expected to increase from the present level of 2.2 tons/ha
to 3 tons/ha. Such yields were commonly exceeded in the past.
-12-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period for the project is five years from January 1999 to June 2004. The
executing agencies are: State Land Committee, Savings Bank of Tajikistan (Tajiksberbank) Ministry of
Water Resources (minvodkhoze), Ministry of Agriculture (Minselkhoze), raion administrations (Ispolnitol
vlast raiona) and raion level department of agriculture (Selkhozeupravleniya), and non-governmental
organization (NGO). The Government has established a Prime Ministerial level steering committee to
manage the farm restructuring program. The Government has also established a Project Management Unit
(PMU) for the implementation of this project under this committee. Following are the implementation
arrangements for the proposed project activities:
Overall project coordination:
The project management unit has been established in Dushanbe with the director and key staff in
place, offices have been renovated, and the office equipment has been procured and is operational. The
Director reports to the Prime Minister. The PMU is responsible for overall coordination of the project,
preparation of annual work program and budget, providing overall guidance and assisting the Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) in the raions in the preparation, design and implementation of project
activities, carrying out all the work related to procurement, disbursement, accounts, audit, monitoring,
evaluation and reporting. Project Implementation Units (PIU) in each of the project raions would be
established for coordinating project activities at the raion level. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance for $600,000 and a Japanese PHRD grant for $400,000 are being used to initiate start up project
activities and to procure the essential initial equipment, office supplies, operating services, training and
technical assistance.
Implementation of individual components:
(a)    Land Registration:
This would be carried out by the State Land Committee at Dushanbe and its offices in each of the
project raions. The State Land Committee (SLC), as provided in the Land Code, has the mandate for the
land registration and land administration. Implementation of the privatization of state and collective farms,
rural land registration and land record maintenance is the responsibility of the SLC. The ultimnate
responsibility for carrying out of land reform and farm restructuring rests with the SLC at Dushanbe.
While the SLC has primary responsibility in the Republic for land management and administration tasks, it
is also responsible as a technical executor of land reform policy established by the Government of
Tajikistan. The SLC uses the State Land Institute (GIPROZEM) for technical expertise and contracting
geodetic work when required to Geodesy (FAZO). The Land Code also provides many of the land
management functions to the raion administration. State and raion offices of the State Land Committee are
staffed by competent technical personnel. Although few in number and lacking in equipment and facilities
there is little reason to doubt their ability given sufficient training and resources.
At the raion levels, the raion administration (HUKUMAT), supported technically by SLC raion
branch, define the direction and scope of land reform activities. The raion level SLC provide technical
guidance and clarity to raion and Jomat level Land Commissions, and councils, resolving conflicts and
helping to implement the farm privatization and the land use right distribution process. Jomat and Raion
level officials and SLC staff responsible for land and agrarian reform implementation need training in the
procedures for allocation of land parcels. With respect to issue of land use right certificates and their
registration, currently the responsibility is of SLC. The Notaries, appointed and approved by the Ministry
-13-



of Justice, at the raion level act as a juridical registration authority for the private farmers associations as
an enterprise (dekhan farming enterprise). The key issue which needs to be addressed is the maintenance of
orderly records of the newly issued land use certificates and their registration. This is essential for the
smooth introduction of the permanent registration system and attention need to be given to the careful and
systematic storage of these land use registration data, with suitable precautions against theft, fire and loss
(e.g. by keeping duplicate records under fire proof custody). Land use-right distribution needs to be
followed with state guaranteed registration to ensure fully secured property rights and an efficient, formal
land market in future.
The State Land Institute has two sections. (i) The cadastre section dealing basically with soils and
land use maps. (ii) The survey section dealing with land survey. Under this project the land institute will be
helped to combine these two activities to take up the technical responsibility under the SLC for the
privatization of Sovkhozes and Kolkhozes. Presently, the land institute uses for survey works telescopic
alidades, plane tables and measuring tapes. They have no theodolites and no modem survey equipment. The
maps of farms are hand drawn although look to be of excellent quality are not accurate. The archives are
meticulously kept and detailed plans, soil surveys and other data are readily available. The Land Institute
would be equipped under this project to enable them to prepare accurate maps more efficiently and produce
land certificates accurately depicting the land parcels initially for the six project raions. Based on this
experience recommendations would be made to geographically expand this activity for enabling to cover the
entire country.
(b) Rural Information and advisory services:
The Project Management Unit (PMU) would be responsible for carrying out the rural information
and advisory services component. The MOA along with the Academy of Agricultural Sciences (AAS), and
international consultants of the PMU would prepare the necessary need based training modules for the
newly emerging private farming groups. Capacity would be built in the MOA for providing training and
information for development of private extension services. PMU would also contract local crop
development and research institutes to carry out field level demonstrations of modern off-the-shelf proven
varieties and cropping systems, and also make collaborative arrangements with international agricultural
research centers, such as ICARDA, CIMMYT and IIMI to bring in latest production and farm
management technology. These works would be executed under contracts procured through local
competitive bidding.
(c)    Rehabilitation of critical irrigation infrastructure:
This component would be implemented by local/international contractors procured through
competitive bidding procedures, under the supervision of the Ministry of Water Resources and an
internationally recruited quality control irrigation engineer. An overview of the different works proposed
under the irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation component (categories A to I ) that would be executed
following the competitive bidding process as per the bank guidelines for procurement of works is explained
in Amnex 2 Section B. These works would be executed under contracts procured through competitive
bidding.
(d) Provision of one-tinie privatization grants:
The Savings Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan, Tajiksberbank, would be used as an agency bank to
channel the funds to eligible private farm  families. It is a state owned institution with no outside
sharelholders. Its charter was adopted on 8 January 1992 by the Council of Ministers. An in-depth
-14-



financial study of the Tajiksberbank was undertaken by Arthur Andersen in May 1998. The study
identified several areas of strengths and those needing substantial improvement. Among the strengths were
consumer and citizens trust in the bank; presence of a massive branch and agency network, role as a
payroll provider for state agencies and pensions and it is backed by a government guarantee. Areas
needing improvement include the need for the development and implementation of a business strategy for
future growth and profitability; strengthening of internal audit and controls; improvement in its
management information system and provision of training to staff. Given the absence of other financial
institutions and its experience in channeling Government funds, Tajiksberbank is presently the most
suitable institution to undertake this task. In order to carry out this function. Tajiksberbank would receive a
commission of 3 percent of the grant amount processed and deposited in the farm family household
account. An agency agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Tajiksberbank was reviewed and
finalized during negotiations. The detailed procedures for the implementation of this sub-component have
been described in Annex 2.
(e) Pilot Rural Savings and Credit Association:
This pilot activity would be implemented by a qualified NGO, which has adequate experience and
shown a track record of establishing successful community based rural savings and credit associations,
especially in similar countries which are in transition. In light of the on-going reforms in the financial
sector, the involvement of other financial institutions at a later stage, would be considered. While most of
the emerging private family farms are highly skilled in the traditional methods of growing various types of
crops, they lack the knowledge and the experience to design, operate and manage a rural savings and credit
association. The NGO would provide essentially two functions - First it will be responsible for the design
and implementation of the operating rules and procedures and the establishment of pilot rural savings and
credit associations; and Second; it will assist with the operation and management of the credit line to be
provided to these associations. The results of this pilot exercise would be evaluated during its operation and
the lessons used for the preparation of a larger project focused on rural credit for possible financing by the
Bank in the future.  The supporting regulatory framework, supervision capacity and enforcement
mechanisms are being strengthened in the National Bank of Tajikistan with the assistance of the IMF and
the World Bank.
Tajikisberbank would be used as an agency bank to channel a portion of the funds received as
credit for the Project from IDA to provide sub-loans to rural savings and credit associations. The main
functions would be: (i) on-lending and recovery of sub-loans made to the rural savings and credit
associations; (ii) repayment to the Ministry of Finance of the interest and principal received from the
RSCA (which would be used for servicing the IDA credit); and (iii) maintaining proper custody of these
sub-loan funds and proper accounts, separated from its own accounts, which would be subject to audit
twice a year by an auditor acceptable to IDA. TSB shall receive a fee of one percent of the sub-loan
amount provided to the RSCAs and another one percent from the total amount of interest and principal
collected from the RSCAs in cash on an arrears basis. The execution of the Agency Agreement between the
Ministry of Finance and Tajiksberbank would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
-15-



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main rationale of the project is to respond to the urgent request of the Government of
Tajikistan to assist them to create the necessary supporting institutional mechanisms for land privatization
and farm restructuring and to actually implement these new procedures in a few representative former state
and collective farms. Lessons learnt from this would form the basis for the development of a larger
nationwide program. The project design which has been selected has two main features; the first being the
development of transparent and participatory approaches for land distribution and the establishment of a
secure land registration system; and the second being the support services and assistance required to create
and sustain a privatized form of agricultural system. This has resulted in the proposed project components
described in Section "C" of this PAD.
Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
a. A project focusing only on development of land allocation procedures and land registration
system: While this would be easy to implement and a valid option, the project would not immediately lead
to increased farm production, develop the private sector, and finally, would find difficulty to obtain
Government's support for what would be largely a technical assistance type operation. While this was the
basis for the rejection of what could be a stand alone operation, the proposed project has incorporated the
farm and land privatization as its main component.
b. A project focusing on rural credit: Although rural credit is much needed in Tajikistan, the
macro-economic environment, legislative framework and the present farm profitability levels are not
adequate to launch a stand alone rural credit operation at this time. However, recognizing the importance of
providing working capital to the newly emerging private farmers, the project team has proposed that a one
time grant for the purchase of essential agricultural inputs and farm implements, be given to the newly
privatized farms, who meet the eligibility criteria. Besides providing immediate assistance, the timely use of
improved inputs could jump start the farming activity and result in the much needed increase in farm
productivity in the privatized plots to seal acceptance of private fanning nationwide .
c. Linmited or nation wide project scope: The scope of any of the project components could vary
from a few raions to the whole country and the number of farms to be included in the project could be a few
to many. While the scope is limited by the availability of Government, IDA and beneficiary funds, other
main factors influencing the limited scope of the project were : the limited institutional capacity of the
Government and the various agencies; the unstable political and economic environrment, and the need to
demonstrate quick results in a few selected farms who are willing to implement transparent and
participatory approaches to distribute land and property assets and to establish the financial viability of
private farming. The farms chosen for undertaking the privatization and restructuring process represent the
major agro-ecological systems; have different cropping patterns; different farm sizes which are
representative of regions of the country and most important, the selected farm and raion administrations are
committed to privatize and restructure the farm operations. Therefore, the project scope is limited to six
raions and ten farms.
-16-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                        Project                    (PSR) Ratings
I__ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __  ______ _(Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-flnanced                                                        Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
1. Agricultural Recovery and Social   IDA                                 S              S
Credit
Institution Building and Technical   IDA                                  S              S
Assistance Project (IBTA)
Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project    IDA                                  S              S
Structural Adjustment Credit 1       IDA                                  U              S
Emergency Flood assistance           IDA                                  S              S
Rural Infrastructure Project         IDA                                 NA
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience in countries which are undergoing transition from a centrally planned to a market
economy has proved that land privatization and farm restructuring is best undertaken in a phased manner
consistent with  the  development of markets, functioning  financial intermediaries  and  overall
macro-economic stabilization to yield desired results. The process is accelerated as the distortions in the
economy are eliminated, procedures refined, legal systems developed and supporting institutions evolve to
provide timely support services. Fundamental to this program is to give titles to farm land and property in
the hands of farm members - with an opportunity to voluntarily decide how to use these newly acquired
rights. Assistance programs should address the severe constraints faced by the privatized farms, in
particular: a). the lack of appropriate information on re-organization laws and procedures; and b).
inadequate institutional capability to effect the transfer, limited technology choices, need for focused social
services, lack of working capital and investment funds for restructuring production systems appropriate for
private small-scale farming, and the poor state of irrigation and road infrastructure. In all these respects,
successful initiation of private farming in Azerbaijan under the Azerbaijan Farm Privatization Project (Cr-
2933-AZ) has been a major source of lessons learned for this project. The proposed project takes into
consideration these factors and the components have been designed to address the critical constraints
identified from the lessons of experience.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The main indications of borrower commitment to the project are:
a. Establislunent of Prime Ministerial level committee for farm restructuring: Realizing the danger
of increased poverty and potential for social conflict resulting from unfair allocation of land lease rights in
selected regions, the Government has established a Prime Ministerial level committee to manage the farm
restructuring process and has committed itself to making future land distribution fair and equitable;
b. Issuance of a Presidential resolution on the establishment of the coordinating center for the
Farm Privatization Support Project, recruitment of staff for project implementation, provision of office
-17-



facilities and directing the Ministries, Governors of Khatlon and Leninabad oblasts, towns and regions to
extend full cooperation for carrying out activities required for the farm privatization support project; and
c. Utilization of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance: The Governnent of Tajikistan
applied for, signed on September 8, 1998, and is now using a PPF advance for the establishment of the
Project Management Unit, training of staff in procurement, financial and accounting systems, and for
initiating critical start up activities required for implementation of project components.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The IDA's support to the Government of Tajikistan in the agricultural sector would provide the
needed impetus to formulate and implement transparent procedures (an area where IDA involvement has
already had an impact) for the distribution and allocation of farm lands and to create sustainable private
farming. This would also provide the IDA with an opportunity to advise and find ways to remove key
obstacles in both the legislative and institutional mechanisms which currently hinder the process of land
privatization and farm restructuring. The IDA has a comparative advantage in this area as it has been
deeply involved in sustaining the peace efforts and creating the conditions for macro-economic stability
following several years of civil conflict. It also has the experience in farm privatization to draw on (both
successful and otherwise) from virtually every other former republic of the FSU, including particularly
those of Central Asia. The activities proposed in the proposed project would, therefore, build and
complement the IDA's program being currently undertaken and also those being undertaken by other donors
and multi-lateral agencies.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
o Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$ million; ERR = 26 %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
* Other
The main benefit of this project is the development of new models of farm restructuring, farm
support and production structures necessary for the transformation of the agricultural sector into a
competitive market oriented system and which could be replicated in other parts of the country. This
requires reasonably secure and registered land rights; improved information and advisory services;
favorable relative agricultural input and output prices; a combination of credit/grants to provide for
seasonal working capital requirements, longer term finance for essential farm equipment, land development
including leveling and rehabilitation of irrigation systems to provide reliable water supply to farms and
relief from the obligation to finance social assets. The Government's reforms in the policy areas have been
aimed at providing producer incentives through : (i) the removal of price controls on all agricultural
commodities; (ii) elimination of the state order system; and (iii) commencing the privatization of cotton
ginneries. While the agricultural producers have benefited from these reforms, a letter of development
policy with the minimum set of policy conditionalities to ensure farm profitability and agricultural
competitiveness has been agreed upon for board presentation.
Economic Benefits: The project would yield two broad types of economic benefits, one, create and
promote an enabling environment for privatized agriculture and two, increase in farm incomes.
Enabling environment for privatized agriculture: This would result from the following project
-18-



activities:
a. Land Registration Services. The modernization and security of the land registration system
with appropriate procedures would provide clarity of land use right titles, instill confidence in
individuals over legal rights to land use, and form the basis for land use right mortgaging terms,
which would contribute to the development of land use right markets. During the project period,
it is expected that about 5000 - 6000 land use titles would be issued to dekhan farms (private
individuals);
b. Rutral Information and Advisory Services.  The farm information and advisory services
component is critical for ensuring that farmers are well informed about business and organizational
alternatives and how to function in a market economy. The project's emphasis on timely and wide
dissemination during the privatization and restructuring process beyond the project raions is
expected to have a significant impact on similar processes in other farms. The use of mass media
and participatory workshops to build consensus and to develop community based programs is
expected to promote "project ownership" by the beneficiaries and the various agencies - critical
elements to ensure speedy project implementation. Increasing awareness of market economy would
enable the privatized farm units to evaluate relative profitability of alternative crop and livestock
activities and to enter new markets. The training and tecluhical assistance being provided is
expected to result in a large number of trained people in the privatization process, modem farm and
enterprise management practices appropriate to a market economy;
c. Creation of Pilot Rural Savings and Credit Associations: This would be the first of its kind in
Tajikistan, to test this participatory approach in a few of the newly created Dekhan Farm
Associations with its own size, timing, scale, procedures, terms and conditions for obtaining credit.
Training would be imparted to the members in credit appraisal methods, risk evaluation and
techniiques for financing working capital and investment requirements for privatized farm
structures, puffing in place appropriate accounting systems and providing credit on the basis of
financial, economic, social and technical viability. These are expected to provide valuable lessons
in the development of a community based rural financial system; and
d. Reorienting thle Functions of Agricultural Agencies. The management approach suggested
for this project is expected to begin the process of transformation of the traditional functions of the
Ministry of Agriculture at the state and raion levels. At the state level, it would help to instill a
team work ethic, while the collaborative work of MOA, MOWR, SLC is expected to improve work
efficiency and reduction in duplication of tasks. At the raion level, the new irrigation and drainage
systems based on hydrological boundaries would encourage greater efficiency and sustainability
and make it easier to collect of water charges and foster the formation of water user's associations.
Quantification of these institutional benefits would be made through periodic monitoring of select
indicators.
Increase in farm incomes: Given the nature of this project, and the difficulties in predicting the
exact number of privatized individual sub projects to be financed, a project wide economic rate of return is
necessarily indicative. However, preliminary analysis of farm models indicates increase in crop profitability
and positive impact on farm incomes. With privatization, changes in the present cropping pattern are
expected to occur which will involve an increase in perennial forage legumes, introduction of maize,
intensification of cotton, wheat, fruits and vegetables. Improvement in the irrigation and drainage system
would increase the cropping intensity from the presen1t 70 percent to 120 percent, which would result from
the cultivation of early maturing pulses, oilseeds, corn and vegetables in addition to traditional wlheat,
-19-



cotton or fodder.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = 21 %
Project Cost, accounting, audit, financial and reporting arrangements
Project Costs:
The project is estimated to cost US$23.5 Million.  The cost of various components,
sub-components and detailed cost tables are in the project files. The foreign exchange component has been
estimated at US$ 17.0 Million or 72 percent of the total project cost. This cost includes physical and price
contingencies of US$1.39 Million and US$2.36 Million respectively. The project costs exclude duties and
taxes, as the goods and services to be procured under the project would be exempted. Physical
contingencies vary between 0 percent to 20 percent depending on the items. Local costs have been
converted to their US$ equivalent using an exchange rate of 1000 Tajik rubles to one US Dollar. Price
contingency estimates assume an increase in local currency costs of 10, 9, 8, 7, and 6 percent per year from
1999 to 2003 (which is the projected inflation rates); and 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8 and 2.9 percent from 1999 to
2003 for foreign currency cost.
Project Financing:
The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$ 20 million, by the Government of
Tajikistan and beneficiaries. Funds from IDA would be used to finance a portion of the goods, civil works,
training, technical assistance, grant, credit and operating costs required for implementation of the project
components. Due to the tight budgetary constraints and fiscal difficulties faced by the Government at the
present time, the IDA will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs and 46 percent of the local
costs. This would result in an IDA contribution of 85 percent of the total project costs, and the remainder
15 percent would be financed by the Government and beneficiaries. The operating costs would be financed
on a declining basis during the project implementation period. All taxes and duties for the goods, works
and services required for project implementation would be financed by the Government of the Republic of
Tajikistan. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the project financing plan; budgetary
provisions and allocation of counterpart funds, and deposit of an amount of $50,000 (fifty thousand)
equivalent in local currency in the project account established in Tajprombank to meet the initial
requirement for counterpart funds for project implementation.
Project Preparation Facility:
A project preparation facility is currently being executed for US$600,000. This is being used to
start up project activities and procure essential equipment needed for strengthening land registration
services, vehicles, office equipment, computers and related accessories, operating materials, establishment
of the Project Management Unit and the Project Implementation Units in two raions; training and technical
assistance in the areas of land registration, farm information and advisory services, project management,
accounting and finance.
Financial Management and Accounting
A certified Financial management specialist (FMS) has evaluated the current financial management
and accounting practices and the steps necessary to institute an adequate financial management and
accounting systems to meet OP/BP 10.02. The evaluation was prepared on the basis of consultants reports
-20-



and discussions with the project team and the financial management officer for the project who has been
involved in the preparation of this project from its early stages. Financial Management arrangements for
the project are detailed in Annex 6. All necessary steps would be taken to ensure that the project complies
with the relevant Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02).
Accounting.
Tajikistan does not have any established accounting systems which adheres to International
Accounting Standards although there are standard principles and procedures to be followed in presenting
accounting schedules to the Governrment. Consultants have reviewed the project requirement and have
recommended an internationally acceptable accounting system, which would be implemented for the
project.
Separate books of accounts would be established at the six raions which form the project sites and
would be integrated into the PMU accounts on a monthly basis. The proposed accounting system is being
developed by a consultant using an off the shelf software. The accounting for this project would be
maintained in accordance with International Accounting Standards.
Given the dearth of local expertise in the areas of finance and accounting, an international
consultant would be recruited for the first two years of the project to assist the PMU to keep its book of
accounts in a computerized accounting system and to provide training to the accounting staff on
accounting, financial management and use of computer software.
Audit Arrangements:
Steps would be taken to appoint an external auditor for the Project as a condition of its
effectiveness. This would include (i) advertising in the local newspapers to invite "expressions of interest"
from local audit firms; and (ii) short-listing of at least five audit firms. The auditor's first task would be to
audit funds employed under the Project Preperation Facility. An Auditor acceptable to the IDA would be
appointed within the first four months of effectiveness of the project. During Negotiations, agreement was
reached that the audit of the project would be undertaken in accordance with International Auditing
Standards. Audited financial statements for the project would be sent to IDA within six months after the
end of every fiscal year.
Reporting Arrangements:
In addition to submission of annual audited financial statements, unaudited financial statements
would be submitted to the Bank within tlree months after the end of every fiscal year. The PMU would
also be required to submit to the IDA quarterly project management reports per guidelines issued by the
IDA under (OP/BP 10.02).
Disbursements:
Disbursements under the project will initially be based on traditional disbursement procedures, due
to lack of institutional capacity in financial and project management, as the present accounting systems do
not adhere to international standards, and banking infrastructure is in its early stages of development. A
project financial management system (FMS), conforming to the LACI guidelines, will be designed and
completed during the first year of implementation through a time bound action plan (see annex 6 of this
-21-



PAD). The project financial management reports (PMRs) will be generated from the FMS from third year
onwards. All necessary steps would be taken to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank
policies (OP/BP 10.02). The proposed accounting and finance system would have the built-in capacity to
ensure a submission of simplified PMRs until PMRs meet the requirements of the Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI) as at section 3.02 (a) of LACI implementation Handbook. During the
negotiations, agreement was reached on the implementation of satisfactory procedures for financial and
accounting systems, internal control ofproject accounts; appointment of external auditors acceptable to
the Bank for the project; submission of six month work program and budget for the project to IDA for
review and approval at least one month before the commencement of each proposed work progranm.
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
The activities proposed in all the components use simple and tried technologies. The land
registration system being proposed is based on existing land cadastre maps, farm boundaries would be
surveyed using GPS or triangle based ground survey techniiques, compilation of legal cadastral base maps
would use existing topographic maps, and demarcation of individual parcels would use simple markers,
such as wooden stakes, etc. The land register would be maintained on personal computers, equipped with
easy to use software and security systems. The irrigation works involve rehabilitation using standard
engineering design and teclmiques. The project would promote locally adapted varieties for the most
important crops, viz Atey 85 and Mahmoody varieties of wheat; Vaksh-9326 and Meliergaon varieties of
cotton; and Cardinal variety of potatoes. These seed varieties would be ensured to be of foundation/elite
level, so that they could be used for the next five crop seasons by the farmers. The stocks being held by the
seed multiplication centers in Tajikistan would be processed and tested for vigor and germination
characteristics (which should be of at least 94%). The involvement of International Research Institutes such
as ICARDA, CIMMYT, CIP and IIMI in conjunction witlh the Tajik Academy of Agricultural Sciences
and local agricultural research institutes would bring new agricultural and irrigation technologies in the
project areas; principally in the areas of multiple cropping, agronomic practices for small holder
agriculture, water management, sustainable farming systems, etc.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
b. Project management: The establishment of the Project Management Unit and the appointment of key
staff early oni during project preparation has had a positive impact on getting the most important activities
underway. All the concerned implementing agencies, viz.; State Land Committee, Ministry of Water
Resources, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance and Savings Bank of Tajikistan; oblast and raion
administrations and Departments of Agriculture in each of the project raions hiave been involved during the
processing of this project. Timely achievement of project objectives would depend on the continued
cooperation between the PMU and the concerned agencies, providing performance based incentives to
project staff, provision of counterpart funds by the GovernmT-ent and building the necessary skills and
implementation capacity in PMU and PIU's at the raion level.
-22-



5. Social:
Social assessment was carried out by CARE International (Tajikistan) to prepare a socio-economic
and demographic profile of those living in the project farms proposed for privatization. The team completed
the assessment of Haqiqat Dekhan farm association - one of the pilot farms chosen under this project. The
survey found that there was a general lack of information and awareness among the farm members about
the charter of the dekhan association, their rights and responsibilities and how to operate as a family farm.
The most vulnerable families were identified to be those witl big families with only one working member
and consisting of father, mother and seven or more children. No access to the banking system exists and
about 60 percent reported that they were not familiar with aniy type of banking services. Most of the farm
members operating as a private family farm continue to be inexperienced in family farming, and most of the
farm members at present do not have the requisite skills to operate and manage their own farm lands. The
main recommendations of the team are: (i) provide information and advisory services to the newly
emerging farm units on individual rights, legal reforms and regulations associated with land distribution,
allocation, and land use rights; (ii) develop monitoring and institutional mechanisms to ensure that the
one-time privatization grant be used for agricultural purposes; (iii) standard processes and procedures be
developed for land distribution and allocation, especially in those project farms where the process has yet to
take place; (iv) create a viable, local credit system, which would cater to the needs of the newly emerging
private farmers; and (v) for the most vulnerable group, besides the provision of one-time grant, providing
access to land, credit and training in farming techniques would be essential. During negotiations
agreement was reached to include programs which would protect the interests of socially vulnerable
groups such as priority in the allocation of grants, access to land use, credit and vocational training.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category El A El C
1X B UI Fl
a. The environmental impact of the proposed project is expected to be small, but positive. The proposed
project would help improve water use efficiency, check the process of salinization, water logging and
arrest the process of land degradation. It is expected to foster more prudent use of privatized
agricultural land. The ownership of land assets is expected to instill a greater sense of individual and
comrnunity responsibility, perhaps sufficient to collectively take measures to protect the environment.
The land use maps using modern aerial survey will enhance the ability to integrate data sets into the
land register with possible beneficial applications for monitoring and control of the environment.
b. Justification/Rationale for category rating: Though the environmental impact of the proposed project
is expected to be positive, Category "B" is selected because of the possible indirect impact of the
privatization and restructuring of the former state and collective farms in possibly leading to over
grazing and degradation of the pasture, as private farmers seem to save in the form of livestock. New
challenges may also emerge in the water and land resources usage with the restructuring of the farms.
Use of pesticides by the restructured farms may also increase from the present depressed levels
utilizing the grants under the project. In these circumstances, Category "B" has been selected
because of the need to monitor the possible indirect impact of the farm privatization under the
project. During Negotiations, agreement was reached on measures to be taken to provide advice
on the sustainable management of the grazing lands, prudent management of land and protection
against degradation, development and implementation of Environmental Management Plans for
sub-projects, and measures for the judicious use of agricultural chemicals. Project funds shall not
be used to purchase environmentally hazardous agro-chemicals.
-23-



7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe wlhy not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project design advocates a participatory and transparent approach for the allocation of land
and property assets. The project would build in the following features in order to strengthen this approach
and to consistently involve the beneficiaries in the implementation of the project: (i) representation of the
private farmers in the committee for farm restructuring at the state, oblast and raion levels; (ii) creation of
water user's associations and groups to ensure farmer's participation in decision making for water
scheduling, distribution, cost recovery for operation and maintenance, etc., and (iii) wide-spread
dissemination and awareness campaign using different mass media of the privatization procedures,
individual rights, etc.
b. Other key stakeholders:
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project has been designed to ensure that the process of land privatization and farm
restructuring takes place in a systematic, transparent and equitable manner, consistent with the strategy
outlined in the CAS and agreed with the Government. The following factors would be critical to the
sustainability of each of the project interventions proposed: (i) the ability and the speed with which the
newly created private farming units are able to increase their farm productivity and incomes - sufficient
enough to implement cost recovery mechanisms related to water user fees, land tax, fee based advisory
services, and other measures to be identified during project implementation; (ii) the degree to which
volunteer groups of private farmers could be formed to undertake minor irrigation rehabilitation and other
needed support services required for farming - which could be more cost effective than conventional
methods; and (iii) potential savings which could be realized in the Ministry of Agriculture as a result of
redefining its role and reduction in staff (this is also being addressed by the proposed Second Institution
Building and Technical Assistance Project). However, the fiscal sustainability of giving one-time grants as
incentives to start private farming and needs of the farming community for such external infusions of cash
to start up private farming, would have to be revisited and allocations changed as necessary during project
execution. The project's design would offer such a flexibility.
-24-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Political stability and continued        H          Government's recent actions to give the
peace                                                  opposition key positions and continued
support by international donors for
restoring macro-economic stability.
2. Government's willingness to accept       M          Government commitment has been
transparent procedures for equitable                   obtained, which would be supported by
distribution of land use rights and                    strengthening of the State Land
legitimize the rights of dekhan farms                  Committee with the necessary powers,
already issued.                                        personnel, equipment, supplies, etc. as
soon as possible. Conducting mass
media campaign to promote awareness
among the people about their rights to
obtain land lease rights.
3. Ability of the newly privatized farms    M          Providing information, advice, on-farm
to undertake farming and to realize full               demonstration, and periodic visits and
benefits from the initial grant being                  follow up by local agricultural
provided                                               specialists.
4. Provision of timely and adequate          S         Design and tender documents and
water for irrigation                                   procurement procedures to be initiated
as soon as possible for
rehabilitation/restoration of irrigation
works, esp. starting with those which
require minimum repairs.
5. Institutional capacity and                S         Project steering committee established
coordination between various agencies                  at the Prime Minister level, PMU to be
and others involved                                    strengtlhened with appropriate staff;
provide adequate incentives based on
skills and job performance to attract
qualified local staff, and additional
compensation to be provided for those
stationed in the project raions.
From Components to Outputs
Overall Risk Rating                          5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-25-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The main controversial aspect is the possibility of creating inequities among the new private
farmers in terms of allocations of land, start - up grants, etc; and resistance by the local governments
towards incorporating the participatory approaches for the allocation and distribution of land use rights to
those farm members in the project farms who have not yet received their land Shadatnama (certificates).
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) Appointment of an external auditor, acceptable to IDA to carry out the audit of the advance
received under the Project Preparation Facility;
(ii) Deposit of an amount of US$50,000 (fifty thousand dollars) equivalent in local currency in
the project account established in Tajprombank to meet the initial requirement of counterpart funds
required for project implementation;
(iii) Conclusion of the Agency Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and Tajiksberbank;
(iv) Establishlment of financial management system satisfactory to IDA; and
(v)Establishnient of a procurement management system, satisfactory to IDA, in the Project
Management Unit.
Condition of Disbursement:
Submission of the first six month work program and budget for the project to IDA for review and
approval, at least one month before the commencement of the proposed work program;
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Audits and Accounts:
(i) Standard auditing covenants will apply; and
(ii) The Borrower will open and properly maintain a Special Account
Management:
The Project Management Unit and Project Implementation Units would be maintained and
adequately staffed.
Counterpart Funds:
A line item would be provided in the National Budget annually for the provision of local funds
required for the implementation of each of the project components.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting:
-26-



(i) Standard reporting covenants will apply;
(ii) Project Management Unit would report to IDA on a half yearly basis the status of the agreed
key monitorable indicators; and.
(iii) A project design and implementation review would be undertaken by IDA in December 2000
to determine the lessons learnt and make appropriate changes if needed, in the project objectives
and components.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
E 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
3 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Govermnent of Tajikistan has appointed a Project Director and allotted office spaces in the
Ministry of Agriculture for the Project Management Unit for the proposed project. A short term
international procurement consultant is assisting the Project Management Unit to obtain the necessary
office and other essential equipment, vehicles, supplies, furniture, rehabilitation of offices and provide on
the job training to newly recruited staff. The process recruitment of the additional key staff for the PMU is
in process and is expected to be completed by the end of June 1999. A short two week training was
provided during in October 1998 by the International Land Information Services, Arnheim, the Netherlands
to ten specialists from the State Land Committee and its affiliated departments on basics of computer
operating systems, MS Office, GIS and an overview of Arcview, how to digitize small maps, and scanning
aerial photographs.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Thirunlangal    .ampath             uin M. Cleaver                  Ishrat Husaan --
Team    der                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Country Manager/Director
-27-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Fair and equitable land  - degree of people         - periodic surveys measuring  - Changes in land legislation,
allocation and distribution    participation        level of public satisfaction.   as needed, supported by
processes and mechanisms    - size distribution of land  - size distribution of land  implementation mechanisms
holding                   holdings                   - Government commitment to
- level of public understanding                      implement participatory
of processes and individual   - monitoring of court cases   approaches for land allocation
rights                    and resolutions related to land and distribution and
- decrease in land disputes,   disputes              dissemination of information
incidence of social conflicts                       through mass-media.
arising out of land allocation                       - Guiding by central
government of local
Hukumats in allocation of
land
Development of land use  - number of transactions   records of trades in land use   - Legislation allowing the
rights/ lease markets.                              rights                     creation of land use rights
markets
- government role limited to
regulatory function to ensure
fairness and competitiveness-
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Development of private    - number of land lease titles   - land registration records    - timely establishment,
farming                   issued                                               operation and maintenance of
- number of individual/family                       land registration offices &
private farms established                           records
- changes in crop and
livestock yields
Increase farmer incomes   - changes in farm incomes    - periodic surveys of farm  - distortion-free price and
household production,     marketing policies
consumption and incomes
Develop representative models - Number of non-project farms - periodic surveys  - no trade restrictions and
for wider geographical    adopting similar processes and                       internal border controls on
replicablity              procedures                                           movement of goods and
services
-28-



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
- Privatization of former state - Number of state and  Progress reports and IDA   - conducive policy and
and collective farms       collective farms privatized    supervision             legislative framework for
- Reconstruction and       - Length of canals                                     development of private
rehabilitation of critical  rehabilitated, no. of pumps                           farming
irrigation and drainage works restored, water control
- Establishment of water user' structures, sub-surface drains,                    Use of appropriate technology,
s associations             area effectively irrigated                             timely completion of works,
- Establishment of land    - Number of WUA's                                      ensuring quality during
registration services      - Number of fully functional                           construction
land registration offices                              necessity for group consensus
Decentralized system, public
disclosure of information
- Establishment of rural   - Number of fully functional                           Timely provision of adequate
information and advisory   RIAS centers                                           supplies of key agricultural
services (RIAS)                                                                   inputs, farm implements for
private farmers to practice
improved farming techniques
- One-time grants to newly    - Number of independent                             Compliance with agreed
created private            farmers benefited and amount                           eligibility for providing grants
independent/family farmers   of grant provided                                    and implementation
mechanisms and support
from Ministry of Finance.
-29-



Project Components JI      nus  bdo o ec              rjc eot                  (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Farm Support Services
All inputs would be monitored Qualified staff in place in land
(i) Land Registration           3.31            and evaluated through regular registration offices in each of
Services                                            progress and disbursement   the project raions and in
reports                   Dushanbe;
Trained and motivated staff
(ii) Rural Information                                                     with communication skills;
and advisory services                2.33                                      Support for creation of WUA'
s and cost recovery
mechanisms to ensure
sustainability
2. Rehabilitation of irrigation      7.76                                      Continued security in areas
and drainage works, and                                                        where rehabilitation works are
to take place
Water Users' Associations         0.77
3. Grant to privatized               3.71                                      Preparation of satisfactory
farms                                                                       designs, qualified contractors
to undertake construction
works and availability of
materials
4. Rural credit associations         1.75                                      Measures to prevent leakage
and misuse of grants.
Support from MOF
5. Project Management Unit           3.86
and Implementation Units
-30-



Annex 2: Project Description
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
By Component:
Project Component i - US$5.7 million
A. Farm Support Services Component:
The main objective of this component is to provide the necessary support services for the
development of procedures and institutional mechanisms at the state and selected regions to ensure fair,
secure and equitable transfer of land and other farm assets to private individuals or groups; and to create
sustainable family farms.
A. 1. Land Registration Services:
Background and Scope
This sub-component would assist the State Land Committee (SLC) to improve existing land
privatization and land registration systems for rural areas. The system to be developed is national in scope
and therefore requires institutional development at the central level in Dushanbe; the establishment of a
national capacity for in-service training; and a program for training for the future requirements of the SLC.
The project will be implemented initially in ten farms. These farms are located in six raions (see Map ) .
The sub-component will ensure that the farm privatization process in each of the ten farms is fair and
publicly acceptable. The component will also help the SLC to improve the working conditions and practices
of the two Oblast and six rayon offices involved in the project.
The National Commission on reorganization of Agricultural Enterprises, established by a
Presidential Decree # 522 of along with the accompanying regulations issued in June 1996, has begun its
work on a program of land reform and privatization by initiating privatization of the Kolkhozes and
Sovkhozes wherever the workers union evinced interest and expressed desire to form private farm units
(Dekhan). Many farms have reorganized into structures such as Joint Stock Companies, Lease Enterprises
or Collective Farms and there is often a lack of understanding by the people concerned of their rights or the
alternatives that they could have been offered. The process is strongly controlled in a "top-down"
privatization process. The cost of privatization is excessive and the process through which the potential
Dekhan Farmers have to go is convoluted and time consuming. A new Dekhan Farm can expect to pay in
excess of $200 before collecting a Certificate of Land Use Right and deal with the Hukumat, Jamot,
Commission for Restructuring Agricultural Enterprises, Land Committee, Notary, Ministry of Justice,
Bank, Statistics Agency and Tax Authority prior to becoming the registered User. In view of the low
national income the cost and complicated process is a substantial deterrent to privatizing.
Land records are kept both in SLC Dushanbe and at the local offices, but they are not kept in a
format suitable for easy access or for enabling the future land market. Use rights are recorded at the SLC
in hand written ledgers. They are listed chronologically and require laborious searching when trying to
locate entries. When the stage is reached that records are listed in tens of thousands instead of hundreds it
will be impossible to use this system. The system is not parcel based and suffers from the associated
drawbacks that allow duplication of entries for the same parcel, time consuming searches and difficulty to
computerize. While it is necessary to initially concentrate on land that the SLC has been involved with, it
-31-



would be a general aim to include all land in the land registers and ensure the system can be used for both
land and buildings. This will be necessary for the future land market and to be able to deal with disputes in
those areas.
Detailed Description of the Sub- component
The sub-component will not only ensure that the ten farms in the six raions are privatized and
registered, but will establish a national land registration system and training center that will enable all land
rights to be registered in a modern and effective registration system throughout the country. The training
center, national office, Oblast offices and six rayon offices will be fully equipped and functional to cope
with privatization wherever it may occur.
Legal Review.
In addition to the Constitution of Tajikistan the legal framework for the land reform and farm
privatization process has been provided by a number of Laws and Presidential decrees enacted during the
recent years. The most important of them are: the Law on Dehkan (Private) Farm, the Law on Land
Reforn, the Law on Payment for Land, the Land Code, and the Decree of the President of Tajikistan On
the Reorganization of Agricultural enterprises. Redistribution of land to private farmers after
transformation of collective farms, denationalization and privatization of state farms is one of the main
elements of Government policy in agricultural sector.
Under the Constitution of Tajikistan land is an exclusive ownership of the state. The existing land
legislation drafted and adopted in response to changing economic needs since the dissolution of the Soviet
Union is designed rather to reform land tenure system to the benefit of private farms then to change the
entire land ownership system. Nevertheless it provides a sufficient basis for the implementation of the
proposed project. Under the Law on Land Reform and the Land Code land can be granted to an individual
for a life-long inheritable possession for the purposes of private farming. In addition to that land for
agricultural use can also be obtained by private farmers under lease arrangements with other primary land
users or from state land reserve. A serious drawback of the existing legal environment for the purposes of
the project is the lack of regulation of land rights transactions, including mortgage, and retardation of land
market. In this regard the Decree of the President of Tajikistan On the Disposition of Land Use Rights"
dated June 22, 1998 represents a very irnportant first step for the development of land rights market in
Tajikistan.
During the implementation of the project a legal consultant will be engaged to review the current
legal framework and regulations in rural land relations, to make recommendations on necessary changes
and amendments to the existing legislation, and to assist SLC in specific legal drafting.
Survev/ Mapping.
Survey requirements for privatization and registering rights to land relate to the base mapping
needed for decision-making and design of a plan for land allocation. The properties allocated would then be
surveyed in such a way that the boundaries can be relocated in time of dispute. This will also ensure that
the same parcel of land is not allocated to different parties and ensure equity in parcel allocation. In
Tajikistan the base mapping for rural areas is provided at 1:10,000 scale (or 1:25,000 scale for more
remote areas) by a joint venture called 'Fazo'. The maps are regularly updated and are used as the base by
the SLC for: recording farm boundaries; land use; irrigation channels; soils types; allocation of land to
Dekhan farms; erosion problems; etc. Existing professional staff were trained in Akmola (Kazakhstan) or
-32-



Russia. Future requirements for professional staff are to be recruited following training provided by the
Tajik Agrarian University
Fazo is the old "Geodezia" that has become a joint venture with Russian partners. The office in
Dushanbe used to be the Viskhagi unit in Moscow. Fazo and the SLC staff currently use only optical
theodolites and optical tacheometric methods that are long outdated. The work output would be increased
dramatically with the use of total stations and/or GPS equipment. Total station equipment would be used
by local staff quickly with little additional training. GPS runs on coordinates based on WGS84 and can not
be used on coordinates based on Krazovski without additional work transforming coordinate systems. This
does need to be done to bring Tajikistan into conformity with much of the rest of the world and so that new
satellite based equipment can easily be used. Processing of the data requires at least one high level
technician familiar with intricate survey calculations and computer programming.
GPS is required to develop the capacity for its use and design a program for converting the existing
coordinate system to one based on WGS84. The GPS would also be used for confirming the accuracy of
Kolkhozl Sovkhoz boundaries, for control points in flat terrain and for training. One set of precise GPS
equipment and associated hard- and software will be purchased for research and development and to begin
transforming the Geodetic Coordinate Network. Further, less precise, sets will be purchased for additional
survey work. Both sets would be used for training purposes.
Each rayon will be provided with one set of equipment for their regular work. When intensive
periods of work occur in the Land Institute (GIPROZEM) assist with survey work and sufficient equipment
would be provided at the SLC central office and the Leninabad Oblast Land Committee office in Khojand
to allow this support. The equipment can also be hired out to private contractors when necessary. The total
station surveying equipment and associated hard- and software will be purchased for the SLC central
office and for rayon offices. They will also be available for their contractors to use on a lease basis.
Funds for private contracting of survey work are available. Training will also be provided. It should also
be noted that there are an estimated 100 unemployed surveyors in Tajikistan. Private contracting of survey
work may bring them back into employment either with Fazo or as independent private practitioners.
The Land Committee would be provided with a black and white AO scanners, AO digitizer, AO
plotter and computers to run ArcView, MapInfo and other modem software suitable for providing both
digital mapping and associated databases for recording ownership rights. Existing maps can be scanned
into the system and be readily available for updating, plotting Dekhan boundaries and printing results. In
order to make use of the result it would be useful to transfer the map images and associated data to rayon
offices. This could best be done with a CD writer. Existing mapping will be utilized and updated with
equipment provided under the project. Modem survey equipment will rapidly increase the rate of the
current privatization and ensure sufficient accuracy to limit the number of future disputes.
Training.
Establishment of a successful training program is key to the long term success of the privatization
process, land registration and land market activity. The Tajik Agrarian University is well staffed and has
an excellent relationship with the SLC. A great deal of training would be provided under the project. The
University would be designated as the training center for the project In addition to the current courses on
geodetic and land survey, courses on land registration and land markets would be included. Basic
computing courses and courses for advanced work would be developed. Short courses would be developed
for graduates and persons currently in-service. This will be required for project implementation. The staff
at the University have the capability and capacity to provide these courses once they themselves have
-33-



received training.
A computer center consisting of computers, printers, a plotter and a scanner will be provided under
the project. Standard software for digital mapping, GIS and networking will be included. Access to
Internet will also be provided. The GPS equipment mentioned above plus three total stations and associated
hard- and software will be purchased for training purposes. The training program will commence with a "
training the trainers" program. The Tajik Agricultural University will be equipped and trained to conduct
all the training for the project. In service training will be conducted for the immediate needs of the project
and long term training for future needs of the national system. Technical Assistance will be provided to
advise on existing courses and develop new short courses for the University. "Training of Trainers"
courses will be given by the Technical Assistance. Funding for Post-Graduate degree courses in automated
cadastral systems for one or two members of staff would be located from bilateral donors. A counterpart to
the Trainer would be nominated by the University before June 1999. A study tour will be organized to the
SLC and University staff to acquaint them with the land markets, and role of institutions in land
registration systems and courses being conducted in western universities and to visit establishments
involved in land registration, land taxation and land management.
Land use rig-ht allocation.
Each of the ten farms will undergo an analysis of the privatization activity that has occurred and be
involved in a public awareness campaign that clearly specifies the rights and possible structures that they
could choose. Decision making by public consensus will lead to acceptance of the previous land
distribution or a new (or renewed) distribution of land in an open and transparent manner. The stages will
the following:
* Farm Analysis. This is a review of the current status of the farm and the privatization work
already done. This will involve discussions with farm members as well as officials. A
comprehensive report would be prepared and a full list of all farm members and their share is
required. It may be that at this stage it is decided that previous privatization methods and
results are acceptable. In this case the analysis would decide if new survey work is required to
ensure that future boundary disputes are avoided. The next stages will only be used if
appropriate.
* Farm survey. This will involve collecting the existing map sheets for the farm and comparing
them with the ground situation. All natural field boundaries, irrigation channels, water courses,
roads and built up areas would be included. Any corrections that may be required will be
surveyed so that an accurate Map is available for the development plan. If additional survey
control points are required these will be surveyed.
* Information campaign. This will involve a series of meetings, discussions, etc. to ensure all
farm members are aware of their rights. Pamphlets will be distributed and it must be ensured
that all parties are free to present their arguments at an open forum. This stage would not be
rushed through. It is a key to transparency and openness of the whole program. The procedure
for dividing the farm would be decided during this period. Each individual would be given
sufficient information to decide if s/he wishes to farm alone or as a group.
* Decision of Farmers. The farmers will decide on whether they want to be independent or farm
with a group. If they decide to work as a group or continue as an existing brigade they must
elect a person to represent them during the plot allocation. The results will then be collected
-34-



and collated so that farm groups are known. Once the groups are known the farmers will have
a short period to change their decisions. (A group will have all the shares of the individual
members). Preferences can also be taken into account, for example a group may want to
concentrate on orchard land and only be included in the orchard areas.
* Development (or allocation) plan. A plan would be prepared to show all shares to be allocated
such that it conforms to good land husbandry and/or other criteria agreed by the farmers. For
example, it may be decided to allocate two plots per group if two areas have different
productivity or to allow a weighting dependent on productivity or location.
*   Allocation of Plots. The location of each piece of land per individual or group is selected by
lottery or other means agreed by the members.
*   Survey of Plots. The names of farmers and farm groups are added to the development plan,
their plot boundaries are marked on the plan and it is put on display. If there are no immediate
objections the plots are marked on the ground with permanent marks and the coordinates of
these points noted. If there are objections these would be resolved.
* Public Viewing. A new farm plan is drawn up and placed on public display for all members to
check and agree. They would sign their agreement on forms provided. The period for public
viewing would be well displayed and advertised. It would continue for at least two weeks at the
farm. At the end of the public viewing period the fnalization of the work can be officially
declared, preferably at a public meeting hosted by the Hukumat or another senior official.
* Issue of State Certificate for Land Use Rights. After the public viewing period Certificates are
issued.
*   Registration. The maps, copies of State Certificates of Land Use Rights and information about
other land rights are recorded at the Land Committee central office and Rayon Land
Committee office registration systems.
Land registration.
The record of land use rights are kept centrally by a self-financing enterprise established within the
Land Committee. Use rights are recorded in hand written ledgers that are hand ruled and hand written.
They are listed chronologically with separate pages for separate raions. Two ledgers are kept, one for
recording the applications and one for recording the details of the State Certificates when issued. They are
listed chronologically and require laborious searching when trying to locate entries. When the stage is
reached that records are listed in tens of thousands instead of hundreds it will be impossible to use this
system. Registers, using the same format, are also kept at the Rayon level SLC office. The system is not
parcel based and suffers from the associated drawbacks that allow duplication of entries for the same
parcel, time consuming searches and difficulty to computerize. Rayon offices suffer from the same
drawbacks as they keep a copy of the records. A unique parcel numbering system would be designed. The
system will be remodeled to include a parcel numbering system as the basis for efficient land registration.
The new system would be implemented on a computer system to be designed. This will require the help of
experienced Technical Assistance in Land Registration. Technical Assistance in Information Technology
with a GIS background will also be available.
-35-



Implementing Agency
The SLC will be responsible for implementing this sub-component of the project. The SLC has a
central office in Dushanbe that also acts as the Oblast office for Raions under Republican Subordination.
Oblast Land Committee offices exist in both Khatlon and Leninabad Oblasts and there is a Land
Committee office in every rayon. Thus, the basic structure is already in existence to implement the
sub-component. The SLC is supported by two state enterprises that function on a commercial basis. The
State Land Institute (GIPROZEM) has offices in both Dushanbe and Khojand. They provide the technical
expertise to undertake the survey work required in farm privatization. Fazo Institute provide the base
mapping required by the Giprozem and the SLC as a base for the cadastral mapping.
The work of the SLC will be coordinated by one specialist in the Project Management Unit. The
component will ensure that the Land Committee are provided with the training, equipment and procedural
guidelines to enable successful project implementation and the capacity to continue the work at other sites
in the coming years.
Technical Assistance and Training
Technical assistance would be provided in those critical areas which would facilitate speedy
implementation. These are in the areas of Land Registration, Training, Cadastral Survey, Information
Technology and Legislation. Most of the assistance will be provided in the first year of the project, with
occasional supervisory visits in succeeding years.
(i)    The Land Registration Expert would advise on all aspects of the work and to coordinate
the activity of the other foreign consultants. The expert will be based at the Land Committee
central office and work in close cooperation with Land Committee personnel responsible for the
project. He will be responsible for ensuring that a sustainable training program is established at
the Tajik Agrarian University. Input will be extensive in the first few months of the project. The
Specialist would be based at the PMU in Dushanbe and work with SLC and the University;
(ii)   the Cadastral Survey Expert will be responsible for ensuring that the technical experts
working for the Land Committee are efficient in the use of new technology in the practical work of
mapping, parcel identification and survey. He will be based at the SLC and work in collaboration
with the PMU land expert;
(iii)  Information Technology Expert will be responsible for ensuring that the information
technology supplied is effectively utilized and that software development and the management of
information systems is well catered for. He will be based at the SLC and work with the PMU land
expert;
(iv)   Legal Expert will make brief visits to review and advise on legislation being developed
under the legal sub-component. The majority of the work will be undertaken by local legal experts.
The Expert will be based at the SLC and PMU land expert and
(v)    Local Legal Experts would be recruited on a contract basis to advise on, and develop,
legislation for land reform and land registration. They will work under the direction of the
expatriate Land Registration Expert and Legal Expert.
-36-



Sub-component Outputs
The component will have the following outputs:
*   Training Center providing short and long term courses suitable for existing and prospective
Land Committee staff.
* Effective procedures for land allocation during farm privatization and the subsequent land
registration.
* One National and two Oblast Land Committee offices equipped and functioning as
administrative centers for land allocation during farm privatization and the subsequent land
registration.
* Six rayon Land Committee offices equipped and functioning as centers for land allocation
during farm privatization and the subsequent land registration of the rights allocated.
* Ten farms fully privatized with all legal rights registered at the rayon Land Committee office.
* Set of specific recommendations and draft laws for consideration by parliament.
A. 2. Rural Information and Advisory Services
To justify the investments in privatization of the Large State and Collective farms, into Dekhan
farms and to undertake rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage system, the economic productivity of
these farms need to be increased. To this end, Rural Information and Advisory Services Sub-component,
need to be included in the Project to intensify and improve present agricultural production systems of not
only the emerging Dekhan farms from the ten state and collective farms proposed for dismantling under this
project but also to facilitate the privatization of the other farms in the selected raions.
This sub-component will establish a farm information and advisory services unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA). It will consist of three main activities: (a) provide training to Dekhan farmers in a
variety of agricultural areas, economics, marketing, accounts, fnance, and technical fields and commercial
farm management; (b) demonstration of improved and modern farm production technologies to increase
farm production, improve water use efficiencies and reduce environmental degradation, and (c) provide
relevant information through different means (pamphlets, videos, radio, TV, weekly papers) to Dekhan
farmers to advise them how to make their farms more productive and more sensitive to emerging market
demands. A farmer advisory center will be set up in the MOA which will eventually reach a much broader
agricultural community in the country through video, radio, TV, technical brochures and a 'Farmers'
Weekly" paper editions in easy to understand local language.
It is foreseen that after this initial project, a follow up national roll out program might be
developed, covering not only irrigated, but rain-fed agriculture and pasture management as well to create
and sustain private farming in the country. Under this follow-up project, it is anticipated that a more
farmers' oriented (public and private) agricultural research and extension services system would emerge.
The main elements of the Rural Information and Advisory Services
component, are:
(a)    Dekhan Farmer Participatory Training Program;
(b)    Block Demonstration for Technology Dissemination; and
(c)    Farmers' Information Services.
(a)    Dekhan Farmers' Participatory Training Program
-37-



The training program and information services would be oriented towards solving farmers' farming
problems and to facilitate the privatization and commercialization of the farms. Such training is not
currently provided by the traditional education institutes and requires therefore special training of the
trainers. Therefore the training program will start with the "Training of Trainers" from MOA, the
Tajikistan Agriculture Academy, Departrnent of Agriculture staff of oblast and the six Project Raions and
crop research institutes ( Institute zemlyadelia) will be trained in modern training approaches and
methodologies by the project expatriate consultants. The Project's Management Unit (PMU) at Dushanbe,
The MOA along with the Academy of Agricultural Sciences (AAS), with the assistance of international
training and farm management consultants, the necessary training modules for the target groups will be
developed and used. These short courses would be modified when necessary to suit the farmers' needs
best. Initially the primary responsibility for the quality of the training program will be with the expatriate
consultants, assisted by PMU and relevant training counterpart staff in MOA/Agricultural Academy. This
responsibility, however, will be gradually transferred within two years to a more permanent training unit.
The target groups and their specific training needs are:
(a)    National, Oblast and Rayon Agricultural Department (Selkhoz upravleniva staff
involved in the project will be receiving the necessary basic orientation and training to implement
the project successfully and assist Dekhan farms in their efforts to become more economically
viable farms and thereby making agricultural production more sustainable under the prevailing
conditions, and helping the process of farm restructuring;
(b)    Brigade Leaders and Progressive farmer Leaders in the project Raions will receive extra
training on the application and transfer of improved and new technologies to farmers to increase
production in sustainable ways and will be subjected to discussions on how to establish Water
Users' Associations, Credit Unions, Farmers'. It is expected that members out of this target group
will form the source of farm leaders for the eventual leadership to form farmers' associations at the
grass root level in the country; and
(c)   Individual Private Farmers will be the biggest group benefiting from the participatory
training. Since most farm workers individuals from this group have mainly school education (some
may have higher education) and but have only limited skills as practical farmers, tractor drivers,
mechanics, accountants, farm irrigators, store managers, etc. These farm workers emerging after
receiving the share in the farms in land use rights need the broadest training in technical crop and
livestock production and basic farm management. In the short term, they would remain dependent
on the advisory services of the technical specialists. Eventually, independent private farmers would
emerge from this group, while others would be quite happy to remain farm hands or otherwise. For
this group, short training courses need to be conducted as much as possible through existing
agricultural training facilities in winter time and in-formal evening or week-end classes in summer
time. They would particularly benefit from the scheduled on-farm demonstrations.
Programs
The training program under this sub-component all the three elements of training, demonstrations
and information services will be totally integrated into one approach and action plan towards the
participating Dekhan farmers in the project, and in coordination and synchronization with the up coming
Rural Infrastructure- irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project. The total base training costs over two
years, including those for travel/transportation, accommodation, training equipment and materials and local
trainers fees, would be provided. However, most training activities will be carried out under the ministry's
regular training program. In cases where farmers are not able to pay for the special course expenditures,
-38-



the PMU will bear the extra costs under the project. In total some 3,500 beneficiaries of the proposed
project ten project farms and about 6000 beneficiaries from the six project Raions would be targeted for
special farmers' training under the project. MOA would be responsible for the implementation of this
component under supervision of the Director PMU assisted by expatriate consultants. The procurement of
training equipment and other support will be done by PMU on the advise of the Bank and the consultants.
(b)    On-Farm Demonstrations for Technology Dissemination
As part of the technical training and to increase production, new and improved local crop
production technologies for major crops (wheat, Cotton, Potatoes, onion, maize, sunflower, peanut, sesame
or other oilseeds and pulse crops like cow peas and Mung-bean and chick peas ) would be demonstrated in
selected Dekhan farms in blocks of 10 ha in the former sovkhoz/kolkhozes. There is a limited scope to
expand the area under cultivation, but there is considerable scope for improvement in irrigation water
management and for stepping up productivity of Dekhan farmers. There is urgent need for replacement of
currently used absolete low yielding wheat varieties which are susceptible to rust disease. Off-the-shelf
proven high yielding early maturing wheat varieties from International Research Institutes lice CIMMYT
or ICARDA would be brought in and demonstrated, steps to introduce hybrid corn varieties in place DM
susceptible local corn varieties. Introduction of available high yielding varieties of oil seed crops, for
example Brassica Napus, Brassica juncea, Sesames orientale, that would help introduce effective crop
geometry, holds good promise in plains of Vaksh river valley. Inter-cropping or relay cropping system in
cotton - wheat based crop systems, introduction of short duration pulse crops in wheat cotton rotation to
enhance cropping intensity and farm income at the same time improve crop rotation and soil fertility.
1.30.  Selection of Block Demonstration Farms will be on the basis of the criteria developed by the PMU
on the advise of the Bank and the consultants. The objective of the demonstrations is to educate the
emerging farmers to evaluate improved practices/machinery and become more self reliant and commercially
oriented. These demonstrations would make use of improved farm equipment (local improved and
imported), including the use of the latest generation of fuel efficient 4WD tractors. In some cases, private
companies would be encouraged and invited to demonstrate farm machinery for small farm production
technologies. It is estimated that some 24 demonstration of 10 ha block each (to a total of 240 ha) will be
organized over two years, using off-the shelf modern varieties developed by the international crop research
institutes (i.e. ICARDA, CIMMYT, CIP, etc.), multiple cropping system, economic optimal rates of
agricultural inputs of fertilizers, use of pest and drought resistant photo-insensitive early maturing high
quality and high yielding varieties seeds, pest control-chemicals. Better on-farm water management
practices will also be demonstrated (involving IIMI), including some improved drip and sprinkler
components. Where justified, demonstrations would be smaller or larger than 10 ha. Extra financial
benefits to the farms, as a result of the demonstrations, will be plow back and used by the Dekhan farm
groups themselves for further adoption of the technology including the HYV seeds in the subsequent years
and to gradually buy the recommended equipment and crop production inputs.
The block demonstration plan for each year indicating what type of demonstrations and how many
will be where executed, will be drafted and monitored by the consultants and training team, together with
PMU. These plans will be developed in consultation with the Dekhan Farmers Associations( DFAs) and
WJUAs, who will then execute the demonstrations themselves under the guidance of the Research institutes
(National and International) and the Selkhoze upravleniya of the rayon. Initially Dekhan farms would need
more direct assistance from the Agricultural Academy, consultants and MOA to set up a viable
demonstrations. PMU/MOA, however, would be responsible for making available the demonstration
equipment and for the procurement of the necessary production inputs as recommended by the team. The
Rayon Agricultural Department and the PMU consultants will also be responsible to organize "Farmers
Field Days" on the demonstration sites in consultation with the DFAs and WUAs concerned and those
-39-



nearby. These field days would be held at least once per cropping season at the most appropriate time to
maximize the demonstration effect of the practices recommended and shown. At these field days, the demo's
will be evaluated in comparison with existing practices and analyzed for their cost-benefit ratios. New
successful practices would be widely publicized by MOA's Farmers Information Unit through the common
news media and "Farmers' Weekly" news paper editions for broader adoption. Farm block demo
production inputs will be procured through prudent local or international shopping.
(c)   Farmers' Information Unit
In conjunction with the training and demonstration components, there is a crucial need for farmers'
information on many agricultural issues, in particular by emerging Dekhan farmers. Up till now, however,
this information has not been readily available and accessible by the farmers in remote places, in particular
information on more efficient crop and livestock production technologies, farm management and accounting
practices and market information. Most information in the past came from research institutes directly to the
farm directors and specialists, who applied the recommendations by order of the State. With the on-going
privatization and farm restructuring, the need for broader and more farmers' and market oriented
information would increase considerably. To meet this need, MOA will establish a central farmers'
information services desk under the project to provide regular information on critical agricultural issues
related to production and marketing through the existing news media of TV, radio, video, brochures and"
Farmers' Weekly" paper.
The technical topics and contents for the broadcasts and papers will be generated by the
consultants and technical specialists of MOA and staff of agricultural research institutes, who will pass it
on to the newly established MOA's Information Center. MOA already has some experience in providing
TV and Radio broadcasting to farmers and is very eager to participate in the Project. It also prepares press
releases on behalf of MOA. Under the project, page space will be bought for the "Dekhan Farmers'
Weekly" edition on a weekly basis for the next two years and later priced and sold. Eventually sufficient
agricultural information will be readily available to farmers so that these papers do not need direct support
from MOA any longer but the Dekhan farmer's Association would take over the full responsibility of
publishing all the demanded Dekhan farmers' information themselves.
To take up this activity under this sub-component special equipment (estimated at US$ 130,000 is
required to equip the MOA Press Center's, including those for the preparation of videos and technical
bulletins. Training videos would be prepared locally, reflecting the basic thrust of the training program and
broadcast through MOA's regular agricultural transmission hours. The procurement of all the equipment
and materials will be carried out through Local/International Competitive Bidding procedures of the Bank
by the consultants with the assistance of PMU.
Technical Assistance and Consultants Requirement
To implement the Dekhan Farmers' Information Services Component, the PMU will be assisted for
two years by international farm management and agricultural training consultants and local specialists or
consultants. Under the project a total of US$ 1.1 million will be available to cover the base costs for some
50 foreign and 250 local consultants man-months to implement the Program. The consultants will be fully
responsible for all the training, demos and technical farmers' information services within the two years of
the project, after which the responsibility for the daily implementation of the program is transferred to
MOA and the local consultants. Local specialists/consultants may be subcontracted in by the PMU in
consultation with MAO under Tajik salary guidelines, norms and conditions. The foreign lead consultants
will also be responsible to train the local specialists and consultants and continue to provide their services
-40-



up till the end of the second year of the project
-41-



Project Component 2 - US$8.5 million
B. Irrigation and Drainage system Rehabilitation Component
Present status of Irrigation and drainage system at the farm level.
The ten project State and collective farms, selected by the Government for piloting the farm
privatization and distribution of Land use rights among farm workers under the proposed Project, are
situated in six raions that represent the three main agro-ecological regions in Tajikistan
(southern/centralSnorthern). See map IBRD 30059.
The ten State and Collective project farms has a total area of 37,490 and range in size from 607
ha to 13916 ha. Currently these farms have a total cultivable area of about 17,307 ha. The total area under
irrigation in these ten farms is 14,000 ha and range between 212 ha in Varzob farm to 4393 ha in Ch.
Yergashev farm. (see Table - 2.1 ) With the moves toward private management, the farms have so far
divided into 218 dekhan farm units - with varying degrees of autonomy.
Table -2.1 Resources of the Project farms
Name of the     Rayon      Farm    Arable  Irrigated   Total    House-     Total
Farm                  Area (ha)  Area  Area (ha)  working  Holds in   Population
(ha)            Brigades  the Farm
villages
Guliston      Kalkhozabad    3955    2259    1699        33       1837       14676
Ittifok       Kalkhozabad    1565    525       518       11       668        4196
Firdousi      Yavan           604     406      406       13       279        3180
Sh. Rahimov   Yavan          5806    1831      707       32       673        11831
Hakikat       Shahri Nau      660     427      427       7        813        7480
Leningrad     Shahri Nau     4126    1516      801       13       1308       10938
Varzob*       Leninski       1620    438       221       0        216        15297
Vafo          Macha          2787    1999    1999        35       1525       12400
Ch. Yergashev  Macha         13916   5927    4393        52       1033       4867
Kanz          Zafarabad      2451    1979    1979        22       1021       8500
ITOTAL          Six ravons   37490   17307   13150       218      9373       93365
*_/ Lands have been distributed to Dekhan Association hence no Brigades exist
The most advanced of these farm units such as in Varzob farm of Leninski Rayon and Hakikat
farm of Shahrinau are split into privatized farms or dekhan farms based on voluntary groupings involving
family clans and previous working brigades. On this basis, individual dekhan farms have an average
cultivable area of 66 ha, while actual sizes of individual (non-juridical) household farms range from 2 to 12
ha to and that of registered (juridical) dekhan farms range from 12 to 140 ha. With improvements resulting
from irrigation and drainage works as envisaged under the project, it is estimated that farmland which is
currently impeded would be opened up and the total cultivable area would increase to over about 17,500
ha. and the cropping intensity would be expanding from the present level of 70% to well over 120%.
-42-



General Status types of Irrigation system
Tajikistan has developed a unique irrigated system of gravity and pumping. Of the ten project
farms Hakikat and Varzob are 100% gravity irrigated. About 1876 ha out of 1944 ha of the Leningrad
farm is gravity irrigated. In all almost 20 % of the ten project farms area 17152 ha is irrigated by gravity.
Pumping stations lift irrigation supplies from canal systems to high lands far distant from valleys in a series
of lifts from gravity canals (locally called cascades). Table 2.3 summarizes the irrigation system of the
project farms.
Table 2.3. System of Irrigation in the Project Farms
Name of the State! Total     Gravity  Total pumped       Pumped Irrigation area in Ha
Collectve        Farm       Irrigated  Irri'ated area           eht in M  t
Farms            Area Ha  Area in Ha  In Ha        < 0- 60 61 - 100 101 - 150 151-200 >201
Varzob              944       944          0         0       0       0        0      0
Hakikat             526       526          0         0       0       0        0      0
Leningrad           1944      1876         68       68       0       0        0      0
Firdouvsi           436       436          0         0       0       0        0      0
Sh. Rahmanov        1126       25         1101       0      616      0       237    248
Ittefak             677        0          677       540    137       0        0      0
Gulistan           2368        0         2368      2368      0       0        0      0
Ch.Yargashev       6399        0          6399      1709   2532    1538       0     620
Usif Vafo          2590       296         2274      987      0      1013      0     274
"Kanz"             4450       185        4625        0     2075    2190       0      0
Total  21460      4288       17512     5672   5360    4741    237    1142
Perrent to tnt5d A re         I ./. I% -  Si%.     . .26%.. .25%..  %23.   1 /n   I.5%.
The number of cascades range from 5 to 7 each ranging from 14 to 26 Meters lift. In the Vaksh
river Valley called "Golden valley" in Khatlon oblast in Yavan and Kolkhozabad Raions i.e. Firdaouzi Sh.
Rahmanova; and Varzob and Leningrad farms of Central Raions, built in 30s, have at least some gravity
flow. Most of the system later built and expanded during the 1960s by abstraction of water from main
rivers notably such as in Gulistan, and Ittifak farms in Kolkhozabad Rayon of Khatlon oblast; and in
Y.Vafo, Ch. Ergashev and Kanz farms, of Macha and Zafarabad raions of Leninabad Oblast in Syr
Darya valley, have combinations of gravity and lift either from weirs or pumping into gravity canals.
On farm application of irrigation water in these project farms is moderate to low in coverage, with
flood irrigation for about 40% of the wheat, other cereals and fodder; furrow irrigation in about 35% of the
farm area for cotton and vegetables; border strip irrigation in about 22% of the area and in some cases
sprinkler irrigation is used (less than 3% of the total irrigated area). Sprinkler systems are gradually falling
out of operation, because of lack of maintenance, spare-parts and high operational expenses. Most of the
farms in Tajikistan, including the farms under the project, have some portions equipped with pumping
facilities that supply water to irrigate higher lands. All main canals and most of the secondary canals are
either lined or in good shape due to good soil . The tertiary canals are mostly pre-cast reinforced concrete
sections or have cast in-situ concrete lining. However unlined open earth canals or closed pipe systems
-43-



made of steel or cement pipes exist in more than 30 percent of the tertiary canal systems. Off-farm
irrigation water conveyance efficiency is low (less than 50%) as the system has deteriorated from lack of
maintenance.
On-farm System:
The collective farms were settled under the former Soviet Union, and most irrigation systems were
built in 1956-64 period. Cotton is by far the most common crop, which is a major source of foreign
exchange earnings for Tajikistan. Irrigation water is supplied to the farms by a combination of gravity
flow and lifting by pumps. Water is pumped to the main canals that are aligned on the higher contours, and
the water application to the land is down the slope. Excess water, or return flow, from the higher lands is
frequently captured and reused for irrigation of lower lands. Water use efficiency in such irrigation
systems would normally be quite high. Lands located on higher elevations have light-textured, well draining
soils. Combined with the favorable weather, these lands are ideal for planting high-value fruit crops such
as grapes, apples, apricots etc. This is indeed the common practice, and would perhaps justify the high
cost of pumping to higher elevations. On lower elevation lands, cotton is by far the most planted crop,
which forms the backbone of Tajikistan economy.
The lower elevation lands have higher clay content and do not drain well naturally. Drainage
facilities have been provided in many such lands, and often the drainage water is pumped back and reused
for irrigation after mixing it with fresh surface water. Salt content of the groundwater is low. Even in the
lands where water table is very near to the surface, no salt deposits are visible on land surface. For water
distribution and application, each farm is divided into a number of land units, which are supplied with
water through laterals or tertiary channels. From these tertiary channels, water is applied to the land by
using furrows-and-ridge method, which is appropriate for primary crops of cotton and vegetables. On the
downstream side of furrows, water is often recaptured and reused for crops on successively lower elevation
lands. Irrigation systems, in particularly the pumping plants, have rapidly deteriorated because of the lack
of maintenance.
On-farn water use efficiency in most of the farm is moderate to low provide ample scope for
improvement in irrigation water use efficiency. Increasing field application efficiencies requires land
leveling and denser network of field water supply ditches. On privatization of these large collective and
state farms managed earlier by the number of brigades in blocks of 25 to 50 ha, are now to be divided in to
smaller parcels of 5 to 10 ha (in some cases 2 ha and less.  Each tertiary canal outlets have to provide
water to these small privately owned individual holdings, Dekhan farms or association of Dekhan farmers
farming together equitably.
Generally, the water pumped to comparatively higher elevations is used for high-value fruits crops
such as apricots and grapes. Lands located on higher elevations have light-textured, well draining soils.
Combined with very favorable weather, these lands are ideal for planting high-value fruit crops. These
cropping practices would probably justify the high cost of pumping to higher elevations. There are some
positive aspects of lift irrigation systems which merit consideration. In lift irrigation, water is pumped from
the river very adjacent to the land area to be irrigated. To service the same area by gravity flow, water
would need to be captured a long distance upstream which would require long delivery canals. This means
a significant amount of water loss by seepage, which contributes to water logging and salinity as evidenced
in the irrigation systems of Pakistan. Also, because the water must be shared between many users,
management of gravity flow systems often requires sophisticated and costly social organization to prevent
inequity. The gravity flow irrigation systems, therefore, also have large indirect costs associated with them.
-44-



The main system facilities of most of the project farms have deteriorated to the extent that water
supplies are reduced by 30 to 40 percent. The pumping stations especially are in bad shape. On the
average two out of five pumps may work in a typical pumping station. Even those require constant repair
and the parts are increasingly not available and expensive. The main canals could benefit from better
sediment removal but in general that does not appear to be a major problem. Most turnout gates to the
tertiary channels are not functioning properly and will need to be repaired or replaced. To ensure reliable
water supply in adequate quantity to every parcels (dekhan farms), it is essential that investments are made
not only to restore the deteriorating existing secondary and tertiary canals but also extend these canals to
reach water to every parcel through a denser network of supply ditches. The density of supply ditch
network will be dictated by the land topography, cropping system and the size of the land parcel. The
project will minimize the land leveling operations taking into account the need for land leveling and
construction of supply-ditches needed to improve the on-farm water use efficiency.
Proposed works under the component:
The following provides an overview of the different works proposed under the irrigation
infrastructure rehabilitation works component making distinction between nine (A to I ) different
categories:
Category A: replacement/repairs of pumps/ motors - In all there is a need to replace/repair 51
irrigation pumps; 76 vertical drainage, 238 power supply meter point systems;  replace 5500
meters length of pumping steel pipes of 20 cm diameter; 22 pump-houses need to be repaired, and
40 diesel engines replaced in 7 of the project farms under this category;
Category B: replacement of power cables: the project would support provision of 32 km length
of power cables.
Category C: desiltation of open canals and drains - The project would finance desilting and
repair of main canals which involves approximately 345070 M  of excavation; of secondary canal
83360 M' 196805 M' of tertiary irrigation canals; and 165130 M  of Drainage canal desilting in
these ten farms;
Categorv D: replace turnout gates & repairs and reconstruction of existing structures - most
of the irrigation regulatory structures and turn out gates in the open canal system that are in a very
bad state. Approximately 76 main regulators, 194 outlets, and 130 minor regulators would be
constructed on the main canals, about 250 water control structures on the tertiary canals. In all
112 cross siphons, 5 aqueducts and 23 road culverts would be constructed,
Cateaory E: installation of flow measuring devices - There is a need to measure the water flows
at all farm levels to provide the designated quantity of water at a given flow rate for ensuring
timely delivery of water as per the plan and for determining the quantity delivered for cost
recovery. This will also help in collection of O& M fees by the WUAs. The project would install
781 water measuring devices in ten project farms.
Cate-ory F: rehabilitation of sub-surface drainage systems - Sub-surface drainage systems in
many farms are clogged resulting in water-logging (EC > 3.0 mmohs/cm) and reduction in crop
yields (20 -40% of potential). It is proposed to clean the sub-surface drainage pipeline length of
approximately 118 km and repair the existing 44 km length of pipes including 415 hydrants.
Catei-orv G: construction of new canals - Since the farms would be split into a number of
smaller production units, it is essential to increase the density of the tertiary canal network in
Gulistan, Ittifak, Ch..Yergashev, Kanz and Y. Vafo. The project farms would construct new
tertiary canals works of 37 km length (37150 M' ) to enhance the density to a proposed spacing of
250 meters. The project would also support construction of an essential 7.5 km length of new sub
-45-



surface drainage in Hakikat farm.
Category H: construction of new irrigation structures - Together with the construction of 50
tertiary intake structures, 57 Hydrants, and 7 out falls, and 7 cross pipes need to be laid to enhance
the efficiency of irrigation water flow in the canals. and
Cateiorv I: field level improvements - To improve the efficiency of water use it is proposed to
carry out a program of field level improvements consisting of the construction of a system of
adequately spaced field ditches in combination with land leveling. This may include about 800 ha
comprising of slopes from 0.3% to 1. 5 %. However, under this category boarder strip method of
land leveling will be advocated involving least earth cut and movement. This would be executed by
the private farmers and the project would provide the required technical assistance to the farmers
and help prepare the plans and estimates of the farm improvements for the purpose of raising
loans.
O& M Cost Recovery:
Earlier, prior to the independence, water charges were levied and adjusted with the state and
collective farms accounts. Although the O&M responsibility of the off-farm infrastructure is of the
MOWR and on-farm irrigation and drainage system management was of the farms, de-facto maintenance
of farm activities were done by MOWR on contract basis. The maintenance of main, secondary and
tertiary canals were done by the MOWR  with the budgetary grants from the Government. Once the
budget allocations of MOWR were curtailed and were asked to manage within the water charges collected
from the farms. However, because of the precarious financial conditions of the farms, the MOWR could
not act aggressively in collecting water charges from the farms.
The Ministry of Irrigation field offices do not have the necessary funds, equipment and staff to
properly maintain the facilities. However, the utterly bad situation of the pumping plants clearly indicates
a long-term neglect of maintenance since the time they were built (1958-62). These observations raise the
concern that the facilities may not be properly maintained subsequent to very expensive rehabilitation under
the Project. The fundamental solution the project would be advocating to the Government is to let farmers
organize into water users associations (WUAs) and manage their tertiary or farm level irrigation facilities.
Federations of these WUAs would also be encouraged to be formed to manage the larger main canal level
irrigation systems. The Government has agreed to permit the formation of the WUAs and would be a
legal institutions to perform functions such as to enter into contracts and borrow credit from banks etc.
WUAs would be able to collect irrigation service fees from their members, and the funds would be used for
payment of water charges and proper operation and maintenance of the system where they are collected.
Need for Institutional Strengthening for System Maintenance
The Ministry of Irrigation field offices do not have the necessary funds, equipment and staff to
properly maintain main canals, pumping stations and other facilities in their charge. Comparatively, the
on-farm irrigation facilities, managed by farmers' associations, including tertiary channels and water
application to the land appear to be in good working condition. The farms in Tajikstan have a history of
collective local organization to take care of all agricultural activities including crop marketing. The
farmers, therefore, would be assisted through technical assistance in organizing themselves in water users'
associations (WIUAs) to manage their irrigation systems.
The WUAs would be formed as a legal institutions with ownership rights to their irrigation
facilities, and authority to operate and maintain the facilities. The legal code would need to specify
responsibilities of the Ministry of Irrigation and WUAs. Initially, the Ministry of Irrigation can continue to
-46-



manage large pumping stations and main canals, which serve a number of farms. But eventually even these
facilities can be turned over to federations of WUAs. Ministry of Irrigation and Agriculture will play very
important role in establishing and strengthening WUAs. In addition to the legal code, perhaps more
importantly, the WVUAs would need to be financially empowered. They should have the authority to collect
irrigation service fees from their members and be able to use the funds for the irrigation system
management.
System Performance Monitoring
An important supporting role for the MOWR is to properly monitor system performance.
Technical assistance for appropriate data collection on time series basis to know critical performance
indicators such as: adequacy and reliability of water deliveries, equity of water distribution among farmers,
cropping patterns and yields, etc would be provided under the project. Such assistance is critical for
improving the quality of system management in the MOWR.
Institutional Development (Training) Programs
The govermnent staff and farmers' associations lack expertise and experience necessary for proper
management of private irrigated agriculture. A significant amount of training and effort would be needed
to formulate legal base for WUAs, establish WUAs and then train them in irrigation system management.
Government institutions would be reoriented through technical assistance to help to identify how best
WUAs could be supported and empowered. A well-designed training program would provided for
developing these institutional capabilities, both in government and private farming sector.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.5 million
C. One-time privatization grant and pilot rural savings and credit associations
C. 1. One-time privatization grant: The project would provide a one-time grant to private "family
farms" emerging out of the privatization process of the following former state and collective farms
participating in the project in the Oblasts and raions indicated in the table below:
Oblast/Area                          Raions             Farms
1. Khatlon                             1.Kolkhozabad     (i) Guliston and (ii) Ittefaq
2.Yavan           (i) Firduzi and (ii) Sharif
Rakhmanov
2. Leninabad                           1. Macha           (i) Wafo, and (ii) Ch. Ergaschev
2. Zafarabad      (ii) 40 year Tajikistan
3. Raions under                         1.Shaharinau      (i) Hakiqat and (ii) Leningrad
Republican Subordination (RRS)         2. Leninisky       (i) Varzob.
Eligibility criteria:: The following are the eligibility criteria for the provision of one-time
privatization grant to private family farms:
(a)  possess a valid land use rights certificate issued by the State Land Committee;
(b)  have a savings bank account in TSB;
(c)  is a member of the Water User's Association and have access to assured and
timely supply of water for agricultural activities; and
(d)  is engaged in agricultural activity as the main source of livelihood.
-47-



Amount of grant: The amount of grant would be limited to $300 (three hundred) per hectare of
arable land to each family farm subject to a maximum of $600 (six hundred) per household. For the
purposes of providing the one-time grant, the household is defined as a family unit consisting of a husband
and wife and their children; with/without their grandparents, and immediate relatives all living in one
household. This is referred to as "oila" in Tajik language. This amount is considered adequate to enable
the family farm to obtain a minimal amount of the most critical agricultural inputs to increase crop and or
animal productivity as quickly as possible.
Procedure for obtaining the grant: The following procedure shall apply for the family farm to obtain
the one-time privatization grant:
(a) The family farm from the participating project farms shall submit an application to the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the respective raion supported with the following documentation: (i) certified
copy of the land use rights certificate issued by the SLC; (ii) saving bank account number in the
Tajiksberbank; (iii) verification that he is a member of the Water User's Association and have access to
assured and timely supply of water for agricultural activities; (iv) is engaged in agricultural activity as the
main source of livelihood and certified by the local Department of Agriculture; and (iv) signed statement
that the beneficiary shall use the funds for productive income generating agriculture activities in the farm.
(b) The PIU in the respective raion shall review the application, ensure compliance with the
eligibility criteria, evaluate the amount of grant to be provided, and make recommendation to the PMU.
(c) The PMU shall prepare a list of eligible farms in each raion, based on the information provided
by the respective PIU, verify the information provided through on the spot checks, and submit the list of
eligible farms to the Project Steering Committee (PSC) periodically, for approval by the Project Steering
Committee;
(d) The Project Steering Committee shall review the list and give its recommendation and decision
to the PMU authorizing that the grants be provided to the eligible farm;
(e) The PMU shall process a withdrawal application from the Special Account, deposit the amount
of grant authorized by the PSC in local currency in TSB, provide the TSB with a list of eligible farms,
account numbers and amounts of grants approved for each eligible farm for deposit in the respective
accounts of the farm;
(f) TSB shall deposit the amount approved for each farm in their respective accounts within seven
calendar days, from the date of receipt of the total amount from the PMU;
(g) TSB shall : (i) enter into the savings book of the farm the date and the grant amount deposited,
and (ii) submit the list of farms, amounts deposited and dates of deposit, on the I st of every month to the
Project Implementation Unit and Project Management Unit; and
(h) PMU shall provide the Association with periodic reports on the status of the provision of grants
in the reporting format as agreed with the Association..
C.2. Pilot rural savings and credit associations: The project would initiate the creation and
development of grass-roots, member owned local savings and credit associations that would meet the short
and medium tern credit needs of its members. Since this would be the first time such an activity would be
-48-



carried out in Tajikistan, a cautious approach has been adopted. The National Bank of Tajikstan has
passed a resolution recently (January 1999) permitting the establishment of such savings and credit
associations, and the demand for rural credit from the emerging private farms forms the basis for this
component.
Eligibility criteria: The following are the eligibility criteria for the Rural Savings and Credit
Association to obtain the start up capital and the credit line:
(a) is registered by the National Bank of Tajikistan in accordance with the regulations of NBT
Number 83 dated January 26, 1999 and/or amendments thereof;
(b) maintain accounting records according to established standards; acceptable to the
Association;
(c) has received training acceptable to the Association; and
(d) is in compliance with prudential rules established by NBT for RSCA's activities.
Sub-loan limits: Each eligible rural savings and credit association could receive a sub-loan in Tajik
Rubles in the amount not more than the equivalent of US$200,000 of which: (a) an amount of upto
US$150,000 equivalent shall be allocated for the subsequent on-lending to the members of eligible rural
and savings associations for productive purposes; and (b) an amount of upto US$50,000 shall be provided
to each of the eligible RSCA's as start up capital
Terms of sub-loan: Each subloan shall be charged at an interest rate equal to the prevailing
National Bank of Tajikistan rediscount rate, denominated in Tajik Rubles; have a ten year maturity with
one year grace period; and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan shall bear the foreign exchange
risk;
Procedure for obtaining the sub-loan: The following procedure shall apply for a Rural Savings and
Credit Association (RSCA) to obtain  the sub-loan:
(a) An application for a sub-loan from the RSCA in a form satisfactory to the Association and
containing all necessary information shall be submitted to the PMU;
(b) PMU, with the assistance of a suitably qualified International Non-Governmental
Organization, to be contracted for the purposes of carrying out this activity, shall review the
application and ensure its compliance with the eligibility criteria described above;
(c) The RSCA, applying for the start up capital shall submit an application to the
Tajiksberbank (TSB); with the following documentation: (i) authorization from the National
Bank of Tajikistan to function as a RSCA; and (ii) approval by the NGO of the amount of
start up capital and the credit line; and
(d) The TSB shall, upon receipt of the application, deposit the start up capital and the amount
requested for the credit line and enter into an agreement with each of the RSCA setting out the
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Role of Tajiksberbank: Tajiksberbank will function as an agent bank for the Ministry of Finance
to channel a portion of the funds received as credit for the Farm Privatization Support Project from the
International Development Association of the World Bank Group. This means that TSB will not take the
financial, foreign exchange and credit risks, which will be taken by the Government of the Republic of
-49-



Tajikistan. The two main functions of TSB as an agent bank will be the following:
A. Implementation of the provision of one-time privatization grant: This would consist of: (i)
enabling each family farm to open a savings account in the raion branch closest and convenient to the
household receiving the grant; (ii) transferring the one-time privatization grant to the eligible private farm
family households within 7 (seven) calendar days upon notification by the Project Management Unit; and
these deposits be made available to the farm family household (the depositor), as and when demanded and
protected and insured, as provided under the Banking laws of Tajikistan; (iii) providing a list of the
accounts to the Project Implementation Unit and the Project management unit as and when requested; and
(iv) maintaining proper accounts, and separate from its own accounts, which would be subject to audit
twice a year by an auditor acceptable to IDA.
B. Providing sub-loans to rural savings and credit associations: This would consist of : (i)
On-lending and recovery of the sub-loans made to the rural savings and credit associations that meet the
eligibility criteria as described above;  (ii) maintaining proper custody of these sub-loan funds; (iii)
repayment to the Ministry of Finance of the interest and the principal collected from the RSCA's (which
would be used for servicing the IDA credit); and (iv) maintaining proper custody of these sub-loan funds
and proper accounts separate from its own accounts, which would be subject to audit twice a year by an
auditor acceptable to IDA.
Agency fee: TSB shall receive the following fees for acting as an agent bank for the one-time
privatization grant and providing sub-loans to RSCA's:
Grants: TSB shall receive a fee 3 percent (three percent) of the grant amount processed and
deposited in the farm family household account, which shall be paid to Tajiksberbank, in Tajik rubles, on a
monthly basis, from project funds, upon the approval of the Project Management Unit;
Sub-loans:TSB shall receive a fee of 1 percent (one percent) of the sub-loan amount provided to
the RSCA and another I percent (one percent) from the RSCA out of the total amount of interest and
principal collected from the RSCA in cash on an arrears basis;
Review of the fee structure: This fee structure will be subject to review by the Ministry of Finance
at the end of the first year and revised, as needed, in consultation with IDA.
Dispute resolution: In case of disputes concerning the amount of grant, eligibility criteria,
procedures, or any other concerns, the farm shall have the right to appeal to the PMU, who shall make a
final decision within seven calendar days from the date of appeal by the farm. In the case of start up capital
and credit line, the RSCA shall have the right to appeal to the PMU, who shall make a final decision within
seven calendar days from the date of appeal by the RSCA.
Agency agreement: The above provisions have been incorporated in an agency agreement between
the Ministry of Finance and Tajiksberbank, the signing of which is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Project Component 4 - US$3.9 million
D. Project Management and Implementation Units
This component would provide support for the establishment and operations of the Project
Management Unit in Dushanbe and Project Implementation Units in each of the six project raions. The
-50-



Project Management Unit would be responsible for overall coordination of the project, preparation of
annual work program and budget, providing overall guidance and assisting the Project Implementation
Units (PIU's) in the project raions in the preparation, design and implementation of project activities,
carrying out all the work related to procurement, disbursement, accounts, audit, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting. The project will provide the necessary equipment, vehicles, rehabilitation of offices, training and
technical assistance in the areas of procurement, finance and accounting systems, project management and
operating cost.
-51-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
1. Farm Support Services                                       0.7           4.0           4.7
(i) Land registration services
(ii) Rural information and advisory services
2. (i) Rehabilitation of main and field level                  2.5           3.9           6.4
farm irrigation and drainage works
(ii) WUAs
3. Grant and rural credit                                      0.1           5.3           5.4
(i) One-time grant/I
(ii) Pilot rural savings and credit association
4. Project Management Unit/                                    1.1           2.2           3.3
Project implementation units
5. PPF (refinance)                                             0.1           0.5           0.6
Total Baseline Cost                                            4.5          15.9          20.4
Physical Contingencies                                        0.4           0.8           1.2
Price Contingencies                                           1.2           0.7           1.9
Total Project Costs                 6.1           17.4          23.5
Total Financing Required                  6.1          17.4          23.5
Goods                                                              0.6           4.1           4.7
Works                                                              1.2           4.7           5.9
Services                                                           0.0           3.6           3.6
Training                                                           0.8           0.7            1.5
Other                                                              3.5           4.3           7.8
Total Project Costs          6.1          17.4          23.5
Total Financing Required           6.1          17.41         23.5
-52-



Annex 4
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Evaluation of financial and economic viability of the newly emerging privatized farms have been
demonstrated using crop budgets for the major crops and livestock activities in the project areas. The main
crops analysed were wheat, cotton, corn for grain, potatoes, onions, vegetables (brinjal), apples and grapes.
The analysis was carried out under two scenarios; first, using the current input-output technical coefficients
and productivity levels - which represent the "without project" situation and second; under improved
technological practices and with improved input-output relationships and achievable productivity levels -
representing the "with project" situation.
Without Project Situation: The first case reflects the present status of crop profitability. It
indicates that the gross margins of the major crops, even though positive, are not adequate enough to justify
new investments, unless their operations are restructured and productivity increases are obtained. The gross
margins per hectare for wheat, cotton, and corn (for grain) range between US$37 to US$112 per hectare.
Vegetables and fruits provide a larger margin of about US$150 per hectare. These low margins could be
attributable to the low input use, poor quality seeds, obsolete technological practices and low farmgate
prices.
With Project Situation:     The second case analyzes the returns under improved conditions,
and assumes higher quality and timely provision of inputs, more efficient use of water resources (which is
expected to result from the formation of water user's associations and water charges), lower harvesting and
transport losses and better quality products. Under this likely scenario, which is possible under a privatized
system of farm operations, the gross margins per hectare for corn (grain), cotton, fruits and vegetables
show the largest increase - ranging from 300 to 500 percent as compared to the
"without project" situation.
Economic and financial viability: The expected increases in returns from a privatized system of farming
show that the economic and financial returns for investments in the rehabilitation of irrigation works are of
the order of 26 percent and 20 percent respectively. Continuation of the present policies of complete
liberalization of prices of fruit, vegetable and livestock products and all agricultural inputs, and gradual
move towards border prices for wheat and cotton could yield much higher returns.
-53-



Tajikistan: Farm Privatization Support Project
CROP BUDGET
1. Without Project      -
Crops                          Wheat                      Cotton                  Corn (for rin)          Potatoes
Current (1999)                   Unit ~Units    Unit  IValue  Units  Unit  Value    Units   Unit  IValue   Units   Unit  Value
_______________________  _______  ______Price  I             Price I____Price  _______Price   __
Yield Product                      t            1.8   120    216       1.8  320       576      4.      5      20       8.01    951 760
Yield__By-Product      ____      _____         1.2    201      24      1.0    21        24      .                      3.01      5 11 5
Total Output                    us          ___/ha240                       -         5781L___   __            28I                   775
B. Variabig Costs                         I____                                                            I__
Seed                              kig          230   0.14       32     80  0.22        1 8     50   0.13        7    1,500   0.15   225
Fertilizer                     _____    ____                ___                                    _______
- Urea                            kgL..          0  0.24  __0          80 0.24         19       0 0.24          0        0  0.24       0
-Ammonium Nitrate                 kpg          100   0.23      23    150  0.23         35     150   0.23       35     200   0.23    46
-TSP                              ke....      100   0.18       1 8    150  0.18        27     100   0.18       1 8    200   0.18    36
-Potash                         ki....          0   0.13 _     0        01 0.13        0       50   0.13        7     200   0.13    26
-Compound fertilizer              kg.           0   0.32 __  0    1001 0.32           32       501 0.321       16       01  0.32      0
Farm Yard Manure                 kig.....    1,50   0.003 ___5  2.0001 0.003            6        0  0.003       0   3.00  0.003        9
Plant protection chemicals         it            4   7.50       30      12  7.50       90        0   7.50       0        8   7.50    60
Farm Macb- (includingz fuel)                              ___0                          0                       0                      0
-for Dloughing                    ha             1  18.00      18       3 18.001       54     2.0  18.00       361      3  18.00    54
-for land preparation             ha             1  10.00      10       2 10.00       20      2.0__10.00       20 ___1  10.00    10
-for sowing                       ha      ___1   5.00           5 _     1  5.00        6        1   5.00        5       0   5.00      0
-for fertilizer distribution      ha             1   5.00 ___5 ___1  5.00 ___5                  2   5.00       10       2    5.00    10
-for cultivation                  ha             1   5.00       5       4  5.00       20      0.0  5.00 __  0           0      00 _  0
-for harvest                      ha      ___ 1  16.00         1 6      0 22.00         0       0  22.00        0              0 20    _ 
Transport Costs                lumno)sum   ___1   7.50 ___8             2 15.00        30        1   7.50 __  8            22500    50
Hired labor                       da-           301  0.501 ___I       2101 050o       105      45   0.70       32      27      .0 135
Total variable costs/ha     $J /ha        I__            17h                         466         1 i         19f         7     7_661i
Gross margin/ha                   $ /ha   ~                5 1 1...                    1J11                    32[I I                11
A. Benefits                   II                                                  __        ____                            
Yield Product                      t40    1040                         301 320        960      6.0    55      330      15.0     95 1.425
Yield Bv-Product                   t     I     2.0    20       4012                     2      2.5     4       1 0     3.0       5    1 5
Total Benefits               I Sa   t___  t___I                20        t___        962 ____340  L___I __   1440
B. Variable Costs              ____    ___                 ___                    ___                      ______
Seed                             JkL           180   0.16       29     60  0.18        1 1     30   0.14        4   2.500    0.30   750
Fertilizer                     _____             0   0.00        0      0  0.00         0       0   0.00        0        0   0.00      0
-Urea                             kg          100   0.24       24      50  0.24        12      50   0.24       12       0   0.24      0
Ammo Nitrate                     k~g.....     150   0.23      35    150  0.23         35     100   0.23       23      200    0.23    46
-TSP                            ji...         200   0.18       36    200  0.18        36      150   0.18       27     300    0.18    54
-Potash                       kjR             1001  0.131    13         01 0.13         0     100   0.13       13     250    0.131  33
-Complex fertilizer             kig...   __0   0.32 __ 0 _   00.32                      0 __ 0   0.32           0 __  0   0.32 __(
Organ.fertilizer                kJiz.        1 500  0.003 __ 5  1,5001 0.003            5 __ 0  0.003           0   3.000  0.003       9
Plant protection chemicals         It     ___5   7.50           38      15  7.50      113       4   7.50       30       10   7.50    75
Machinery rent (including fuel)          _____0   0.0            0      0  0.00         0 ___0   0.00           0 ___0   0.00          0
-for ploughing                    ha    ____2  20.00           40 ___1 20.001         20      1.0  20.00       20 ___  2  20.00    40
-for land preparation             ha    _ __1  12.00           12 __1 12.00            12      1.0  12.00      12 ___2   12.00    24
-for sowing                       ha     I__   1  6.001         6       1  6.00         6      1.0  6.00        6        0    6.00    0
-for fertilizer distribution      ha    ____1   6.001           6       1  6.00         6      1.0  6.00        6        3   6.00    1 8
-for cultivation                  ha             1   6.00       6       4  6.00        24     0.0  6.00         0        0   6.00     0
-for harvest wheat                ha             1  25.00      25       0 25.00         0     0.0  25.00        0        1  25.00    25
-for harvest fodder crop          ha            0   6.00        0i      01 6.00         0     4.0  6.00        24        0   6.00     0
Transport Costs                lurmp sum         2   7.50       15  I__1  8.001         8        1   8.00       8i       11 . 8.00    85
Hired labor                       dav           30   0.70       211   1501 0.701      105L    30   0.701       21]    2501  0.70   175
[Total var. costs/ha              S/ha                                    I jiL J3911L             J J1        2061        1         11.257
[lGross margin/ha             $1 /ha    ZiiIZIIZiI]ill IIilliII571iIIIlII ]LilI134IIII:1IIllIZ                            1           184
-54-



Tajikistan: Farm Privatization Support Project
CROP BUDGET
Without Project
Crops              _____J          Onions                  Vegetables_(B  RI)il      Orchards (Arpples)  L    Gragses
Current______________1999 _______   __Unit_____  Units____  Unit____  Value____  Units__  Pric  ale  Units___  __Unit___  Value____  Units___  Unit_____Value___
Current (1999)  1   Unit      Units   Un~~Pitc  auents          Ui       auej  nt    UncePitc      ale Unt   Unitc Vlu
~A. Output                    _ _ _ _              ___III
Y)ield Product                     t          7.0    110       770]    5.0      120     600]    8.0      110      880     7.51  lOS    788]
ield By-Product                  t           1.0       2        2j    1.0       10      10j    1.0        5        5     o.5    to 
rotal Outnut                  us S /b[ha    __                772]                     610]                      885                    793]
B. Variable Costs                                 I______
Seed                              kg75    1.50                 113       1   20.00       20      55     5.00      275     1101  2.00    220
Fertilizer                                                       0    _________           0 ____0                            10
-Urea                            kg          100    0.24       24       01    0.24       0        0     0.24       0       0   0.24,      0
-Nitrates                        kg         200    0.23        46    2501   0.23        58     220      0.23      51    200   0.23       46
-TSP                             kg         200    0.18,       36    200      0.18      36,    110      0.18,     20    250   0.18       45
-Potash                          kg          150    0. 131     20    200      0.13      26      100     0.131     1 3    250   0.13      33
-Cornpound fertilizer            kg      0O 0.32                0       0     0.32       0      0       0.32       0       00.32          0
Farm Yard Manure                 kg        3.000   0.003         9   1,500    0.003       5   3.000    0.003        9   3.000  0.003       9
Plant protection chemicals        It           6    7.50        45       8     7.50      60       8     7.50       60      12, 7.50,    90
Farm Machinery Services                                          0 ___                    0                         0                      0
-for ploughing                   ha            3   18.00       54       2    18.00      36,       2,  18.00       36       1  18.00      1 8
-for land preparation            ha            2   10.00       20       1    10.00      1 0       I1  10.00,      10       1I10.00       1 0
-for sowing                      ha            0    5.00        0       1     5.00       5        0     5.00       0       0   5.00       0
-for fertilizer distribution     ha            2    5.00       10       1     5.00       5        2     5.00      t0        1   5.00      5
-for cultivation                 ha            0    5.00,       0       0     5.00       0        0     5.00       0       0,  5 00       0
-for harvest                     ha            0   22.00        0       0,  22.00        0        0   22.00        0       01 22.001      0
Transport Costs               lump sum         3   25.00        75       1    25.0       25       2   25.00        50       1 25.00       25
Hired labor                      day         250    0.70       175    250      0.70     175     250.   0.70.    175    2501 0.70    175
Total variable costs/ha          $/hsa    ___626                           ____         460                       708676
Gross marein/ha         S~~~/ha                       146          ____         150                       17117
Wifth Projedt - at full devE lrmnnrt (in year 5 of proiect Implementation)I
A. Benefits                                 I ___                                   
Yield Product                     t         10.0    110    1,100      8.0      120     960    12.0      110    1,320    10.0   105   1,050
Yield By-Product                  t          2.0       2         4     2.0       10      20,    2.0        5       10      1.0    10      10
Total Benefits                  $/ha    ___        -        1.104                      98_ L..20      1=330                           1,060
B. Variable Costs                         _______                                                     ___
Seed                              keg         55    2.25,    124         1    50.00      25      55.   6.00i    330       110   3.00    330
Fertilizer                    _____            0    0.001        0      0      0.00       0       0     0.00        0       0   0.00       0
- Urea                            kg         100    0.24        24    100      0.24      24       0      0.24       0       0   0.24       0l
- Ammo Nitrate                    kg         200    0.23        46    200      0.23      461   250      0.23       58    200   0.23       461
- Phospate                        kg         250    0.18        45    250      0.18      45     250     0.18       45     250   0.18      451
- Potash                          kg         250    0.13        33    250-    0.13       33     250     0.13       33    250   0.3        33
- Complex fertilizer              kg           0    0.32         0       0     0.32       0       01   0.32,        0       0   0.32       0
Organic.fertilizer                kg       3,000   0.003,        9   3.00    0.003        9   3,000    0.003        9   3.000  0.003       5
Plant prote tion chemicals        It          15    7.501    113        15     7.50     113      10     7.50       75      10   7.50    113
Farm Machinery Services                        0    0.00         0       0     0.00       0       0     0.00        0       0   0.0        0
-for ploughing                   ha            3   20.00       60       3    10.00      30        3   20.00       60        1 20.00,    18
-for land preparation            ha            2   12.00       24       2,   12.00      24        2    12.00      24        1  12.00     10
-for sowing                      ha            0    6.00        0 __0         6.00       0        0,   6.00,       0       0   6.00       0
-for fertilizer distribution     ha           2    6.00        12       2     6.00      12        2     6.001     12        1  6.00       5
-for cultivation                 ha            0    6.00,       0       0     6.00       0        0     6.00       0       0   6.00       0
-for harvest wheat               ha            0   25.001       0       0    25.00       0        0   25.00        0,      0  25.00       0
-for harvest fodder crop         ha            0    6.0         0       0     6.00       0,       0     6.00       0       0. 6.00.       0
Transport Costs               lump sum         2    8.00        16       1     8.00       81       1    8.00        8       1 8 800        8
ire laor                       day         250    0.80      200    220       0.80     176     20      0.80      210    210   0.801   168
(otal var. costsJla         [..../j&....IbI1ia                                          54.....~  ~1                 1              1T
[gross margin/ba             I...S/he...I                      399                      4316        I              kj I              1i  2811
-55-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
Years Ending
I Year  I   Year2  I  Year3  F Year4             Year5       Year6  | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs              1.1         5.6         6.1         4.5        3.1         0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs                0.2        0.5         0.7         0.8         0.9         0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs             1.3         6.1         6.8         5.3         4.0         0.0        0.0
Total Financing                  1.3        6.1         6.8         5.3         4.0         0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                      1.1        5.5         5.9         4.5         3.0        0.0         0.0
Govemment                     0.2        0.4         0.7         0.6         0.8        0.0
Central                   0.2         0.4         0.7        0.6         0.8        0.0         0.0
Provincial                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                 0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiares       0.0         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2        0.0         0.0
Others                        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing         1.3        6.1         6.8         5.3         4.0        0.0         0.0
=YearI        Year2       Year3       Year4      Year5       Year.6      Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             1.1         5.6        6.0         4.6         3.1        0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.2        0.5         0.7         0.8         0.9        0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs            1.3         6.1         6.7         5.4         4.0        0.0         0.0
Total Financing                 1.3        6.1         6.7         5.4         4.0        0.0         0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                     1.1        5.5         5.9         4.6         3.0        0.0         0.0
Govemment                    0.2         0.4        0.6         0.6         0.8        0.0         0.0
Central                  0.2         0.4         0.6         0.6         0.8        0.0        0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2        0.0         0.0
Others                       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0          0.0
Total Project Financing        1.3        6.1         6.7         5.4         4.0        0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
The Project would be declared effective by end July ; 2. Government would be able to put in the special account in
the local account counterparts finds as agreed to during discussions.
-56-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
Procurement
1.    Procurement of goods will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. Goods and technical
assistance to be fnanced by the Government will be procured in accordance with the public procurement
regulations or the regulations. These procurement arrangements will be revised, as necessary, for the
subsequent phases of the program. A general procurement notice will be published in the Development
Business of the UN in its issue of April 16, 1999.
Procurement responsibilities
2.    All procurement for the project will be coordinated and approved by the Project Management Unit
(PMU). All the procurement for project implementing agencies i.e The Ministry of Water Resources
(MOWR) responsible for supervision of irrigation and drainage works; State Land Committee (SLC)
responsible for rendering assistance to the farm privatization, restructuring land rights registration; the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) responsible for farmers training and advisory services, Non-Government
agencies responsible for organizing credit associations etc, will be managed centrally by the PMU. All
procurement related activities will be carried out by the local PMU staff under the supervision of an
international procurement specialist recruited on full time basis for an initial period of 12 months. The
Director, PMU will be responsible for the overall management and supervision of project procurement.
The local PMU procurement staff will be trained by an internationally recruited procurement specialist in
Bank procurement proceduresb and practices. The performance of the procurement consultant and the need
for extension of his/her services will be assessed during project supervision and appropriate modifications
will be made accordingly. The project involves the procurement of civil works, goods and equipment and
services by public and by private sector agencies. Procurement procedures are described in the following
paragraphs and summarized in Table 6.1.
(a)    Goods. For goods procurement packages estimated to cost US$100,000 or more each, the
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure will be used; and for contracts under
US$100,000 each, International Shopping (IS), based on comparison of quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers in two different countries will be applied. For locally available off-the-shelf
goods, estimated to cost up to US$ 50,000 each, National Shopping will be applied, based on
comparison of quotations obtained from at least three suppliers. For the purchase of goods to be
awarded through ICB, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 15 percent or the amount
of applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods in
accordance with the Guidelines referred to above. The aggregate for each procurement method is
given in the footnotes under Table A.
(b)   Civil Works. Civil works contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more will
be procured through ICB. The procedure applicable for procurement of minor works will be used
for contracts up to US$60,000. These works will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
-57-



contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors
in response to a written invitation. The invitation will include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully. For the aggregate, see Table A.
(c)    Consultants' Services. Consultants' services estimated to cost more than US$200,000
per contract will be selected through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedure.
Such contracts will be advertised in the Development Business and a national newspaper for
expression of interest from which a shortlist will be drawn. Consultants for assignments of a
standard or routine nature estimated to cost up to the equivalent of US$200,000 each may be
selected through the least cost selection method. Individual experts will be selected in accordance
with Part V of the consultant guidelines. Selection based on consultants' qualification will be
conducted for the training contracts, in accordance with para. 3.7 of the consultants guidelines. For
the aggregates, see the footnotes under Table A. There will be a sole source (SS) procurement
contract for the preparation of detailed survey and preparation of maps for ten project farms,
division of state and collective farms in to individual parcels and up to the stage of issue of
individual land right certificates. This contract will be between the State Land Committee and the
Land Design Institute (GIPROZEM) at an estimated cost not to exceed US$160,000. The project
will also have two sole source contract total not exceeding US $ 161,000 between the Project
Management Unit and the Irrigation and Drainage Design Institute (I&DDI) for the details survey
and design works up to the stage of bidding document preparation for the initial two contracts for
irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation works in the farms. Sole sorcing is necessary at least in the
initial phases of project implementation since GIPROZEM is the only institute which has all the
land records including the detailed maps of each farms and cadastral data and would be cost
effective. Similarly the I&DDI have all the relevent detailed data on all the Irrigation and drainage
infrastructure whaich are to be repaired and rehabilitated which is difficult for another competing
agencies.  the design and bid document preperation contract shall be awarded on QCBS basis as
one contract for the remaining six farms. GIPROZEM and I&DDI are independent agencies and
have the necessary basic data and expertise.
(d)    Procurement: One time privatization  grant and  consultant services for the
establishment of rural savings and credit association: The one time privatization grant for the
newly emerging private family farms will be implemented by the Savings Bank of Tajikistan
(Tajiksberbank) under an agency agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the
Tajiksberbank. A commisssion of 3% (three percent) of the disbursed grant amount received by the
eligible private family farms will be paid to the Tajiksberbank for the management services
rendered. As regards the establishment of rural savings and credit association, the services of an
international NGO suitably qualified and experienced in the operation and management of such
associations will be selected in accordance with the Bank's consultant procurement through QCBS
procedures.
Recurrent Costs. The project includes US$ 3.212 million to meet the operational costs, salaries
of locally recruited consultants for the PMU, and advisory centers, rent, consumables, communications,
etc. These will be procured in accordance with an annual budget to be approved by the Bank.
3.     All contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000 and for works US$200,000 or more will be subject
to prior review by the Bank. With respect to Services, prior Bank review will be required of all terms of
-58-



reference, irrespective of the contract value. For each contract estimnated to cost US$200,000 or more,
after the technical proposal has been evaluated, the technical evaluation report will be submitted to the
Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals. For contracts estimated to cost
US$ 100,000 or more the Bank will be notified of the results of the technical evaluation prior to the opening
of the financial proposals. For contracts with firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000, the Bank will
review the terms of reference. For contracts with individual consultants costing US$25,000 or more the
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment shall be furnished to the Bank for
its review and approval prior to contract signature. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post review by
the Bank.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
In US$ million equivalent "
Procurement Method
Expenditure Catogory          ICB           NCB           Other'         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                 5.6            0.0           0.28           0.0           5.90
(4.50)3/       (0.0)         (0.22)          (0.0)         (4.72)
2. Goods                4.35            0.0          0.37            0.0           4.72
(3.70)         (0.0)         (0.31)         (0.0)         (4.01)
3. Technical Assistance/        0.0            0.0          5.106/          0.0           5.10
Training                (0.0)         (0.0)          (4.33)         (0.0)         (4.33)
4. One Time Grant            0.0            0.0           3.70           0.0           3.70
(0.0)         (0.0)         (3.70)          (0.0)         (3.70)
5. Line of Credit to RCAs       0.0            0.0           0.84            0.0           0.84
(0.0)         (0.0)         (0.67)          (0.0)         (0.67)
6. Recurrent Costs           0.0            0.0           3.21           0.0           3.21
(0.0)         (0.0)         (2.57)          (0.0)         (2.57)
Grant Total            9.97           0.0           13.50           0.0          23.47
IDA Funded            (8.19)         (0-0)         (11.81)         (0.0)        (20.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2. Works-Other includes ten minor civil works ($0.22 million)
3. Works- ICB includes eight ICB contracts ($4.5 million)
4. Goods-ICB includes seven ICB contracts ($3.7 million)
5. Goods- Others includes: a) Two IS contract ($ 0.17 million);and
b) three NS contract ($ 0.15 mllion);
6. Services: TA/Training -Other includes:  a) Eleven QCBS contracts ($ 3.085 million);
b)five LCS contracts ($0.286million);
c) 16 CQ contracts ($0.392million);
d) 13 individual contracts ($0.335million); and
e) three sole source contracts ($0.237 million).
-59-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                              Selection      Method
Services
Expenditure           QCBS    QBS            SFB        LCS            CQ            Other    Total
Category                                                                                        Cost
A. Firms               3.59        0.00        0.00         0.33          0.46        0.28         4.66
(3.08)     (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.28)        (0.39)       (0.24)      (3.99)
B. Individuals         0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00           0.00        0.44         0.44
(0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.34)      (0.34)
Total            3.59        0.00        0.00         0.33          0.46         0.72        5.1
(3.08)     (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.28)        (0. 39)      (0.58)      (4.33)
I\ Including contingencies
Note:      QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), ommercial Practices, etc.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                        Contracts Subject to
Threshold                 Procurement                  Prior Review
Expenditure Category           (US$ thousands)                 Method                    (US$ millions)
1. Works                      200                         ICB                         4,500
2. Goods                      100                        ICB                          3,700
3. Services                    200                        QCBS                         2,610
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      10,910
-60-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount in          Financing Percentage
Expenditure Category            US$million
Goods                                  3.36         100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost and 75% local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Works                                  4.52         85 %
Consultants and Training               3.90         100 %
One time grant and Credit-line         3.93         100 %
Recurrent Costs                        2.31         90 % first year,
85% second year and
80% third & fourth year and
75% last year
Unallocated                            2.00
Total Project Costs                   20.00
Total                                 20.00
Financial Management andAccounting:
4.     The FMS for the projected has evaluated the current financial management and accounting
practices and the steps necessary to institute an adequate financial management and accounting systems
to meet OP/BP 10.02. The evaluation was prepared on the basis of consultants reports and discussions
with the project team and the Financial Management Officer for the project who has been involved in
the preparation of this project from its early stages.
Organizational Structure and Internal Capacity:
5.     The Project Management Unit (PMU) along with the Project Implementation Units (PlUs) at
the six raions would be responsible for the financial management and accounting for the project. The
functional responsibilities for financial and accounting at the PMU would be (a) Project Director (b)
Chief Office Manager (c) Chief Accountant and (d) Financial Specialist.
6.     Given the dearth of adequate local expertise in the area of financial accounting it would be
-61-



necessary to recruit an international consultant for the first two years of the project. This consultant
would have a dual responsibility of providing training on financial management, accounting and
budgeting and also be responsible for overseeing the accounting systems (processes, book-keeping and
computer systems).
7.     Although the Project Director and the Chief Office Manager have functional responsibilities for
finance and accounting, they would be responsible for other project operations. The Financial Specialist
and the International Consultant have not been recruited as yet - they will be recruited once the project
is approved. Their recruitment would be a condition of disbursement.
8.    The main functions of the Chief Accountant are as follows:
* Supervision of the establishment and maintenance of a financial accounting system which
complies with relevant sections of the International Accounting Standards;
*   Supervision and verification of accounting entries;
*   Signatory to the Special Accounts, and local accounts at the Raions;
*  Maintenance of books of accounts for the special accounts including bank reconciliation;
* Establishment and maintenance of internal controls and procedures;
* Provide regular reports to the Management on the financial position of the Project;
* Responsible for preparation of Annual financial statements (i.e. Balance Sheet, Income and
Expenditure Statement, etc.);
*   Responsible for review of accounts at the Raions; and
*   Responsible for the Audit of Project Accounts.
9.    The main functions of the Financial Specialist would be as follows:
*   Verification of all disbursement documents;
*   Preparation of the documents and vouchers for the Bank for disbursement;
*   Establishment and maintenance of proper record keeping procedures;
*   Review of all contracts under the Project;
*   Responsibility for timely payment to suppliers and consultants under contract with the PMU
and PIUs;
*   Responsibility to ensure counterpart funding is transferred on time; and
*   Responsibility to ensure that funds are transferred to the raions in a timely manner;
- Oversee the procurement and disbursement arrangements at the Raions.
10.    The terms of reference for the international consultant are being prepared - the consultant's
primary responsibilities would include (i) maintenance of the computerized accounting system that is
being developed; (ii) preparation of the requisite project management reports (PMRs) as per the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI); and (iii) providing hands on training to the accounting and
financial staff at the PMU and PIUs on accounting, financial management and use of computerized
systems.
11.   The Project Implementation Units at the Raions would be responsible for the recording basic
accounting entries for project expenditure at the raions. Accountants would be recruited at each of
these sites would be done within an agreed time frame.
Accounting Systems:
12.    Tajikistan does not have any established accounting systems which adheres to International
Accounting Standards although there are some principles and procedures to be followed in presenting
-62-



accounting schedules to the Government.
13.   No accounting system currently exists in the PMU as yet. Consultants have reviewed the
project requirement and have recommended an accounting system, which would be implemented for the
project. The accounting for this project would be maintained in accordance with International
Accounting Standards.
14.    Separate books of accounts would be established at the six raions which forms the project sites
and would be integrated into the PMU accounts on a monthly basis. The proposed accounting system is
being developed by a consultant using an off the shelf software.
15.    An operational manual for the accounting systems are being prepared by a consultant and
should be completed by June 30, 1999.
Computer Systems:
16.   An off-the-shelf computerized accounting system  is being customized to facilitate the
accounting and reporting requirements for the project. The proposed software adheres to IAS
requirements and includes among others a general ledger module, cash disbursement journal, cash and
bank register, Fixed Assets register, financial statements etc. An international consultant who would be
recruited for the first two years of the project would maintain the system. This software would not be
able to generate the quarterly project management reports - in order to prepare these reports, data
would be downloaded into MS Excel to prepare these reports.
17.    A training program would be developed to ensure the proper implementation of the accounting.
The training program would include training on double entry accounting, international accounting
standards, financial management and use of computer software.
Internal Control Mechanism.
i8.   Along with the introduction of the new accounting system, a training program would be
introduced to develop sound internal controls. The organizational structure and responsibilities would
ensure that staff handling cash transaction is not at the same time responsible for keeping the books of
accounts. Source documents would be standardized and coded to facilitate computer entry. Steps will
be taken to introduce computerized source documentation which would reduce the need for multiple
entry of data.
19.   The proposed accounting software would have to be verified to ensure proper back up facilities
on a regular basis. Storage of back-up data will be determined prior to installation of the software. The
audit trail of the accounting system would also be tested for compliance prior to installation. Auditors
would undertake an annual review of internal controls.
Audit:
20.    Steps would be taken to appoint an external Auditor for the Project as a condition of its
effectiveness. This would include (i) advertising in the local newspapers to invite "expressions of
interest" from local audit firms; and (ii) short-listing of at least five audit frms. An Auditor acceptable
to the Bank would be appointed within the first four months of effectiveness of the project. The audit of
the project would be undertaken in accordance with International Auditing Standards. Audited financial
-63-



Statements for the project would be sent to the Bank within six months after the end of every fiscal year.
Reporting Arrangements
21.    The PMU would be required to submit annual audited financial statements within 6 months
after the end of every fiscal year, unaudited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within
three months after the end of every fiscal year.
Financial Management Reports
22.    Disbursements under the project will be based on traditional disbursement procedures.
Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in a format to be agreed upon during negotiations
would be submitted to the Bank.
Funding
23.   Adequate provisions have been made in the project cost to finance the cost of the international
consultant, the computerized systems, external audit and training programs.
Key Steps to be taken
24.    Following key steps shall be taken up by the PMUIJ
i.    Recruitment of personnel for accounting and financial management;
ii.    Installation of an accounting software;
iii.    Development of the chart of accounts for the project;
iv.    Presenting to the IDA quarterly progress reports (QPRs) on a quarterly basis; and
v.    Development of a training program;
25.   The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years. The anticipated completion date
is 03/31/2004 and the closing date is 06/30/2004. Disbursement will follow normal Bank procedures and
will be made against eligible expenditures. Table A shows estimated disbursements during the life of the
project and Table C shows allocation of credit proceeds. The financing percentages in Table C are net of
any taxes as the activities under the project are tax-exempt.
Action Plan
26.   The following action plan would be implemented to ensure that the project will have sound
financial management system in place during the execution of the project:
-64-



Description                                 Date
1.    Staffing
(a) Appointmnent of local staff             In place
One accountant and One financial analyst
(b) Appointment of international financial  July 1999
management specialist
2.     Special and project accounts in Commercial Bank  Has been opened.
3.    Selection of Auditor                         September 30, 1999
4.    Install accounting software and set up       August 15, 1999
computerized project accounts
5.    Train local specialists in accounting systems  August 1999 through January 20
and financial management
6.    Review of PMU's financial and                September 30, 1999
accounting systems by Bank's FMS
7.    Quarterly reports of project accounts
Forms lA, 1B 1C,  D, IF                    September 30. 1999
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
27.    Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be used for: (a) goods contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 each; (b) works contracts less than US$200,000 each; and (c) consultants contracts with
firms less than US$100,000, (d) individuals costing US$25,000 equivalent or less each, and (e) all
contracts under the credit line. Full documentation in support of SOE will be retained by PMU for at least
two years after the closing date of the credit. This information will be made available for review by Bank
missions during project supervision and by auditors, the minimum application size for payments directly
from the grant account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20 percent of the special account
authorization.
Special account:
28.   To facilitate disbursements, the PMU will open a Special Account before credit effectiveness and
maintain it until project completion. The Special account will be drawn upon to meet payments to
contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project. The special account will be established in a
commercial bank in Azerbaijan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
29.   The selected bank should have: (a) significant foreign correspondence network covering all
currencies; (b) reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign
payments and other international transactions; (c) capacity to perform a wide range of banking services at
local branches, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic or regional banks, issuance of debit
notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies; (d) the capacity of maintain adequate
accounts for the Special Account as required by the World Bank and provide monthly bank statements to
PMU; (e) willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to ensure that amounts deposited in the SA would not be set
off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to a commercial bank by the Borrower; and (f)
willingness to charge competitive rates for their services and provide reasonable interest income to the
balances held.
30.   The initial allocation to the Special Account will be limited to US$ 250,000. The initial allocation
may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US $500,000 once aggregate disbursement of US$ 5.00
million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications. Replenishment applications should
be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
-65-



appropriate supporting documents. Project accounts would be operated for discrete activities and funded
from the Special Account based on disbursement applications signed by the authorized officials.
-66-



Section 1: Prc iurement Revim
Goods and         ICB        NCB          IS             NS       Minor Works   Other methods   Percentage
Civil Works                                                                                       of loan
amount
subject to
prior review
Procurement  Goods > $0.100  N/A    Goods < $0.100   G < $0.050
thresholds:         ($3.70)                 ($0.17)      ($0.150)
Individual    Works > $0.200                                       W < $0.060
and                  ($4.50)                                          ($0.220)
aggregate
Prior Review   All                   N/A              N/A          N/A                           $8.2 or
G ($3.70)
W ($4.50)                                                                          41%
Consultants   OCBS            OBS         LCS         Sole Source   Qualifications  Individuals
Procurement                   NA
method       ($ 3.085)               ($0.286)        ($0.237)      ($0.392)      ($0.335)
thresholds                                                        .
Prior Review   All                                                               All terms of    $2.617
($3.085)                Terms of        Terms of      Terms of      reference;     13.1%
Reference       Reference    Reference     > $0.025 full
_____________  __________________________                    ~~review
Ex-post      Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: Each supervision mission will include a procurement specialist to
conduct ex-post reviews. One out of five contracts for goods, works and consultant services will be subject to ex-
Dost review.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementine Aeency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirement review
Capacity of the implementation agency to conduct procurement has been assessed. As a result, the following action plan will be
implemented:
(i) An international procurement consultant, experienced in the WB procedures shall be hired for initial twelve months to assist
PMU to perform procurement activities, as soon as the project becomes effective, preferably prior to the project launch workshop.
(ii) It should prepare and implement a training program, combined also with the on-the job training for the new procurement
officer.
(iii) A training to the local PS and the field implementation team members in charge shall be provided during the project launch
workshop. The PS shall be given continuous training either in Taiikistan. neighboring  countries or in Washington.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper   Are the bidding documents for the
status:                                                               procurement actions of the first year ready by
No CPAR done up to date.                                              negotiations
Yes  0                        No O
will be discussed during appraisal
Section 3: Training. Information a rd Develooment on Procuren ent
Estimated     Estimated date of    Indicate if there is  Domestic Preference for  Domestic Preference for
date of Project  publication of  procurement subject to   Goods                  Works, if applicable
Launch        General            mandatory SPN in                                Yes  El         No  E
Workshop      Procurement Notice  Development Business   Yes  0        No  O
06/00/99      04/16/99           Yes  0      No.....0
Retroactive financing                                   Advance procurement
Yes  0         No  0                        Explain:    Yes  0        No  0        Explain
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: A procurement monitoring system will be established at the PMU which will
collect and kW uR to-date all procurement data. The PCT will use this data in progress reports to the Bank.
Co-financinz: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: None
Section 4: Procurement Staffinmg
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name:
Naushad Khan. Procurement Svecialist   Ext: 32699
ExDlain brieflv the expected role of the Field Office in vrocurement: The Resident Mission does not have an accredited
-67-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  18                      16
First Bank mission (identification)     07/10/97                    09/10/97
Appraisal mission departure              12/12/98                   02/02/99
Negotiations                            04/12/99                    04/01/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            07/30/99                   09/30/99
Prepared by:
Project Management Unit, State Land Committee, Ministry of Agriculture, Hydrotech Design & Research
Institute Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan
Preparation assistance:
[PPF, trust funds, cofinanciers, etc.] Project Preparation Facility Q-108-0-TJ, Japan PHRD Grant # TF
25557,
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
NaMe                                    Seilt
Joseph Goldberg                   Sector Leader/Quality Control
Michael Nightingale               Farm Economics
Janakiram Subramaniam             Finance and Rural Credit
Maniza Naqvi                      Social Assessment
Naushad Khan                      Procurement
Ramendra N. Basu/M.Payos          Finance & Accounting Capacity Assessment
Hannah Koilpillai/ Ekaterina Kan  Disbursement
L. Holstein, E. Cook, K. Brooks,  Peer Reviewers
Mark Lundell
Jitendra Srivasthava/Peter Whitford    Environment
Valencia Copeland                 General Task Team Support
T. V. Sampath                     Task Team Leader/ Farm Restructuring & Agriculture
-68-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide memoir Preparation Mission (April 27, 1998);
Technical Notess (May, 1998);
Back to Office Report (May 7, 1998);
Minutes of the Project Appraisal Document Review Meeting ( Febryary, 1999);
Aide memoir appraisal Mission (February 19, 1999);
Back to office report ( March 5, 1999)
C. Other
Project Information Document;
Environment Data Sheet;
Assessment of the Project Management unit to conduct Procurement Under the
proposed project (February 1999);
Assessment of the Project Management unit for Financial and Accounts Management
Under the proposed project (Report February 1999);
Technicala Report on land Land Registration Component of Consultant Mr. Gavin
Adlington ( July 1998);
Technical Mission report on Farm Rhabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage System of
Consultant Professor R. Oad, Colorado university, (November 1998);
Social Assessment Report of the CARE Tajikistan on the
Farms being privatized. (November 1998);
Tajikberbank - A diagnostic Study by Arthur Anderson -(May 1998);
Laws of republic of Tajikistan -an UNDP publications (September 1997);
Problems of Small scale agri-Business in Tajikistan ( In native language)
By Mr. Hukumat Odinaev (October 1996);
Recommendations for reorganization of State and Collective farms in Tajikistan
by State Land Committee ( in Native language) November 1997; and
Land code of Tajikistan ( December 1996)
*Including electronic files
-69_



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions       disbursements7
Project ID    FY   Borrower                   Purpose                              IBRD        IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 2
TJ-PE-47438   1999 GOVT. OF TA.JIKISTAN       SAC I                                 0.00      50.00       0.00      30.20    30.01      0.00
TJ-PE-59055   1999 REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN     EMERGENCY FLOOD ASST                  0.00       5.00       0.00       5.06     0.64      0.00
TJ-PE-53386    1998 GOVT. OF TAJIKISTAN       P-C RECONSTRUCTION                    0.00      10.00       0.00       6.41     3.32      0.00
TJ-PE-44202   1997                            PILOT POVERTYALLEV.                   0.00      12.00       0.00       4.98     -0.20     0.00
Total:      0.00      77.00       0.00      46.65    33.77     0.00
Active        Closed
Projects      Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       34.29          59.13         93.42
of which has been repaid:       0.00           0.00          0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:       82.00          60.00        142.00
Amount sold:         0.00          0.00           0.00
of which repaid:       0.00           0.00          0.00
Total Undisbursed:       46.65           0.00         46.65
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-70-



TAJIKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Mar-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997/98             Zeravshan Gold                 2.00     7.45     1.20    0.00    2.00    7.45      1.20    0.00
Total Portfolio:         2.00     7.45     1.20    0.00    2.00    7.45      1.20    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
-71-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TAJIKISTAN: Farm Privatization Support Project
Europ &                                                   10/1/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Centrta      Low-
Tajikistan     Asia  Income         Development dlamond'
1997                                                             
Population, mid-year (millions)                          6,0       476     2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP pe, capita (Atlas method, US$)                      330      2,320       350
GNP (Attas method, US$ billions)                         2.0     1,106       722
Avera9, annuail growth, 191971
Population (%)                                           1.:       0.2        2.1
Labor force e%)                                         2.2        0.5        2.3     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimnate (latest year avaliahbi, 1991-97)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                 32         67        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         69         69        59                        -L
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 30         25        78
Child malnutrItion 1% of children under 6)                ,.        ..        61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water, (% of population)                                       71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       - ,t               47
Gross.primary enroltment (X ofschool-age population)     89         92        91                   Tajikistan
Male                                                   91                  100                   Low-income group
Female                                                 68                   81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
GDP (US$ billions);                              ,                 1.0        1.1     EconomIc ratlos^
Gross domestic:investmenVGDP                                       7.2        7.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP                .         .      77.0       74.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                      ,,         ,         ,,       1.6
Gross nationat savingslGOP                      ..
Current account balance/GDP                                        -7.1      -5.6      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                           :  0.0        2 9     Domes                         Investment
Totel debt/GDP                                   .,       ,.      83.9       95.6     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                       .         ..     34.0       13.9
Presernt value of debtlGDP                       ..       .       50.2
Present value of debt/exports                    ,,       6, 55,0
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)                                          7Ta k:ta
GDP                                              -      -4.4       1.7        4.4             -    aikistan
GNP per capita                                          -5.8      -0.3        2.2             -Low-income group
Exports of goods and servIces           .        .,    -0.2        2.9        5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                            20
Agriculture                                       -     28.1      32.0       34.0
Industry                                        ..    37.2        25.0       24.0      o-_,_____                ,__ __
Manufacturing                ,         ,  ,.                        .. .                   62
Services                                                34.7      43.0       42.0    -20
Private consumption                                     64.5                   ,,   -40
General government consumption                   ,.    21.7          ..        .                       G             GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ,,                81.0       80.0                      GD__ __ ___ _P
1976-86  1987-97      1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ,,               -17.8                40
Industry                                                         -23.8                20
Manufacturing
Services                                                          -350        0.
92   93   94     95      9077
Private consumption                             ..        ..                   ..    20
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment                                         -4.9       -5.9    40
Imports of goods and services                             ..    -12.9         1.3                -Exports           lmpartsnr
Gross national product
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-72-



1'ajikistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997       InflatIon (%)
Domastik prices1,0
(% change)                                                                                00
Consumer prices                                              .       41.8      88.0       750
Implicit GDP deflator                                                  ..    101.3        soo
Government finance                                                                        250
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         0 1  1
Current revenue                                     .12.1                       13.7               92    93 .4    95
Current budget balance                                       .       -4.8      -2.0                -     GOP deflator 
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..       ..       -5.8       -3.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1976     1986       1996       1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                          .        770       746      1,000
Agriculture                                                ..       304       319
Other                                                      .        466       427       75D
Manufactures                                                                            500
Total imports (cif)                                          .        808       759
Food                                                        .       122       107       250
Fuel and energy                                            .        2681      356
Capital goods                                              .. 
51   92   50   94   r,s  95   97
Export price index (1995=100)                                .      108.6     105.2
Import price index (1995= 100)                     ..       ..      114.6     110.5               aExports       U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..       ..       94.8      95.2
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                                 1976     1986       1996       1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                        800        804       0
Imports of goods end services                                .       836        868           91   92
Resource balance                                                      -36       -64       5                              I
Net income                                         ..                 -68       -38      -10
Net current transfers                                                  30   40                          E         l" ,
Current account balance                                               -74       -60
Financing items (net)                                       ..         84        43      -20
Changes in net reserves                                      .        -10        17      -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             ..        .         14        30
Conversion rate (O)EC, local/ISS)                  ..       ..    298.4       581.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1906       1996       1997
(USS millions)                                                                           Compoailtlon of total debt, 1997 (US$ millIon
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                -                 868     1,039
IBRD                                                                 0          0                           e 4
iDA                                              .                  30         50                           841 C32
Total debt service                                 .         ..       180        72            F: 3:122
IBRD                                                       .          0         0                i -
IDA                                                        .          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                     30         19
Official creditors                                        ..         36        13
Private creditors                                         ..          0         0
Foreign direct investment                                  ..        16        11
Portfolio equity                                ..                    0         0                               E: 575
World Bank program
Commitments                                               ..        55         22      A- IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                             ..        30         22       - IDA    D - Other muitilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                                      ..          0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                                  ..        30        22
Interest payments                                         ..          0         0
Net transfers                                             ..         30        22
Development Economics                                                                                                        1011/98
-73-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Letter of Development Policy
President
Republic of Tajikistan
Dushanbe
May 12, 1999
Dear Mr. Linn:
Subject: The Development Policy for Agricultural Sector for Republic of Tajikistan
Recovery of the agricultural sector is critical for the economic development and to
provide macro-economic stability in our country. Since the peace accord, the Government has
managed to intensify its commitment to econornic reforms and macro-economic stabilization.
One of the key achievements over the past two years has been the growth in GDP - nearly 2
percent in 1997 and an estimated 5 percent in 1998 : the first increase since independence. Other
indicators have also shown similar signs of revival, such as drop in fiscal deficit from 5.8 percent
of GDP in 1996 to 3.2 percent in 1998, and together with a tight monetary policy, bringing the
inflation rate to about 3 percent in 1998. The rapid decline in agricultural production levels and
farm incomes during the last few years appears to have reached a bottom and is also showing
signs of reversal, especially through increased production in the newly created Dekhan (private)
farms. We expect these policies to be continued, which would provide a favorable environment
for developing a competitive private sector agricultural sector - which still is in early stages of
development.
In order to realize the full potential of the natural resources and comparative advantage in
the agricultural sector, we would like to work with the World Bank and other interested donors to
assist us in addressing the following major areas:
(a) Farm Privatization - Government's policy to develop private family farms and create
land use rights market: We have made Noticeable progress in the privatization of the former
state and collective farms since 1997. Private use of land is occurring throughout the country
with varying degrees of success and more dependent on the initiatives of the raion administrations
and others concerned than on official processes. In this regard, we have issued Presidential
decrees (Numbers 499, 522 and 1021), and these are being implemented in various raions. This
has resulted in the following broad types of private land use rights: (a) creation of new private
Dekhan farms based on nuclear families (husband, wife, children) or extended families, often as a
second-stage break-up of "Brigade Farms"; (b) retaining the existing Brigade' structure of the old
Sovkhoz/ Kolkhoz farms; and (c) reorganization of the former state and collective farms into
structures such as Joint Stock Companies, Lease Enterprises, Dekhan Associations or Collective
Farms. We recognize that, if this process is not managed carefully, the situation would result in
the lack of fair and transparent processes and inequities in land distribution, which would have
very adverse consequences. Dekhan farms, based on natural family ties and internal trust and
cooperation, are being formed, which represent genuine forms of private frnning with true
-74-



feelings of ownership of their new land holdings - and we consider this as a very positive
development. Our present system, unfortunately has led to high costs of obtaining land use rights
and our procedures are complex and time consuming. In this regard, our Government ahs recently
issued a Presidential Law (dated April 2, 1999) for the establishment of a simple land registry
system. We would like to seek the support of the World Bank to develop: (a) mechanisms to
ensure fair and equitable distribution of land use rights and the creation of fair and competitive
land use rights market; (b) increase people's awareness of all aspects of the land privatization and
farm restructuring process; and (c) simplify the procedures, design and implement mechanisms
which would reduce fees for obtaining land certificates.
(b). Agricultural Support Services - Govemment policy to increase competition in the
provision of essential agricultural support services
The support services for the privatized farm units to increase crop productivity, obtain
fair market prices, retain incomes and increase opportunities for re-investment need
improvement. Due to lack of budgetary resources, the Govemment is unable to continue
providing the required farm inputs and support services to the reorganized farms. Further, the
unstable political and economic situation has led to some restrictions in the movement of goods
and services. The absence of a functioning rural credit mechanism, and collateral based lending
of banking institutions with the required capability to lend to the rural sector, and of supporting
infrastructure have added to the severity of the problem. We recognize that in order to improve
the Dekhan farm productivity and incomes in the short to medium term, we have committed to
accelerating the reforms in the agricultural sector, develop alternative marketing, financing and
credit mechanisms for input and output supplies, introducing new types of tested agricultural
technologies from other similar agro-ecological zones in the world, remove artificially created
trade barriers, and provide the much needed farm inputs and incentives to sustain privatized farm
units. We are grateful to the World Bank and other donors who have supported us in our efforts to
improve provision of essential support services and would like to continue to work as partners in
these important areas.
(c). Liberalization of agricultural prices, trade and privatization of agro-enterprises-
Government's continued commitment to provide a liberalized price and trade environment,
promote competition and privatize agro-enterprises
We have fully liberalized the prices of fruits, vegetables, grain and livestock products and inputs
and Government quotas have been abolished. We realize that the cotton sector continues to be
affected by low raw seed cotton producer prices, partly as a result of high levels of taxation and
high transaction costs involved in the marketing, transport and export of lint cotton by financing
and marketing intermediaries. These factors combined with the low irrigated cotton yields -
which are in the range of 2 to 3 tlha as compared to the potential of over 4 t/ha - have resulted in
reduced foreign exchange earnings to the economy and reduced farm incomes. We are in the
process of reforming the price setting mechanism, which includes informing the seed cotton
producers the prices before the planting season; implementing a system of written agreements
assuring the price to be received at the time of delivery between the farmer and the prospective
buyers. We would like to seek the support of the World Bank and other interested donors in our
efforts to promote competition in the processing and marketing of cotton - a process which we
have initiated under the Institution Building and Technical Assistance Credit and the Structural
Adjustment Credit financed by IDA. We remain committed to successful completion of the
privatization of cotton ginneries and to increase the producer prices of cotton. In this regard, the
Government has issued an Information Memorandum for the sale of cotton ginneries in the
Republic of Tajikistan. In this 22 state owned cotton gunneries are offered for sale. So far, six
ginneries have been sold and the remainder would be sold to private investors by the end of 1999.
-75-



*(d). Irrigation Systems - Government's policy to increase water use efficiency, cost
recovery mechanisms and creation of water user's associations
Agriculture in Tajikistan is dependent on irrigation, which in some regions, is highly
energy intensive due to the high-lift pumping schemes. The process, so far has been dependent
on the low cost availability of electric powd. In most cases, the canal water level is lower than
the agricultural land, which makes it necessary for the water to be lifted by large pumping
stations into main canals. Given that electricity, pumping, and operation and maintenance of
irrigation and drainage systems have historically been provided free to the farms, we realize that
water use is excessive in Tajikistan agriculture, and particularly in pumping schemes. The main
system facilities in most farms have deteriorated to the extent that water supplies are reduced by
about 40 percent. We are in the process of reforming the irrigation sector, passed he Water Code,
preparing the procedures for the formation of water users' associations (WUAs) and we are
taking initiatives to gradually increase the water charges to recover Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) costs, based on the water users' ability and willingness to pay. We would like to seek the
support of the World Bank and other interested donors to: (a) evaluate the economic feasibility of
high lift irrigation systems, which involves pumping water, in some cases, to elevations more
than 150 meters ( involving beyond 6 cascades), - especially in areas where the farmers grow
only one crop of cotton and some winter wheat and if market prices were to be charged for
electricity; (b) Rehabilitation of pumping stations, irrigation and drainage works - which is
already being initiated by the World Bank; (c) Institutional mechanisms for setting, collection and
use of water charges and transfer of responsibility of operation and maintenance to the "water
users" - which we consider essential for sustainable increase in crop productivity.
(e) Creation of sustainable rural savings and credit mechanisms: Government's policy
to develop member owned rural savings and credit associations and enforcement of prudential
guidelines and regulatory mechanisms The absence of appropriate rural financial mechanisms has
been a major constraint in the development of the rural sector. In this regard, we are pleased to
inform you that the National Bank of Tajikstan has passed a resolution recently (January 1999)
permitting the establishment of rural savings and credit association, Agroinvestment bank has
been privatized and Tajiksberbank has been restructured. The assistance of the World Bank in all
these efforts is greatly appreciated. We would like to request continuing support of the World
Bank and other interested donors to bring world experience to assist in the design, establishment
and implementation of sustainable rural financial mechanisms.
Government's commitment to develop a competitive market oriented
agricultural sector: Through this letter, we confirm the continuing commitment of the
Government of Tajikistan to continue the agrarian reforms in the areas of land privatization.
increasing competition in the provision of essential agricultural support services, provide a
liberalized price and trade environment, privatize agro-enterprises, introduce cost recovery
mechanisms in for water resources development, and develop member owned rural savings and
credit associations and adopt prudential guidelines and regulatory mechanisms. We have
constituted the National Commission on reorganization of Agricultural Enterprises, (established
by a Presidential Decree #522 along with the accompanying regulations issued on 25 June 1998
was revised. A committee is constituted to oversee the implementation of this commission with
the following members: Deputy Prime Minister Republic of Tajikistan Mr. Mansurov J. M.;
State Counselor to the President Mr. Babaev; Minister of Agriculture Mr. Kabirov Sh.F.; Minister
of Finance Mr. Muzaffarov A. M.; Minister of Economics Mr. Ismonov D.; Minister of Justice
1 Presently, the cost of electric power is highly subsidized. The agriculture sector pays only 0.4 T-Rubles/kwh or 0.05
Cents/kwh.
-76-



Mr. Ismailov Sh. M.; Chairman of National Bank Republic of Tajikistan Mr. Alimardonov M.M.;
Chairman of Land Reform Committee Mr. Khairulloev S. Kh.; Chairman of State Privatization
Committee Mr. Davlatov M.D; and Director of Farm Privatization Project Mr. Ostonaev T.O.
This committee has been constituted to formulate, monitor and implement these reforms. We
are pleased to inform you that we are addressing all these areas in the Farm Privatization Support
Project, which has been successfully negotiated early last month. We would like to stress again
our continued commitment to develop a competitive market oriented agricultural sector and,
together with the World Bank and other donors prepare and execute rural development programs
for improving the livelihoods of more than 70 percent of Tajikistan's six million people.
Signed
Imomali Rahmanov
The President of Republic of Tajikistan
To.
Mr. Johannes Linn
Vice President
The World Bank
-77-



A7peawdeim                  Hpe3udenm a                       President
Pecny    u4xy                         a                       Republic of
Ta&'uwacmau                   Toywaowman                          Tiistan
r. bmaH&6e                                            12 mas 1999 roga
O IIOJIITIICE PA3BHITHA CEJITC]KOXO3fi1ICTBEHHOFO CEKTOPA
PECIYBJIH  TAKHCICTAH
YBaxcaeMIIi rocrioaxH JIH,
BoccTaHoBjieHHe   ceimcKoxo3jIfCTBeHHoro   ceKTopa,    AIOwMerocM
KT1oxIeBoHI oTpacJEhIo 3KOHOMIH  cTpaHb,  IBIeTcS npRIopiTeTHOR 3a,Aaqe
HiuHeiiHero 3Tana pa3BHHs.
HlogmfcaHHe M1pHoro corIameHFs C03,aa0 Heo6Xoammie YCJ1OBHS Xws
ycKopeHsA  3KoHoM-ecKIx  pe4opM  ii gocmwKeHmm  MaKpo3KoHoMwqecKo
cTa6wnmIau=  cTpaHlI. O,HM  H3 rJIaBHEaX ,gocTr eHi  nocjie,mx zByx IeT
5[BJLJeTCr pOCT BBH. B 1997 rogy BBrI yBemjmHnC Ha 2,1%, a B 1998 rogy - Ha
5,3%. Taxe  HmeioTcM  H  ,pyrme  rioKa3aTeJm, CBxgerei cTByoe  o
gocTyryx ycnexax: B 1998 rogy ze4iwr 6ioawera cocraBwi 3,8%. )Kecxasi
6ioawceTnaa i AeHexcHo-KpexIKHaS riomrma no3Bo=aa CHR3RTm lfH4ulmO B
1998 rony ao 2,7 %.
Ezo IlIpeeocxodumeabcmey
zocnotouny koxairuecy Jfluiy
Bu(e-npe3uoenmy Bce-nupHozo LaNca
Pezuou Esponb&  u Henmpaabuozu A3uu
Bauwuizmon
-78-



3
(6)   CeiibCKoX03A3JcmeeHHble  cj7yOfC6bz   no63epCKu   -   noAumuKa
]Ipa6UMeAbcm6a  B ycuwe-iuu  KOHKypeni4uu  u  e o6ecnexieHuu  noMcepwwu
ceAbCKOXO3AfuCm6eHHbIX cmpyiKmyp.
IIpaBHTenmcmo    rIoHmaerT  HeoHxo6 HMocTn    coBepieHcTBoBaH1H
MexaHH3Ma ripegoCTaBneHH ycjiyrro nozuqepzxe IIpmBaTH3HpOBaHHBX X03SIiCTB
,1i1i  yBemJI1MeHHA  rpOM3BOAreALHOCTH, yBe eH    ,OXOZOB  X03AfICTB  I
B03Mo)KHOCTeA HHBeCTHpOBaHHa. 13-3a ae#ura 6ioveTa, UpaBHreimcmo He B
COCTOIHHH OKm3aT  Heo6XoHmyio iiOMoIaB pe#pMHpOBaHHMM X03ACTBaM, a
OTCYTCTBHe MXeaHH3Ma KpeaHTOBaHH, BbIwaa  Kpe=TOB l0Q  3ajior, a TaKme
6aHRoBcKMx yqpe)FgeHH  C Heo6xoIUIMm  o6semoM cpezcTB Jm KpeArMToBamH
cenibcKoro  ceicopa H  rIo,ep(HBaioIneii KHpacTpyKTypfI, - YCJ1O)LWIT
upo6neMy. IpaBrTemCTBo oco3aeT, Tro   A roBbwineHHA 0nM         H     OC
;XexKaHcKHX X03SIICTB Ha KpaTKocpo,HoH   aOlIroCpo1Hof ocHoBe, Heo6xoaHmo
ycKopemxe H yrjTy6JieHHe 3KoHoMirecKHx pe#opM  B CeJrCKOX03AHcTBeHHoM
ceKTope; pa3BiTHe aJTepHaTHBHbDI pBIHO ERbIX H #HaHCOBix MeXaH3MOB 110
npeAocTaBJieHmo KpeZHToB, o6ecfeMieHmIo CeJILcKoX033HcTBeEHMHm   pecypcaMH,
a TaKoKe c6Trry rOTOBOrI npoyfKI]HH; BHeaepHe HeOBLX CeJThCKOX03AfCTBeHIX
TeXHOjOio   I43 CTpaH, HaxOXIMIXC5  KaK  H  Hama  ca,  B  TOH  )ce
arpo3KojiorHNecKor  3OHe; npeoloJIeHHe  HMeI-olUiXCA  TOPrOBb1X  6apbepoB;
o6ecreaeHHe  X03,qACTB  BCeMH  Heo6XoaiiMb}im  cejTbCKOX03xoicTBeHHbiMIH
pecypcaMH, TeM caMMM EmIio0po15 ycTofWHBoe pam3BHTHe nHpmBaTH3HpoBaHHwIx
X03AACTB. MbI 6narouaphi BCeM TeM ROHOpaM, KOTopbIe POTOBLI fIOA9ep)KaTB Hac
B nTOM rlaHe, B qacTHOCTH, BcempHovy Baicy.
(6) fIu6epawu3azjuw ieuH Ha ceJlbcKoxo3)?ucmeeHy7o npoayKzyubo, mopeoCilo,
a maKcce npu6amu3aziuv ceJzbcKoXo3AucmeeHHblx npednpu.Rmuii - IlpaBHTeJmcTBo
IIpOaOJDIKaeT HpOBOHIHT  faOJIHTHKY 110 C03.aHHIO H no=epxe 6iiaronpisTHoii
cpegmI  ira JIm6epam3auHH  ileH Ha ce11bCKOXo3HHcTBeHi0o ripoxayKgo  H
Co3ZaHRA KoEKypeHTHocIIoco6Horo pLKa, a TaKoe ycxopeHnx ripmTH3aLI
ceJThcKoxo3siJcTBeKHHx iipexTfAlpaTHH.
Bce  ieBKbI Ha  ce.jCKOXo3ArlcTBeHHyio  ripo,ayKuio, a  Taioe  Ha
cejmcxoxo3sfcTBeHHbIe      pecypcBr       nojiHocThio     jiH6epamI3oBaH:w;
IpaBHTeITPcTBeHHBIe KBOTI oTmeHeHm. OaHaKo iHBOXBCTBO xjToriKa, Ha Ham
B3rJIsA, BCe e:me HaX0XrCA Ha HH3KOM ypOBHe 1E3-3a HH3KOrO KaTqecTBa ceMaH
XJIOIIXa, BICOKHX HalIOrOB H TpaHCIIOpTHIX paCXOAOB, CBI3aHRBIX Co c6brroM, a
TaIK)e 3KCIIOpTOM  XJIOIIKOBOIIoKHa, KOTOpbIH 4aHCHpyeTCSA   peH     ye
riompemKaMR. Bce 3TH #aKTopI, HapAgy C HH3KHM IIPOH3BOaCTBOM XJIorIKa
(1,5-2,0 T\ra), no CpaBHeHm   c lioTeHLlaJIbHLM nIpo3BoucTBoM cBLIme 4T\ra,
3HaxHTemJBHO yMelHBm11J  iOCTyoT JIeHHe BaJUOTMI B 3KOHOMHKY CTpaBI, H
co0cpaTIH  ;X0oxo      X03AICTB.  TIpaBHTejTbCTBo   ripeX1pMmaeT   pAg
-79-



4
iieo6xoamLix Mep usI 6LicTpelmero BOccTaHoBJIeHHH caMoro BaUH0ro ceKropa
3KOHOMHKK. Mi  nepecMoipHm  MeXaHH3M  riO r=caHm  ,oroBopoB  Mewv
pOM3BO ,XH eMH xjionra H rIoTeHimajrb?hMH no0Kyn:aTeJEHMH, T.e. goroBop
mexLIy pO H3BO=eMM  H BO3MO)KHLB   IIOKY0IaTe1M1 9OeH rapairrpOBaT
cBoeBpemeHHyio orimiaaTy, no mepe IIocTaBKx xjioria. ME,I Haaeemcu Ha rio=epxmy
BceMHpHoro BaHICa EI Apyrx  OHOpOB 110 C03gaHEH10 coHKypeHTocnOCO6HOF
cepmI B o6nacTH nepepa6oTc  xnonca.
B gejiax ynponeHHi MexaHH3MOB peaamJ13a  XJIOIKOBOri npOXTIWH H
CO3,aHHA paBBBix yc2IOBii IIpH ee peaJM3aIHH Ha 3KCIIOpT H BHYTpH pecriy6nH
56m IpEHHATo pia HOCTaHOB3ieHH:
fIocTaHoBjieHHe rIpaBHTemcTBa Pecny6mum TazcmxHcTaH OT 2 ceHTI6pq
1997 roaa X2 400 <0 mepax nio yripoEaeBio mexaBmRma peaJImaium xj1oriKOBOEI
npOXyKM>);  lIocTaHoBJIeHHe  IpaBHTeJmcTBa Pecny6mmx  TaxDKCTaH
(<O  zaaMHellmeM   COBepmeHCTBOBamHH  nopsAa  pea32aixm    XjionKOBoik
npoVyKiD>; flocTaHoBaeHHe fIpaBwrejmcTBa Pecny6m=  TaIPKHKHCTaH OT
4 4eBpafsf  1997 roaa 3a N 59 <<06 opraHr3aiiHH PeCny6=maHcKor XnOmcOBOR1
6Hpxu>.
(a)  fHppu2aauoHHaA  cucmeua  -   IojiHTHKa  HpaBHTejmcTBa  no
3rexTHBHOMy H UeJiecoo6pa3HoIy iC4croJir3OBaHmO BOaR, BOCCTaHOBiTeH1O
MexaHH3Ma c6opa H ormaTmI 3a HC1OJT3OBaHRe BogJI, a TaKxce co03aHHe
Accoi.ai.UI BoaonorJT3OBaTejie.
CeJImcKoe XO3AIICTBO  B  TailHICTaHe 3aBHCHT  OT HippHraim, B
HeKOTOpbIX paROHax noTpe6iSeTcH MHOrO 3HeprHH  H3-3a Heo6xOUIMOCTcT  B
riogyreMe BOaBI HacocaMa. B 6o0biHcTBe cmiyqaeB YpOBeib BOZ6I B KaHaiiaX
HHKe, 'IeM YPOBeBH  3eMJII, B CBI3H C 3THM IUIS roaema BOA)  B OCHoBHbie
KaHami Heo6xoEmi Kpynmie Hacocimie cTaHiI.  4cTopHqecKH  rioaaqa
3jieKTpo3HeprHH, HCUoJIL3OBaHHe HacocoB, pa6OTa Bceg cHcTeMi H peMoHT ee
6mn ni.owy   6ecrImaTmaIMm. OXHaKo CTHOBHCi  o'eBiBBIM,  rTO ce.JTcicoe
XO33LICTBO ripeBmuiaeT HOPMI HCIIOJTb3OBaHHA BOgM, oco6eHHo 3TO KacaeTCA
3eMeJ,  OPOmaeMiX  HaCOCHLIM   CTaHuHImH.  OCHOBHoe  060pygOBaHHe
HppiraiinoHHOi CHCTeMLI BO MHOriX X0331ECTBaX yXy,T=OCEB .0 Toro ypOBHA,
YTo  iozwaqa  BO,4h1  ocymecTBjLAeTcA  c  6oimunnm  ae4rrToM, MeCTrMH
BoAoo6ecnetIeHHocTL  cocTaBJiSeT  50  %  H  MeHee. B  HacTosee  Bpeom3
ilpaBrTeJThcTBo Haqajio pecopMHpoBaHHe HppHrailoHHoro ceKTopa, BBeeRHO
rmaTHoe Bo,lonoJTh3oBaHHe, npHiAT BoHii KogeKc. HgeT ripoxxecc 1oXqroTOBKH
110 C03,aazHo AccoiUIaLtHH Bo011ono0Jr3oBaTeIiei4, BegyTcS pa6oTm c 4epMepamH
B HacToee Bpems, rxeHi Ha xzenapoMReprmo cy6cHxtpyloTcl rocygapcTBoM. ,;
ceJMcKoXo30mcBeHEoro ceKapa ycTBHoaBJIeEr caea3wone rgeHOi:
a) B nieiw opomenma 2,5 py6n1oB.
6) B p    nesi 1,35 ieroa.
-80-



5
no yBeJImeHEno pa3mepa orLTIaTrI 3a HCrIOJT30BaHHe BOIZhI  I  nOKpqmxa
paCXOaOB ri0 3KCmyaTaum U peMoHTy HppHraiiHoHHoH CeTH. flpaBmTejmcTBo
HageeTCA, wro BceMipImT BaHK H pyre gOHOpbI nogepKaT cTpaHy:
(a)  B  flpoBeaeHH   TriaTeje6Horo  3KoHoMRqecKoro  HcciiegoBaHHA
iienecoo6pa3HocT   Hcinojb3oBaHRA  CHCTeM:I BICOKOi  iiogatm  BO,BI, trrO
BKjm1OaeT noxIaqy BO)TI Ha BbICOTy, ilpeBuaiouiyo 150  MeTpOB (rge mweerCi
5-7 KaCKagOB) - B oco6eHoCTm B MecTax, rxe xexiaHe BbipaumBaEOT TOJTKO
o,lH ypowKar xoriKa  03HMYO nmeuiHgy - cneiye)   ~mT iLJS TaSKo  MeCTi0cTH
yCTaHaBJ1BaTh OnIaTy 3a HCIIOJh3OBaHxe 3eKTpo3Hepr no Kypcy pTiHKa;
(6) B BOCCTaHOBjieHHH HaCoCHbix CTTaHuji, B IIPOBeaeHHR HppHralHOHaHix
H i,peHaxcHIX pa6oT, KOTOpbIe y)Ke HaIaTbi no m HaTII0Be BceMHpHoro BaHKa;
(B) B C03aaHHH 1HCTHTYUHOHaiJTHOrO MexaHH3Ma 11o onpeaeneBauo HOPM
HCHOJIh3OBagH BOUM,Iy yCTaHOBj1eHmO pa3mepa onJaTIa  3a HCIIOJ3oBaeHH BoQlTh 1
c6opa rmIIami 3a HC1OJM3OBaHHe BOIUI ,2 IioKpbITr  paCXOXOB i1o 3KCnRyaTaIlm
H Ha peMOHT;
r) B C03,aaHHH i1JOTHLiX yTaCTKOB rio HOBbIM 34MeKTHBH1Lim cnoco6aM
opomIeHmI (KaneamHoe, mmXpOaO=eBaH e  T.R.) f03BOMu0 e B 1,5-2,0 pa3a
yBeiiHMHTh ypo)KaAHocTh CejibCKOX03AfiCTBeHHTX  KyjiTyp CO 3HalmTeJTHOA
3KOHoMHeH. Bce 3TE Mep1SI AB3ISOTCS 3HaxIHmIMH, TaK KaK rioMoryT CymeCTBeHHO
yBeJIwmm ypowKafmoc CeerBCKOX033HHcTBeHHuIx KyjibTyp.
(6)    Co3baHue ycmoiqueoeo  mexaHuU3ma  Kpe6umo6auuq celbclcou
meCmHoCmu - HlojiTHKa FJpaBHTeJmc-a HanpaBsieHa Ha C03,aaHHe AcconHaga
rio KpeJtHTOBaHBIIO H c6epe)KCeHMM B CeJIhCKo01 MeCTHOCTH H pa3pa6oTKoft
perympyiomero MexaHH3Ma.
OCHOBHOA CJIO)KHOCTbIO  B pa3BHTHH  cejrbCKoio  MecTHoCTH  5IiBeTcS1
OTcyTcTBHe  npmeMjleMoro  MexaHI3Ma   zHHaHcHpoBai. B  3TOrl CBI3H
HaIuIOHaJIHBiIM BaHKOM TaacmccTaaa apmurro pemeHie (B s3Bape 1999 roga),
HIo3BolmOee  y,4pewzaT   cemicKe  Accotgai   iio  KxpemBTaBHHIo  H
c6epeAceHmm.    HpIIHBaTH3xpOBaH     ArpoHHBeCT6aHK,    ocyuecTBJmnercS
pecTpyKCTypH3aA Taaxumc6ep6aHKa. MLI 6jiarogapExi BceM3vpHoMy BalKy 3a
Co,aefICTBRe B ytpe=e)H     TaKHx AccouHaivdi. HpaBsrreJmcTBo Pecny6xi4
TagKHKCTaH iioJIaraer, qTo Bcemapaur IaH  a rpyrae aOHOphI rrpogoiKaT
CogerlCTBe cTpaHe B qpRo6peTem meHapoH     ororra rp  c((3AaHHH
TaKoro poiLa MexaHH3Ma KpeRTOBaHa ceJIBcKoEI MecTHocTH.
Ie,blo Hpa6umembcmea A&,iemcx pas6umue KoHKypenmHocnoco6Hozo
cejibcKoxo3AufcmeHeio2o   ceKmopa,   opuenmupo6alMoZO   Ha   pbLHO'iyble
omnou4eHUA.
-81-



6
3TM  IIHCcMoM  HpaBrTeJBCTBO  noTBepaeT  CBOH  pemeHa  no
ycxopeHmo HpoBe,aeim  pe4opM B arpapHom cerTope, B -qaCTHoCTIi, B o6nacTm
IIpmBaTm3aHII Ce3JCKOX03S&ICTBeHHEiX ripewlrIpHITHH H X03IIHCTB, C03,aamm
KoHKypeHToCrioco6HoH     cpe,bI      xI       npegocTaBneHms       yciiyr
cenjbCKoX03MHcTBeHHoMy ceKTopy, C03aaeHHH YCJIOBHR   iJ6epaJmsaiu  IeH F
ToproBTIH, BBeaeHm  MexaHH3Ma no oripeaejreHmo Heo6xoxD&rax 3aTpaT Ha
Pa3BRTHe H HCrIOJT3OBaHHe BO,4BLIX peCypCOB, CO3,aaRi AccoLuiauiiA  no
ipeHToBaHmo H c6epe)KeHHoM, a TaKioe pa3pa6oTKM Heo6xozHMbIX PYKOBO9CTB
H MeXaHH3Ma peryJIHpoBaHiA #HaHCOBOR IIOMOiH. HamH 6BLuTa co3gaHa
KomnccHA  iio peopraHmnaiu    cenjihCKOXo3SIRcTBeHImix npegnpHx      (YKa3
Ilpe3feHTa Peciiy6mmH Ta=HKHCTaH 3a XN  522), B EIOHe 1998 roga COCTaB
Komucci iiepecmoTpeH 1H BHOBb yTBepwaeH. B ee COCTaB BXOaUT: IHpeacegaTeJm
- HpeMBep-MmcTp Peciy6mrnH TaHKHCTaH 5.H. A3rMOB; 3aMecTrTeJi  -
3aMecTHTeim npemIep--MmHCTpa - Aw.M. MaHcypOB; --meHbI KomHccim:
FoccoBeTHnhK no 3KOHOMBIe - HaIaJIHIK ynpaBjieHNA 3KOHOMrH B.. a6aeB;
MHHCTip  cemCKoro  XO35iHCTBa  11sDD.  Ka6HIpOB;  MHHHCTP    HHaHCOB
A.M. My3a44apOB; MHHHCTP 3KOHOMHKH H BHeiiHX 3KOHOMHIeCKHX CBS3efi
)J. MCMOHOB; fIpegcezaTe.m FOCKOMMYleCTBa Pecny6riHm  TazpKHRcTaH -
M.C.  P;aBJIaTOB;  MzHcTp   TOCTHiHH   Pecny6nHri   TaxricTaH   -
Ul.M. 14cMaiUOB; IlpeaceaaTeJb HaiIHOHajnHoro BaHKa TagCTaHa  -
M.M. AnmMapgOHOB; flpeAceqaTeJm  KoMHTeTa IIo 3eMemHBIm PecypcaM  EI
3eMjieycrpoicTBy Pecriy6mum TaaXcHKHCTaH - C.X. Xa4pyjinoeB; gHpeKTop
LeHTpa rio noagepKKe IIPHBaTH3ma  XO3CTB - T. OcToHaeB.
3Ta KomHccHA 6.uia co3gaHa c ujeTIo ocyiuecTBjieHT pe4OpM B CTPaHe.
Bce 3TH pacCMoTpeHKIe HaapaBjieHHA 6yayT ocyigecTBnmcs  iepe3
flpoeKT IIO rIozLep)KKH upEIBaTH3RpOBamHHbIx X033icTB, ipeICTaBTeH 3Toro
ipoeKra  pHHMaiiH yxMacTHe B nieperoBopax B aripeIie. HaM XOTeJIoCb 6bI eme pa3
OCTaHOBHThCSA Ha HafleM pemeHHH yCKOpHTI npoBezeHHe pe4opM, Heo6xogHmibx
,Um  pa3BHTHI  ceCIICKOXO3AICTBeHHoro  ceKTopa,  opHeHTHpOBaHHorO  Ha
pbIHOt1IO 3KOHOMHKy, B COTpyxuHH4eCTBe Co BcempHliM BaHKoM H C xpyrmH
,AOHOPaMH IIOZLOTOBHTh nIporpaMMy pa3BHITH3 H yJIyxieHHA YCJIOBHl XH3HH
ieCTcTHMHjIHoHHorO HaceneHsA Ta,KIwCHCTaHa, 6onee 70% KOTOporO Hpo)KHBaeT
B Cej[CKOfA MeCTHOCTH.
3MOMaaH PaXMOHOB
rlpe3KaeHT Pecny6m*m TacKmicTaH
-82-



IBRD 30059
,TAN       6t'   6tWV  te                                                                                              TAJIKISTAN
I4.                                             FARM PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
'7,                                 ; N<, Tojohk ',;' >'             tTycshuoss  ra-  PROJECT RAIONS AND FARM  LOCATIONS
, >,  , 29'  (iwxow    .j       ASHT                                            PROJECT RAIONS                 .                ROADS
+:; z'  s vC  ,'UZBEKISTAN  a  PROJECT FARMS (located to district only)  --a---RAILROADS
*     PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                 --         RURAL DISTRICTS
UZBEKISTAN         ZAFAROBO       D 8          Khrndo7 -< ,t KONIBODOM                           *               SELECTED CITIES                           =     AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARIES
*oDzhl: kA~ Imae ; ,    - .       N           .          . .......  ,,j . - t J e > .....0 AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTERS'  =.  OBLAST BOUNDARIES-C
tDnhdsk  -~~~~~~-r   r-~~~  1' ~~~ ~~0-ss  BA                        ~~~~OBLAST CENTERS                      --.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
, " Rt             PROLTAR             'r L            '                           NATIONAL CAPITALAel dosissrai d in  s  unynr r nderdirnut
SHAHRISTON    3    s                         <sfrle<                                                                              'An obloss ir nnnndlywhe itsnonmedifferte shmatfindninisrniesr
/    f.e,   ',.8i.'.'v:v) ;                                            ,         5tt g / Ca,  f,  ;.,., ,_ .: , ;  ........... V.'.:'  KYRGYZREP..  72  T.Oh, 7AL
gPENJzhIKrENT   s  _, Ay                       MATCH                                  O                         --,-               -
|ENAKEFIT )  4~ts%,s=5C>~ <  -  t,   I,e,           )  ;                                   -_,                                                                            CHINA
N                   1HARM                             5 A                       0%.)                                 41
T)  t.j            --a--n'           r*n>  /                                CoO}N\    t    t % 1            'k                                   ii:
S7                                                                                                                                      -
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~      ~ ~~~-t  HA&A\  I  ,  .      ._   ,                                          >  /1  -  rK7KSTN...........
VAR  B    KOFARN/HO~N                                                     'OO A(D  -
SAHh        -  *' pd dAVILDARA
Ft~~ ~~~~~~ h' Mtap \io Unn#                                                                                   0                     Krsm    ,          .D        -    ZSKSA 
denomJnolitNNOne /m In ,f                                                                                                                                      >                 _>/_
TUR                                 D lmpd s                                                           i 4l                                     X     TR9iEIN1             ~       5v5KRY  E
7F40a00   -~    5te4       KA~AYHUIMB
(  ~~~~        N~~OVA/ING            C                                    9 
TnDesoj  -O  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>                        '~~~~~~~ ~VANC .t/-                        5                                                    /
ihJ wsdd   r    imIM U.RGAB
or ~        ~         ~         ~          O K an                                                   >0oehn                                             '            .1 -   BADAKHSHANG/ -.
AN                                                     _                                ISOF Ih'AN                 }    - AEGHANISTAN   1_-~ mv        MAYRSA
IKULYABI~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~   ~-h    GORNO-Mao
SHIANRTUZiI,`   f Sv                n-be                   1(1                                                          
N,4                          FAR IJIL C                                                            SHUCGNAN
Y0~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~ ~Shugnot 
Y AN
T. Knd      ~
.111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2<~~~~0k.~1
AFGHANISTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                               AAKSA
of Se Wa d as>T'he                                                                                                                                   I       A     UZBEKISTAN
Ode, ihtn,-o, dta                                                                                                                                        TURKMENISTAN                       KYRGYZOY REP,
I          I          I                    10i-                                PAKISTANI 
0050 at nay e,sesy.                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~      ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISLAMIC REP   
72,            OF IRAN  ~~~~~~~~~~~> t,5~~                     CHINA
ssasnrpnsnenfssst                                      '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~                            OFl~~~~~N     I~~
tnsudadeo  At                                  /                                                                /       AFGHANISTAN      -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY 9



