Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2861 TJ
                    Development Credit Agreement
         (Institution Building Technical Assistance Project)
                               between
                       REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated May 20, 1996
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2861 TJ
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
Page  2
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
            Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
            the United Nations."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
      (b)   "NBT" means the National Bank of Tajikistan (the Central Bank)
of the Borrower;
      (c)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within
the Prime Minister's Office of the Borrower pursuant to Governmental
Protocol No. 21-1 (33), dated December 12, 1995;
      (d)   "SPC" means the State Committee of the Republic of Tajikistan
for the administration of State Property, established by Presidential
Decree on January 21, 1991; and
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank or the
NBT on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be
set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate
set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15,
2006 and ending January 15, 2036.  Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of
the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the PIU with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                  support the related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Effective Date; Termination
Page  5
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the deputy
director of the PIU shall have been appointed under terms of reference
and with qualification and experience satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            3 Kuibyshev Street
            Dushanbe, 734025
            Republic of Tajikistan
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                  INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
                  By /s/ Rashid Alimov
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
Page  6
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated          % of
                            Expressed in       Expenditures
   Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods                     200,000         100% of foreign
                                              expenditures,
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures (ex-
                                              factory cost) and
                                              75% of local
                                              expenditures for
                                              other items
                                              procured locally
(2) Consultants'            3,200,000         100%
    services
                            _________
    TOTAL                   3,400,000
                            =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of  expenditure for expenditures for:
(a) goods under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; and (b)
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each for the employment of
consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent each for the employment of
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's
institutional capacity to sustain reforms in the privatization and
banking sectors.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part  A:    Technical Assistance for Privatization
1.    Provision of technical assistance to SPC to strengthen its capacity
in the following areas:
      (i)   privatization of small enterprises;
      (ii)  privatization of medium and large enterprises;
      (iii) design and implementation of mass privatization; and
Page  7
      (iv)  public information for privatization.
2.    Provision of technical assistance to MOA to:
      (i)   design and implement a strategy for demonopolizing the state
            cotton marketing entity and its ginneries; and
      (ii)  prepare and implement a farm restructuring program.
Part B:     Technical Assistance to the Financial Sector
      Provision of technical assistance to NBT and to other banks in the
following areas:
      (i)   legal framework development;
      (ii)  accounting and auditing procedures;
      (iii) audit reporting;
      (iv)  prudential regulation; and
      (v)   payment systems.
                              *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Shopping
      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to the first two contracts procured under Part B of
this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Page  8
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about February 28,
1998 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)   review with the Association, by March 31, 1998 or such later
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the
matter.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain the PIU with powers, functions and
adequate staffing satisfactory to the Association.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Page  9
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of $500,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                  into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                  of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All
                  such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
                  the Credit Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                  shall have been justified by said documents and other
                  evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account; or
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
Page  10
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
