Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3240 TJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Farm Privatization Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 21, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3240 TJ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) the Association has received the letter, dated May 12, 1999, from the 
Borrower, describing the Borrower’s objectives and policies in the agricultural 
sector; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12. “Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and “Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such 
countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which 
is not a Participating Country or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, 
if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and TSB pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(b)
“Eligible Farm” means a private farm established by a former member or 
former members of Participating Farms, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth 
in Part B of Section II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“Eligible SCA” means a Savings and Credit Association established under 
the Borrower’s legislation in the territory of the Participating Rayons, which meets 
the eligibility criteria set forth in Part B of Section III of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; 
(d)
“Grant” means a grant provided or proposed to be provided by TSB to an 
Eligible Farm under Part C (1) of the Project; 
(e)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between TBS 
acting on behalf of Borrower and Eligible Farm pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) (i) of 
this Agreement; 
(f)
“MOA” means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower; 
(g)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower; 
(h)
“MOJ” means the Ministry of Justice of the Borrower; 
(i)
“MWR” means the Ministry of Water Resources of the Borrower; 
(j)
“NBT” means the National Bank of the Borrower; 
(k)
“Participating Farms” means farms listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the 
Association may agree upon from time to time; 
(l)
“Participating Rayons” means rayons listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the 
Association may agree upon from time to time; 
(m)
“PIU” means Project Implementation Unit established in each of the 
Participating Rayons; 
(n)
“PMU” means Project Management Unit established by the Borrower for 
Page  3
overall coordination and management of the Project; 
(o)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 19, 1998 and September 8, 1998 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(r)
“Project Steering Committee” means the Committee established by the 
Borrower by the Decree of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan No. 216 dated 
July 27, 1998; 
(s)
“SLC” means the State Land Committee of the Borrower; 
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(u)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by TSB to an Eligible 
SCA under Part C (3) of the Project; 
(v)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between TBS acting on behalf of Borrower and Eligible SCA pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) 
(ii) of this Agreement;  
(w)
“TSB” means State Savings Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan established 
by the Decree of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan No. 1123 dated November 
26, 1998; and
(x)
“WUA” means Water Users’ Association created pursuant to Article 22 of 
Water Code of the Republic of Tajikistan. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 30, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  4
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2009 and ending February 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) Parts A, B, C (2), and D of the Project through ministries and agencies, set 
forth in the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) Parts C (1) and C (3) of 
the Project through TSB, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural, engineering, accounting, and 
environmental standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
For the purposes of implementation of Part C (2) of the Project PMU shall 
contract a qualified non-governmental organization, acceptable to the Association with 
an adequate experience and a sound track record in establishing of successful 
community-based savings and credit associations in rural areas. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Parts C (1) and C (3) of the 
Project, the Borrower shall enter into an Agency Agreement with TSB under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association including, without limitation, the 
Procedures, Eligibility Criteria, and Terms and Conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, and through TSB:
(i)
provide to each Eligible Farm, out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated 
from time to time to Category (4) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, grants 
under Grant Agreements to be entered into 
between TSB acting on 
behalf of the Borrower and Eligible Farms under terms 
and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, without 
limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Part C of Section II of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(ii)
make available to each eligible SCA the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from 
time to time to Category (5) of the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, for the purpose of 
on-lending to eligible farms, under 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be 
entered into between TSB, acting on behalf of 
the Borrower, and Eligible 
SCA, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which 
shall include, without limitation, the terms and conditions 
set 
forth in Part C of Section III of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(iii)
cause Eligible Farms and Eligible SCAs to perform in accordance 
with the 
provisions of the respective Grant Agreement or 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all 
the obligations set forth therein.
(b)
The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall cause PMU to review applications for Grants and Sub-loans in 
accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause TSB to exercise its rights in relation to the 
Sub-loans and Grants in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the 
Association and the Borrower; (ii) comply with the obligations set forth in the Agency 
Agreement Grant Agreements and Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and (iii) achieve the 
purposes of Parts C (1) and C (3) of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
Page  6
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through PMU, shall establish and at all 
times maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower, acting through PMU, shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
Page  7
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Agency Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to achieve the objectives of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PMU or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely: any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
an external auditor, acceptable to the Association, has been appointed to 
carry out the audit of the Project Preparation Advance; 
(b)
the Project Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
has been opened with a total deposit in TJRs equivalent to $50,000 (fifty thousand 
dollars); 
(c)
the Agency Agreement has been executed on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(d)
financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been installed and is operational in a form and substance satisfactory 
Page  8
to the Association; and 
(e)
development in PMU of a procurement management system, satisfactory to 
the Association. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Agency Agreement has 
been duly authorized and executed by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and 
TSB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
3 Akademikov Radzabovykh Street,
Dushanbe, 734025
Republic of Tajikistan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Rashid Alimov 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ Ishrat Husain 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
  3,340,000
85%
(2)
Goods
  2,480,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
  2,400,000
100%
services and training
(4)
Grants under Part C(1) 2,730,000
100%
of the Project
(5)
Subloans under
    790,000
100%
Part C (3) of the
Project
(6)
Incremental 
  1,710,000
90% through September 30, 2000
operating costs
85% through September 30, 2001
80% through September 30, 2003
75% thereafter
(7)
Refunding of
    450,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   900,000
 _________
TOTAL
14,800,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means operating expenses of PMU, 
PIUs, MOA, MWR, and SLC and their offices in the Participating Rayons which would not 
have been incurred absent the Project including, but without limitation, staff 
salaries, expenses in respect of office accommodation, equipment and supplies, 
transportation and communication costs and other administrative expenses. 
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) works under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent each; (iii) services under contracts with consultant firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services under contracts with 
individual consultants costing $25,000 equivalent or less each; (v) training; (vi) 
grants under Part C (1) of the Project; (vii) sub-loans under Part C (3) of the 
Project; and (viii) incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:  
(i)
develop procedures and institutional mechanisms at the state level 
and in the 
Participating Rayons for fair, secure and equitable transfer 
of land and other 
farm assets to private individuals or groups; 
(ii)
test and implement these procedures in the Participating Farms in 
order to 
provide representative models which could serve as a 
basis for wider 
geographical replicability; and 
(iii)
create sustainable private family farming units and provide them 
with the 
enabling conditions to operate independently in a 
market economy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Farm Restructuring Services
(1)
Strengthening the capacity of SLC and its offices in Participating Rayons 
through provision of technical assistance, training, office equipment, survey, mapping 
and land registration equipment, vehicles, and financing of incremental operating 
costs to enable them to undertake land surveying and mapping, to register land parcels 
and to issue land use rights certificates.
(2)
Strengthening MOA’s capacity to provide information and advisory services to 
private farmers through providing technical assistance, training, vehicles, office and 
video equipment, advisory services and information for development of private 
extension services over a period of time.
(3)
Provision of technical assistance, seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, machinery and 
equipment to conduct in a number of representative Participating Farms field 
demonstrations of appropriate agricultural technologies.
Part B: 
Rehabilitation of Critical Main and Field Level Irrigation and Drainage 
Works
(1)
Carrying out of the following irrigation and water supply rehabilitation works 
in Participating Rayons:
(i)
repair or replacement of water control and water turnout gates;
(ii)
desilting of main irrigation canals and drainage collectors;
(iii)
repair or replacement of existing weirs and flumes and 
installation of water 
measurement devices; and
(iv)
introduction of drip and sprinkler irrigation systems as 
Page  11
demonstrations in 
selected areas.
(2)
Provision of technical assistance, training and office equipment for the 
establishment in Participating Rayons of WUAs to operate and manage field level 
irrigation and drainage systems.
Part C:
One-time Grants and Establishment of Savings and Credit Associations 
(1)
Provision of one-time grants to Eligible Farms to enable them to obtain a 
minimal amount of the most critical agricultural inputs to increase crop and/or animal 
productivity as soon as possible. 
(2)
Provision of technical assistance and training for the establishment of SCAs in 
the Participating Rayons. 
(3)
Provision of a credit line to TSB for the purpose of on-lending to Eligible SCAs 
in the Participating Rayons.
Part D:
Project Management and Implementation
Support for the establishment and operations of the PMU and of PIUs in each of 
the Participating Rayons through rehabilitation of offices, provision of technical 
assistance, training, vehicles, office equipment, and financing of incremental 
operating costs.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
Annex to Schedule 2 
Participating Rayons and Participating Farms
Oblast/Area
Rayons Farms
1. Khatlon
1. Kolkhozabad
2.Yavan
(i) Guliston and  
(ii) Ittifaq
(i) Firdauzi and  
(ii)Sharif Rakhmanov 
2. Leninabad1. 
Macha
2. Zafarabad
(i) Wafo, and 
(ii) Ch. Ergaschev
(i) Kanz
3. Rayons under Republican Subordination (RRS)  
1.Shaharinau
2. Leninisky
(i) Hakiqat and  
(ii) Leningrad
(i) Varzob
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Page  12
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2. 
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works under Part B of the Project shall 
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each, and 
contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $173,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $220,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Page  13
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more and to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for monitoring and evaluation of the Project activities and for Project 
Page  14
audit estimated to cost less than $286,000 equivalent in aggregate may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for demonstration and training extension estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts A (1) and B (1) of the Project may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for procurement and accounts management under Part D of the Project for 
tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance and training estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance and training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
Page  15
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by January 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Annex to Schedule 4 
Agencies Responsible for Execution of the Project Part of the Project
Responsible Agency Part A (1)
PMU and SLC in 
coordination with MOJ Parts A (2) and A (3)
PMU 
and MOA Part B
PMU and MWR Part C (1) and Part C (3) 
MOF through TSB in 
coordination with PMU
Part C (2)
MOA, NBT and PMU 
Part D
Project Steering Committee,  
PMU and PIUs
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  16
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
Page  17
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Procedures for, Eligibility Criteria, Terms and 
Conditions of Grants and Sub-loans
Section I:
Agency Agreement
Agency Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and TSB for the purpose 
of Parts C (1) and C (3) of the Project shall include, inter alia, the following terms 
and conditions: 
1.
The Borrower shall make available to TSB the proceeds of the Credit in Tajik 
Rubles allocated from time to time to Categories (4) and (5) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.
TSB shall transfer to the Borrower without delay, but in any case not later than 
within 10 working days, any interest or principal amount of a Sub-loan, received from 
an Eligible SCA under a Sub-loan agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall pay to TSB:
(a)
a service fee at the rate of three percent (3%) of the total amount of 
grants processed and deposited in the Eligible Farms accounts on a monthly basis; and 
(b)
a service fee at the rate of one percent (1%) of the total amount of 
Sub-loans provided to the Eligible SCAs and additional one percent (1%) out of the 
total amount of the principal and interest received from Eligible SCAs on an arrears 
basis under Sub-loan Agreements. 
4.
TSB shall engage an adequate number of qualified staff to ensure that Grants and 
Sub-loans will be processed with due diligence and efficiency. 
5.
TSB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition, in accordance with acceptable to the Association sound accounting 
practices. 
6.
TSB shall furnish to PMU, as soon as available, but in any case, not later than 
two months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of financial statements 
and accounts for this period in such scope and detail as the Association or PMU shall 
have reasonably requested.  
7.
The terms and conditions of the Agency Agreement will be reviewed by the 
Borrower and TSB in June 2000 and respective modifications and amendments thereto will 
be introduced if necessary.
Section II.
Part C (1) of the Project
Part A:
Procedures 
1.
An application for a grant in a form satisfactory to the Association and 
Page  18
containing all necessary information shall be submitted through the PIU of the 
respective Participating Rayon to PMU. 
2.
PMU shall review an application, ensure compliance with the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the following Part B of this Section II, evaluate the amount of the grant 
to be provided, and submit the list of Eligible Farms in each of the Participating 
Rayons with its recommendations to the Project Steering Committee for approval. 
3.
Following the approval by the Project Steering Committee of the list of Eligible 
Farms, TSB acting on behalf of the Borrower shall enter into a Grant Agreement with 
each Eligible Farm containing, without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth 
in the following Part C of this Section II.
Part B: 
Eligibility Criteria
Grants under Part C (1) of the Project shall be provided only to a private farm 
established by a former member or former members of Participating Farms which:
(a)
possesses a valid land use right certificate issued by SLC;
(b)
has an account in TSB;
(c)
is a member of WUA and has access to assured and timely supply of water 
for agricultural activities; and
(d)
is engaged in agricultural activity as the main source of income.
Part C:
Terms and Conditions of Grant Agreements 
1.
A grant to each Eligible Farm will be provided in the currency of the Borrower 
and will be limited to the equivalent of $300 per hectare of arable land possessed by 
the Eligible Farm but not more than equivalent of $600 for each Eligible Farm. 
2.
The amount of the grant shall be used for productive income generating 
agricultural activities in accordance with sound agricultural and environmental 
standards. 
Section III.
Part C (3) of the Project
Part A:
Procedures 
1.
An application for a Sub-loan in a form satisfactory to the Association and 
containing all necessary information shall be submitted to PMU.
2.
PMU, with the assistance of a qualified non-governmental organization, 
acceptable to the Association to be contracted for the purposes of Part C (2) of the 
Project, shall review the application and ensure its compliance with the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the following Part B of this Section III.
3.
Each application for a Sub-loan is subject to approval by the Project Steering 
Committee under recommendation of PMU.
4.
Following the approval of the proposed Sub-loan, TSB acting on behalf of the 
Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each of Eligible SCAs which 
shall contain, without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in Part C of 
this Section III.
Part B:
Eligibility Criteria
Sub-loans under Part C (3) of the Project shall be made to SCAs established in 
the territory of the Participating Rayons which: 
(a)
are registered by NBT in accordance with the Regulations of NBT No. 83 
dated January 26, 1999; 
(b)
maintain their accounting records according to established standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
Page  19
(c)
have received training acceptable to the Association; and 
(d)
are in compliance with prudential rules established by NBT for SCAs 
activities.
Part C:
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loan Agreements
1.
A Sub-loan to each Eligible SCA shall be made in the currency of Borrower in the 
amount not more then equivalent of $200,000 of which: 
(a)
an amount of up to $150,000 equivalent can be allocated for the 
subsequent on-lending to the members of Eligible SCAs for productive purposes; and 
(b)
an amount of up to $50,000 can be provided to each of the Eligible SCAs 
as start up capital. 
2.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be repaid by an Eligible SCA to TSB 
in Tajik Rubles in equal semi-annual installments over ten (10) years including a 
grace period of one (1) year. 
3.
Each Sub-loan shall be charged at an interest rate which shall represent the 
prevailing NBT discount rate.
