Page  1
March 16, 1998
His Excellency Yahyo Azimov
The Prime Minister
Republic of Tajikistan
Re:
Japanese Grant for Farm Privatization Support Project
Grant Number TF025557                                                  
Your Excellency :
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the 
Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred thousand 
United States Dollars ($400,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Tajikistan (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the 
Association carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I. Husain
Country Director for Azerbaijan,
Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Aral Sea Unit
Europe and Central Asia
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Y. Azimov
Authorized Representative
Date: April 12, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant is to prepare the Farm Privatization Support Project.
1.2.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
(a) Farm Privatization Support Services: 
(i)
review the current status of agricultural reforms in the areas of 
land privatization and farm restructuring; agricultural prices and 
subsidies; privatization of principal agro-processing industries;  
water resources development; and  institutional reforms.
(ii) 
prepare proposals for setting up a land registration system, farm  
information and advisory services, water user’s association, 
credit delivery mechanisms for privatized farms; and institutional 
strengthening;
Page  2
(iii) identify a few selected farms willing to undergo the process of  
land privatization and restructuring; assess the existing crop and 
livestock activities and constraints,  identify critical 
irrigation and drainage works in need of  urgent rehabilitation, 
working capital, investment requirements, and make recommendations 
to enable the creation and sustain privatized farm units; and
(iv) 
prepare detailed project costs estimates for each sub-component, 
broken down by local and foreign cost component and by each 
project implementation year; suggest financing alternatives and 
implementation plan.
(b)  Community Development Program: 
(i) 
identify the target groups of the selected farms to be privatized; 
and  determine the scope, nature of the problem of the target 
groups; and develop the socio-economic profile of those living in 
the farms proposed for privatization; 
(ii) 
evaluate the privatization process to ensure that the procedures, 
guidelines and associated laws would result in equitable 
distribution of land and non-land assets and do not adversely 
affect the most vulnerable groups; and  make recommendations for 
improvements in the privatization process; and assess the status 
of the various types of social services being provided at present; 
and
(iii)
prepare suitable programs for the various categories of the 
vulnerable groups for possible financing by donors, indicating the 
organizational arrangements, functions and responsibilities of 
participating agencies and/or groups and resource requirements in 
terms of labor, equipment, materials and capital, recommend how 
Non-Governmental Organizations and local civic groups could be 
involved; and an action plan for the implementation of this 
component.
(c)  Study  Tour:  
Carry out a short study tour for five selected project team leaders in order to 
expose the said team leaders to various modern of project management, farm 
privatization and specialized technical aspects of the project.
(d) Equipment:
Purchase of equipment, consisting of computers, printers, fax machines, and 
other essential office supplies and equipment.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Association shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent necessary to permit the 
Association to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Association against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Association as a result of claims against the 
Association in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 1999.  After 
that date, the Association may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Association and shall be done according to the Association’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
Page  3
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Association in writing to terminate 
the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Association 
may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right 
of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the 
Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Association is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right 
to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Association pursuant to this 
Agreement.
