Report No. PIC1014
Project Name              Sri Lanka-Environmental Action 1 Project (@)
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Environment/Natural Resources Management
Project ID                LKPA10513
Borrower                  Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Transport, Environment and Women
Affairs (MTEWA) Colombo, Sri Lanka
Tel.: 94-1-508576 - Fax: 94-1-581017
Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and Forests
(MALF)
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Tel.: 94-1-694889 - Fax: 94-1-694889
Date this PID Prepared    January 29, 1997
Project Appraisal Date    October 10 - 30, 1995
Project Board Date        March 25, 1997
1.   Country & Sector Background:   Sri Lanka has a richly varied natural
resource base, a basic network of economic infrastructure and one of the
best set of social indicators in the developing world with adult
literacy of aost 90t and the demographic transition virtually complete.
With these assets, Sri Lanka has the potential to match the economic
performance of the newly industrializing East Asian Countries. In 1989,
the government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) reformed its economic policies.
These reforms have led to a significant improvement in economic
performance, a surge in private sector investment and rapid growth in
labor-intensive manufactured exports. As industrialization and tourism
have moved forward, it is important that Sri Lanka takes measures to
ensure that further growth would not be gained at the expense of the
environment.
The major environmental challenges that Sri Lanka faces include land
degradation, deforestation, water pollution, coastal erosion, and
growing urban and industrial pollution. Many factors contribute to the
country's environmental challenges, but especially institutional and
policy failures as well as inadequate funding. To deal with these
environmental challenges, GOSL has taken some initial steps. On the
institutional front, it established the Central Environment Authority
(CEA). It also established in 1990 the Environment Division (ED) within
the Ministry of Transport, Environment & Women Affairs (MTEWA) as the
local entity for environmental policy, a role yet to be effectively
assumed. Sri Lanka was also one of the first developing countries to
prepare, with IDA assistance, a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP
1992-96). The NEAP was updated in 1994 (NEAP 1995-98). Finally, the
GOSL is now drafting a new legislation, more comprehensive in scope, in
order to place the environment even higher on the national agenda.
2.   Project Objectives:       The primary objective of the proposed
project is to assist GOSL in strengthening the institutional and policy



framework for environmental management within which the Bank and other
donors would provide assistance for improved environmental management.
In particular, the project would: (i) support the government's strategy
of restructuring MTEWA's ED and strengthening of CEA to better carry
out its analytical, monitoring and enforcement responsibilities; (ii)
support ongoing efforts to integrate environmental considerations in
the overall development planning process; and (iii) help GOSL take
immediate remedial measures to reverse the trend of environmental
degradation through pilot programs involving participatory approaches
to environmental management.
3.   Project Description:      The project  would comprise four major
components: (a) Institutional Strengthening providing for (i)
restructuring ED within MTEWA to allow it to play a central role in
environmental policy, planning, and coordination at the national level;
(ii) restructuring and strengthening CEA through establishment of a
staff development program, enhancement of the Industrial Licensing and
Inspection Program, development of environmental codes of practice for
small industries, improvement of capacity for Environmental Impact
Assessment, and strengthening of the environmental information system;
(iii) provision of office and technical facilities to accommodate both
ED and CEA; providing incremental staff, training, consultancy services,
civil works, and equipment; and (iv) a policy subcomponent including a
policy letter and a policy action plan that would broadly define legal,
institutional, and policy changes that are required for sound
environmental management. The policy subcomponent would also include
studies of the linkages between sector and economy-wide policies and the
environment. In addition, this subcomponent would support an annual
review of the environmental implications of the Public Investment
Program (PIP); (b) A Community Environmental Initiatives Facility
(CEIF) would be set up to finance well-planned environmental activities
at the grass-roots level within the priority NEAP/PIP sectors and in
which other donors could also participate. CEIF aims at involving
communities through participatory methods in implementing demonstration
activities, providing facilities to train local communities in
participatory work in the field of environment and conservation. CEIF
would provide a mechanism for pooling resources and is a vehicle for
private sector and NGO participation and for decentralizing
environmental activities; and (c) Selected pilot activities in land
management, which are currently severely underfunded. This component
aims at minimizing the extent of land degradation in pilot areas with
community participation, thereby increasing agricultural productivity as
well as reducing the risk of erosion and its associated on-farm and off-
farm impacts.
4.   Implementation:      MTEWA would be responsible for overall
coordination of project implementation and would be IDA's main contact
regarding implementation. MTEWA would have principal responsibility for
the institutional component including the policy subcomponent (in
close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, Planning, Ethnic
Affairs and National Integration. The Ministry of Agriculture, Land and
Forests would be responsible for the pilot land management component.
NGOs and communities would also play an important part in the planning
and implementation of the land management component and CEIF. A Steering
Committee headed by the Secretary, MTEWA, would meet once every three
- 2 -



months to ensure coordinated implementation of project activities. The
inter-sectoral nature of many environmental concerns and the diverse
information required for effective management mean, inevitably, that
several agencies have to be involved in the steering of overall
environmental policy work, including this project. The Committee on
Integrating Environment and Development Policy, chaired by the
Secretary, MFPE&NI, as well as Secretary, MTEWA, would meet once a year
to review environment-related activities in the PIP, NEAP, Policy Action
Plan, and this project.
5.   Project Financing:   The total project cost over the four year
period (FY97-FY01) is estimated to be US$19.1 million. IDA, GOSL, and
the local communities would jointly finance the project. IDA would
provide a credit of US$13.0 million, local communities US$2.9 million,
all of which would be in labor, and GOSL the remaining US$3.2 million
including the financing of taxes. IDA's credit would finance 68t of
project costs, including 100t of foreign exchange costs and 70t of local
costs.
6.   Project Sustainability:   The only project component with a long-
term impact on GOSL's budget is the institutional strengthening
component. Some expenditures introduced by the project would become
part of GOSL's ongoing recurrent cost after project completion. In both
ED and CEA, the budgetary impact is significant with current
expenditures rising by 39 and 33w, respectively, from 1996 to the end of
the four year project. However, the incremental recurrent cost, in 1995
constant prices, by the end of the project is only 0.2w of MTEWA's
budgeted expenditures in 1995. The IDA credit would finance incremental
cost on a declining basis, and it is expected that the incremental cost
would be compensated by the overall gain in economic efficiency (e.g.,
through pollution abatement) due to the institutional strengthening
under the project. GOSL has also indicated a willingness to sustain the
ED and CEA expenditures and activities after completion of the
project.
7.   Poverty Category:    Yes.  The Project  would enhance the asset base
of poor communities in degraded areas.
8.   Environmental Aspects:    The project has been given a 'B'
classification. It is expected to have beneficial effects on the
environment. It would improve the management of environmental resources
by both the Government and the people, providing mechanisms for decision
making at the national, district and community levels.
9.   Program Objective Categories: The project would support the
following IDA objectives: (a) balancing environment protection with the
promotion of private sector-led growth; and (b) improving the health
and well being of the poor.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
-3 -



Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 4 -



