Document of
the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund
Report No. 15261-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
February 24, 1997
South Asia
Countrv Department 1
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 3 1, 1997)
Currency Unit-Sri Lankan Rupee (SLR)
US$ 1.0() = SLR 57.19
SLR 1 million = US$ 17.486
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Unit System
Metric Unit                                    British/US Equivalent
I centimeter (cm)                     =                0,39 inch
I meter (m)                           =                39.37 inches
i kilometer (km)                      =                0.62 mile
I hectare (ha)                        =                2.47 acres
I square kilometer (kr2)              =                0.386 square mile
I cubic meter (m3)                    =                35.31 cubic feet
I liter (1)                           =                0.264 gallon (USA)
I kilogram (kg)                       =                2.205 pounds
I metric ton (m ton)                  =                2.205 pounds
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director      Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief       Ridwan Ali
Staff:              Ivar Serejski



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB           -      Asian Development Bank
Al            -      Agricultural Instructors
CEA           -      Central Environmental Authority
CEIF          -      Community Environmental Initiatives Facility
CEIP          -      Colombo Environmental Improvement Project
CIEDP         -      Committee on Integrating Environment and Development Policy
CIP           -      Core Investment Program
DDG           -      Deputy Director General
DOA           -      Department of Agriculture
EA1P          -      Environmental Action 1 Project
ED            -      Environment Division
EPL           -      Environmental Licensing Scheme
EIA           -      Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR           -      Economic Rate of Return
FC-PCPS       -      Farmer Center - Problem Census, Problem Solving
GIS           -      Geographical Information System
GOSL          -      Government of Sri Lanka
ICB           -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA           -      International Development Association
-IMI          -      International Irrigation Management Institute
LSC           -      Land Steering Committee
LUPPD         -      Land Use Policy Planning Division
MAL&F         -      Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and Forestry
MCs           -      Microcatchments
MEIP          -      Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program
MEPA          -      Ministry of Environment and Parliamentary Affairs
MFP           -      Ministry of Finance and Planning
MTEWA         -      Ministry of Transport, Environment and Women's Affairs
NCB           -      National Competitive Bidding
NEAP          -      National Environmental Action Plan
NESC          -      National Environmental Steering Committee
NGOs          -      Non-Governmental Organizations
NICs          -      Newly Industrialized Countries
NORAD         -      Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NRMC          -      Natural Resources Management Center
NRM           -      Natural Resources Management
PAAs          -      Project Approving Agencies
PCs           -      Provincial Councils
PEA           -      Provincial Environmental Authority
PIP           -      Public Investment Program
PMIS          -      Project Management Information System
PPF           -      Project Preparation Facility
PSC           -      Provincial Steering Committee
SALT          -      Slopping Agricultural Land Technology
SC            -      Steering Committee
SCF           -      Standard Conversion Factor
SCOR          -      Shared Control and Natural Resources
SOE           -      Statement of Expenditures
TOR           -      Terms of Reference
UNCED         -      United Nations Conference for Environment & Development
UNDP/FAO    -        United Nations Development Program/Food and Agricultural Organization
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development






SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY  ....................................................... iii
Chapter I         INTRODUCTION ........................................................,.,,.,,,,.,,,.1
Chapter 2         ENVIRONMENTAL  CONTEXT  ............2...........................................2
A.  Environmental Resources and Issues...................................................2
Land Resources .............................................2
Water Resources ............................................                                                                  2
Wildlife and Biodiversity .............................................3
Coastal and Marine Resources .......3.....................................3
Urban and Industrial Pollution .............................................4
Energy Sources .............................................4
Mineral Resources ............................................4
B.   Market and Policy Failures ......................................................  4
C.   Institutional Failures ......................................................5
D.   Inadequate Public Awareness, Monitoring, and Commitment ........................... ................6
E.   Environmental Institutions ......................................................6
F. IDA and Donor Strategy in Sri Lanka's
Environmental Management .......................................................9
Chapter 3    THE  PROJECT  ...................................................... 12
A.  Project Rationale ................................................                                                             12
B     Project Objectives ................................................ 12
C.   Summary Description ................................................ 12
D.   Detailed Features ................................................ 13
Institutional Strengthening ................................................                                          13
Community Environment Initiatives Facility ................................................                           15
Pilot Land Management Component ................................................                                      16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Sri Lanka in October 1995. Mission members included
Messrs./iMmes. Ivar Serejski and Nadim Khouri (Task Managers); Guy Motha, Meena Munshi (SAIAN); Christina Hartler, Pedro Alba
(SAICO); Summith Pilapitava (SAISL); and Peter Browne-Cooper (Consultant). Messrs. Mohan Munasinghe (ENVPE): Tom Tsui
(CMUB); Townsend Swayze (AF4AN); and  John Redwood (ENVLW) were the peer reviewers. Ms. Mieko Nishimizu is the Regional
Vice President; Mr. Fakhruddin Ahmed is the Acting Country Director; and Mr. Ridwan Ali is the Agriculture and Natural Operations
Division Chief of Country Department 1, South Asia.



ii
E. Project Costs and Financing .................................,....,.,.,,,,.,.,,.,.,.,.,.,,,,.,.,.,,.17
F. Procurement .18
G. Disbursements ....,. 21
H. Auditing and Reporting ..... 22
I. Environment ..                                                             22
Chapter 4 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..     24
A. Coordination ..                                                            24
B. Implementation ..     24
C. Implementation Schedule ..                                                 27
D. Monitoring ..    27
Chapter 5 BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS ..                                       29
Chapter 6 AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..                                            33
ANNEXES
1. The Project's Link to Bank's Strategies
2. Policy Reform Agenda
3. Financial Data
4. Project Implementation Plan
5. Technical Assistance
6. Project Performance Indicators
7. Economic Analysis
8. Organization Charts
Charts 1-5     CEA & ED
Chart 6       Department of Agriculture
9. Related Documents Available in Project File
MAPS: IBRD 27672 - Location of the Pilot Land Management Component
IBRD 27673 - Agroecological Regions of Sri Lanka



iii
SRI LANKA
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Transport, Environment and Women's Affairs (MTEWA),
Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and Forestry (MAL&F), and Provincial Council
Central Province
Beneficiaries:        Ministry of Transport, Environment, and Women's Affairs
Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, and Forestry
Provincial Council Central Province
Non-Govemmental Organizations
Poverty:              Not Applicable
Amount:               SDR$10.7 million (US$14.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                Credit: Standard with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:       Standard (0.50% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
On Lending Terms:    Not Applicable
Financing Plan:       See Para. 3.26
Economic Rate         Not Applicable for the project as a whole. For the pilot activities in the
of Return:         Land Management Component 24%.
Staff Appraisal Report 15261-CE
Maps                 IBRD   27672  -  Location of the Pilot Land Management Component
IBRD   27673  -  Agroecological Regions of Sri Lanka
Project Identification   LKPA 10513
Number






SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Sri  Lanka has a rich and varied natural resource base, a basic network of economic
infrastructure and one of the best sets of social indicators in the developing world with an adult literacy
rate of almost 90%. With these assets, Sri Lanka has the potential to match the economic performance of
the newly industrialized countries (NICs) of East Asia. In 1989, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
reformed its economic policies. These reforms have led to a significant improvement in economic
performance, a surge in private sector investment, and rapid growth in labor-intensive manufactured
exports. As industrialization and tourism move forward, it is important that Sri Lanka takes measures to
ensure that further growth would not be gained at the expense of the environment or that environmental
problems do not hinder the achievement of growth targets. There is a particular need for policy and
institutional changes to promote efficient and more sustainable economic growth that explicitly takes
environmental factors into consideration. The proposed project is designed to help GOSL meet this need.
1.2    GOSL has taken initial steps to address environmental issues. On the institutional front, it
established the Central Environment Authority (CEA) under the National Environmental Act (the Act) in
1980. The Act gives a policy mandate to CEA, and in 1990 it also established the Environment Division
(ED) within the then Ministry of Environment and Parliamentary Affairs (MEPA) as the focal entity for
environmental policy, a role yet to be effectively assumed. Sri Lanka was also one of the first developing
countries to prepare a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP 1992-96). This was updated in 1994
(NEAP 1995-98) (paras. 2.32-2.35).  Finally,  GOSL is now drafting   new legislation, more
comprehensive in scope, in order to place the environment even higher on the national agenda. Despite
these initial steps, Sri Lanka remains confronted by serious environmental problems. Chief among these
are land degradation and the continuous threat to forest and other vulnerable ecosystems from shifting
cultivation, as well as air, water, and soil pollution caused by industrialization and tourism. Several donor
agencies, including the Bank, have been assisting GOSL in tackling some of these problems.
1.3    GOSL, in collaboration with the Bank and with financial support from the Royal Norwegian
Government, identified and prepared the Environmental Action 1 Project (EA1P). The Bank, while
acting as executing agency of a Project Preparation Trust Fund, engaged a consultant team that produced
the project preparation report (Sri Lanka Environmental Action 1 Project Preparation Report, July 1,
1994). This staff appraisal report is based on the preparation report and on the updated NEAP. The
proposed project is the first phase of a long-term effort to assist GOSL in environmental management.
Thc emphasis in this first phase is on strengthening the institutional and policy framework for
environmental management within which the Bank and other donors would provide assistance in the
environmental sector.



2
2. ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT
A.      ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES AND ISSUES
2.1    The following paragraphs give an overview of Sri Lanka's natural resource base and the nature
of environmental problems in each area:
2.2    Land Resources. Of Sri Lanka's 6.5 million ha, 2.2 million ha are under permanent cultivation
and 1.1 million ha are under shifting (chena) cultivation. About 73% of cultivated land is under
smallholdings. The major agricultural systems include irrigated croplands of rice and other food crops for
domestic consumption, mainly centered on 12,000 small anicuts or village tanks in the dry zone;
comparatively recent large-scale irrigation development projects, the largest of which are on the Mahaweli
River; about 800,000 ha of large, but declining, privately-owned, export-oriented tree crop plantations on
the 30-60° slopes of the central hill country; and chena cultivation practiced by 250,000 families. Of the
total irrigated area, 235,000 ha consists of minor schemes (<80 ha), 255,000 ha of medium schemes (80-
600 ha), and 45,000 ha of major schemes (>600 ha). Closed canopy of natural forests covers 1.33 million
ha or 20.2% of the land area. This represents a rapid decline from 44% cover in 1956 and 70-80% in
1900. Over 95% of the forests are state-owned.
2.3    Land degradation is perhaps the most critical environmental problem affecting Sri Lanka's future
development. It includes both the degradation of soils through sheet and gully erosion and declining
structure and fertility, and degradation of vegetation through deforestation, shifting cultivation, and
overuse. The two problems are interrelated and are mostly due to policy failures such as the lack of long-
term leases of state-owned land to farmers and the absence of transferable farmer user rights both of
which discourage spontaneous investments in sustainable production and contribute to land degradation.
Soil erosion leads not only to crop losses but also to negative impacts on hydropower dams and reservoirs,
irrigation and water supply infrastructure, and fisheries. Recent studies show that soil erosion in the mid-
country is more than 100 tons/ha per annum. The most severe erosion occurs in tobacco lands and
neglected tea lands of smallholders. Some reports indicate over 300-400 tons/ha/year soil loss on such
lands. In the dry and intermediate zones, more than a million ha are subjected to shifting cultivation that
remains one of the principal activities of the majority of the population. Shifting cultivation depletes soil
fertility and causes weed infestation, soil erosion, and decline in crop yields. Sri Lanka has one of the
highest deforestation rates in the world at 4%. Deforestation has been most severe in the dry zone, and
species-rich lowland rain forests are limited to less than 10% of the total forest area. Many remaining
natural forests have been seriously degraded, leading to reduced biodiversity.
2.4    Until now, GOSL has not paid much attention to tackling land degradation on a holistic and
comprehensive basis involving a watershed approach. Although some initiatives have started recently on
an experimental basis, comprehensive strategies and programs to address these issues are several years
away. On the basis of the experiences and research in Sri Lanka and similar agroecological zones in Asia,
it is possible to design pilot programs using technologies to address the main degradation problems based
on the watershed approach. Technologies can be grouped into water and soil conservation technologies
such as mulching, construction of stone terraces, and the use of vegetative hedges, and biomass enhancing
technologies such as farm forestry and private or community woodlots. The pilot land management
component of this project would address the issue of land degradation and test and develop on a watershed
basis suitable site-specific technologies, taking account of gradient and soil characteristics for minimizing
the extent of land degradation (paras. 3.19-3.24). The pilot thus would help increase agricultural
productivity as well as reduce the risk of erosion and its associated on-farm and off-farm impacts.
2.5     Water Resources.  More than 100 rivers flow in a radial pattern from the island's central
mountains to the sea. Twelve rivers account for 75% of total river discharge, and about half of this flows



3
through the wet zone. The principal exception is the Mahaweli River, the country's largest, which flows
in a northeastern direction through the dry zone to the sea. Most of the country's surface water is used for
irrigation, which is provided to about 68% of the total cultivated land, and electricity generation.
Hydropower provides 90% of Sri Lanka's current electricity needs, but there is little potential for further
large-scale hydropower developments (see para. 2.12). Annual renewable water resources amount to
about 5,600 m3 per capita. Only 15% of this total is used, but of this, the greater part (96%) is consuned
by agriculture, with 2% used by industry and 2% for domestic purposes. The only area with a water
surplus is the western wet zone, and the most acute deficit areas are in the northwest and southeast dry
zones. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is assisting GOSL with preparation of a comprehensive
water resource management plan and is strengthening institutional capacity in water resource
management.
2.6     Groundwater can provide supplementary irrigation in many areas of the dry zone, except the
northern districts. Groundwater is also increasingly used as source of potable water supplies, especially in
small towns and rural areas. Similarly, larger urban areas and industrial enterprises are growing users of
this water source. Available data show, however, that this development is occurring without considering
the resource availability, its renewability, and effects of exploitation on the local ecology.
2.7    The emerging problems relating to water include soil salinity and water logging, deterioration of
water quality, emergence of health issues, and depletion of ground water resources. Soil salinity and
water logging are major concerns in recently developed irrigation projects where drainage of irrigated
lands receives insufficient attention. More than one-third of the population is using unprotected wells,
rivers, and tanks and does not have access to safe drinking water. Thus, the incidence of water-related
illnesses is very high. The greatest threat to the groundwater supply is in the Jaffna Peninsula, which is
dependent on this source for agriculture and human consumption. Groundwater is obtained from caverns
that are usually connected to the sea, so that fresh water is confined to the top portion. A good part of the
fresh water used for agriculture goes back into these groundwater reservoirs. Therefore, fertilizers and
pesticides can pollute this supply. Investigations have already shown considerable aquifer contamination
by nitrates, especially in the Kalpitiya and the Jaffna Peninsula.
2.8     Wildlife and Biodiversity. Sri Lanka's biological diversity is of global significance, and it has
greater biodiversity per unit area than any other country in Asia. Its wildlife includes 628 known species
of terrestrial vertebrates, 84 species of mammals, 379 birds, 32 amphibians, 133 reptiles, and at least 59
species of freshwater fish. Most of the endemic (unique) animal and plant species inhabit the rain forests
of the wet zone. Although over 12% of the land has been set aside for conservation in an extensive system
of protected areas, most of the relatively large reserves are in the dry zone and not in the wet southwest
region where plant and animal diversity and endemism are most significant. Biodiversity is under threat
in Sri Lanka primarily from the progressive reduction in its natural forests and other ecosystems such as
the wetlands and the mangroves and the selective exploitation of species (particularly for timber). Several
donor agencies such as the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD), the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Netherlands, and the United Nations
Development Program/Food and Agricultural Organization (UNDP/FAO) are assisting GOSL in a
number of biodiversity/wildlife conservation projects, including wetlands.
2.9     Coastal and Marine Resources. Several hundred miles of coral reefs; 120,000 ha of brackish
water lagoons, estuaries, and mangrove swamps; and about 140,000 ha of freshwater tanks and reservoirs
provide the basis for productive marine and inshore fisheries. The vast majority of the fish catch (85%)
comes from marine sources-about 183,000 tons annually. Although fishing contributes only 2% of
GDP, fish is the major source of animal protein in the Sri Lankan diet and fishing supports about 500,000
people. The coastal environment, however, is being seriously degraded by various forms of pollution, silt
deposition, erosion compounded by sand and coral mining, conversion to tourist facilities, and the loss of
mangroves.



4.
2.10    The key environmental issues in the coastal zones are loss of habitats and nursery grounds;
overexploitation of coastal resources including fish, sand, and coral limestone; and marine pollution
causing, inter alia, reduced growth rates for coral reefs and other living organisms in the marine
environment, health hazards for recreational users of polluted waters, and reduced fish production. The
prognosis for the condition of the coastal environment in Sri Lanka by the end of the century is bleak if
the current trends of environmental deterioration continue at the present rates.
2.11    Urban and Industrial Pollution.  Urbanization and industrialization have occurred virtually
without enforcement of regulatory measures. Unregulated industries have exploited underpriced air,
water, and land; and unchecked urbanization has spread haphazardly, outstripping adequate
infrastructure. Pollution of the urban and industrial sectors has an impact on the aquatic environment.
Sri Lanka also faces enormous problems with the special requirements for the disposal of hospital,
industrial, and other forms of toxic waste, much of which is expected to increase with continued economic
development. Because of the low level of treatment of municipal and industrial wastewater, the receiving
waters are considerably polluted. The Kelani River receives untreated effluent from 21 industries and
untreated sewage of 1.6 million people living in metropolitan areas. The Colombo Environmental
Improvement Project (CEIP) addresses this issue and includes an industrial liquid waste component and a
clean settlement program.'  Remedial measures to these problems are also taken under the Bank-
supported Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program (MEIP), and pollution reduction projects
supported by USAID, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, and the Netherlands
government.
2.12    Energy Sources.   The primary energy sources in Sri Lanka include biomass (72%),
hydroelectricity (10%), and petroleum (18%). Up to now, Sri Lanka has suffered little environmental
damage from energy production and use. Hydro electricity dominates the present power system, and the
principal environmental issue that the power sector has had to deal with in the past has been the
relocation and resettlement of people displaced by reservoirs. This is changing as the system gradually
shifts toward an increasing number of thermal plants. A case study of Sri Lanka2 provides an assessment
of a wide range of policy options, including representative demand-side management measures, renewable
energy options (such as wind power), and clean coal technologies. The case study is the beginning of a
long-term effort to integrate environmental considerations into energy sector planning in Sri Lanka. The
Study of Linkages Between Macroeconomic Policies and the Environment in Sri Lanka complements the
above assessment (para. 2.36).
2.13    Mineral Resources. Sri Lanka is well endowed with mineral resources. The country's most
important minerals are gems that account for about 5% of export earnings. The mining industry can be
broadly classified into two categories: artisanal mining and large-scale organized mechanized mining.
Gem mining contributes to land degradation, especially in selected localities. The general environmental
issues associated with the mining industry include destruction of the vegetative cover and loss of
agricultural production, increased occurrence and intensity of floods, increased incidence of vector-borne
diseases, and increased coastal erosion.
B.      MARKET AND POLICY FAILURES
2.14    Market and policy failures result in natural resources not being costed at their true value, thus
leading to their inefficient allocation and use and their subsequent degradation. This is true in many
developing countries including Sri Lanka, where several conditions for the efficient functioning of
markets are lacking, and many natural resource services function outside the marketplace. There is often
a wide divergence between the private and social costs of using natural resources. When farmers crop
I Sri Lanka. Colombo Environmental Improvement Project (1995). Report No. 12878-CE
2 Incorporating Environmental Concerns into Power Sector Decision making. A case Study for Sri Lanka. Peter
Maier and Mohan Munasinghe - World Bank Environment Paper No 6.



5
marginal land, besides falling productivity of the site, it may also cause externalities or costs downstream
or over time. For example, increased water run off from the cropped land or over grazed pasture would
cause erosion and increased silting of downstream reservoirs, as well as increased flooding and
agricultural and urban damage. Again, the market does not put a value on the environmental services of
woodlands, and decisions to cut trees are made without considering the value of these important
environmental services. The negative externalities resulting from  activities such as  deforestation,
rangeland degradation, siltation of reservoirs, loss of wildlife habitats, and hydrological imbalance due to
the activities of peoples in and around their farms underscore the need for government intervention based
on a sustainable resource management strategy. Policies should be put in place to reflect the true
opportunity costs of the resource base.  Such intervention should take the form  of providing
incentives/disincentives for adoption of sustainable resource management techniques in achieving
increased productivity of resources, education, training, and advice on sustainable and environmentally
sound resource management techniques and practices to raise incomes.
2.15    Policy studies undertaken during project preparation identified the range of economy-wide and
sectoral policies that have a negative impact (direct or indirect) on the environment and concluded that
most of the causes of priority environmental problems can be attributed, in part, to the existing structure
of incentives/disincentives (see Annex 8). Based on the findings of the studies, a policy reform agenda
conducive to sound environmental management was formulated and included in the updated NEAP (para.
2.32). The wide range of policy issues covered by Sri Lanka's NEAP could be grouped into: (i) issues
related to environmental institutions (e.g., current government policies do not include a clear
determination of public/private sector roles in environmental management); and (ii) issues that underlie
the incentive structure leading to specific environmental problems. The latter issues are, in general, of a
sectoral or a microeconomic nature and are generally caused by the underpricing of natural resources with
respect to access (leading mainly to agricultural land degradation, deforestation, over fishing, and over
mining) or services (leading to pollution by untreated waste disposal, etc.). In some areas, however,
analyses are needed to define the exact linkages between the sector and economy-wide policies and the
environment (para. 2.36). As important as timely action to address these issues is the need to develop and
maintain a capacity for establishing linkages between economic policy and the environment. As a follow
up to the above policy studies, a Policy Letter was submitted to IDA on September 1, 1995, and an Action
Plan that identifies major environmental policy actions was discussed with GOSL as part of the project
(para. 3.13).
C.     INSTITUTIONAL FAILURES
2.16    Most national environmental strategies and action plans identify institutional weaknesses as a
vital factor contributing to the perpetuation of environmental degradation. This is certainly true in Sri
Lanka where unclear definition of institutional responsibilities and weak implementation capacity have
led to weak environmental management. Project preparatory work revealed that policy formulation,
program implementation, enforcement and monitoring are not effectively performed by the various
government institutions (paras. 2.19-2.29). There is a lack of clarity of mandates and coordination
mechanisms amongst government entities as well as a shortage of well-trained environmental staff in the
Ministry of Transport, Environment and Women's Affairs' (MTEWA) ED, CEA, and other line and local
entities. One reason for the confusion has been the changing mandates of CEA with regard to policy
formulation. While the proposed new environmental legislation would clarify these roles, assistance would
be needed to ensure that the new institutional set-up is effective. The shortage of adequate staff resources
is exacerbated by a high rate of staff turnover and difficulty in filling vacancies with well-trained and
experienced staff due, inter alia, to relatively low salary scales for technical staff. CEA does not have the
human and financial resources to effectively carry out Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), industrial
licensing and inspection, small industries regulation, and response to pollution emergencies and
enforcement. The project would strengthen MTEWA to assist development of policy and monitoring
capabilities and mandate the regular updating of the NEAP, and to steer natural resource management
policy and planning and coordination among all agencies (paras. 3.5-3.11). To complement the activities



6
under this project, other donor agencies are currently planning to assist in strengthening the
environmental management capacities of the line Ministries and provincial government institutions.
2.17   There has also been limited community involvement in the management of natural resources in
Sri Lanka. The experience and lessons learned from other developing countries is that the 'top down
approach" should be replaced by community-based institutional structures that not only fill the
institutional vacuum but also cover part of the operational costs. This means identifying and promoting
the use of environmental resources, in a manner that is not only sustainable, but that provides adequate
financial returns to the users, thereby minimizing conflicts between growth and conservation objectives.
The proposed Community Environmental Initiatives Facility (CEIF) is designed so that local needs,
priorities, and capabilities are taken into consideration, and the local communities/non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) are given full implementation responsibilities to ensure sustainable use of
environmental resources (para. 3.15).
D.     INADEQUATE PUBLIC AWARENESS. MONITORING. AND COMMITMENT
2.18   Other factors that have contributed to environmental degradation in Sri Lanka are a lack of
information, inadequate public awareness about environmental problems and their causes, and insufficient
political will to address the problems. The public needs to be made aware that environmental degradation
can threaten growth itself and its costs to society in the long run could be extremely high. Public
awareness needs to be increased through mass media and education if sustainable and economically
efficient use of land resources is to be practiced by the community. Mass education is also necessary if
community participation is to play a greater role in resource management. Not only are general education
and communication programs lacking in Sri Lanka, but specific information and data on the status of the
environment in Sri Lanka are fragmented and inadequate. Institutional communication within Ministries
is minimal. The need to establish an effective environmental information system, by setting up a network
of information exchange, has been strongly expressed during the NEAP process. The project would fund
environmental education and mass awareness programs with emphasis on the local level and the
development of a national environmental monitoring information system to address this constraint (para.
3.10).
E.     ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONS
2.19   Two critical ministries from an environmental, multi-sectoral management perspective are the
large and influential Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) and the relatively new MTEWA. Most of
the line agencies in GOSL take an active role in some aspect of environmental management and,
therefore, have a say in the implementation of environmental priorities through sectoral action. This
section presents the main institutions involved in Sri Lanka's environmental management, with particular
attention given to the multi-sectoral environmental entities.
Central Policy Setting and Coordination
2.20   Ministry of Finance and Planning. MFP is responsible for policy formulation in all sectors. This
includes the review and approval of all development projects, the public investment program, and the
annual budget. MFP coordinates and monitors environmental programs and donor support for these
programs through the National Environmental Steering Committee (NESC).
2.21    Ministry of Transport. Environment and Women's Affairs. MTEWA was established in 1994 as
a Cabinet Ministry. It includes the 'Environment Division" within the Ministry of Transport and
Women's Affairs and has authority over CEA. Although both MTEWA and CEA have made considerable
progress in recent years, MTEWA still lacks the capacity and sectoral recognition to formulate
environmental policies according to the country's economic development goals and policies. MTEWA
also lacks the human and financial resources necessary to take a leading and more decisive role in



7
environmental conservation and natural resource management in Sri Lanka. Its official strength of 12
professional positions does not presently provide this capacity, and the present structure of MTEWA is
inadequate to meet all the needs and challenges related to environmental management and protection.
Allocation and delineation of authority and responsibilities within MTEWA are not clear, and there is a
need for a more functional organizational structure.  Furthermore, MTEWA lacks a responsive
administrative, accounting and information function to serve its own particular needs.
2.22   National Environmental Steering Committee. NESC was originally established as an ad hoc
body to coordinate the NEAP. It is responsible for coordinating and monitoring all environmental
initiatives, including donor assistance programs, and is co-chaired by the Secretaries of MFP and
MTEWA. But NESC lacks the capacity and experts needed to develop national environmental policies
and coordinate their implementation. In practice, it has functioned more as a forum for resolving
operational issues and conflicts.
2.23    Secretaries' Committee for Environment and Development (SCED). The Cabinet has recently
appointed a Senior Committee of Secretaries, chaired by the Secretary, MTEWA, to develop a national
environmental policy.  This committee would work closely with all agencies in preparing an
environmental policy paper. It is expected to remain as an active committee that would not only address
ad hoc environmental issues, as was done by NESC, but also address broader policy issues relating to
economic development.
Enforcement and Monitoring
2.24   Central Environmental Authority (CEAl. CEA, established in 1980, was originally the sole
statutory body with environmental protection responsibility under the Basic Environment Law (#47/1980).
Constrained by a vague mandate, weak government commitment, limited resources, and lack of specific
environmental management tools and implementation authority, CEA's accomplishments during the first
ten years were modest. Amendments to the Basic Environment Law enacted in 1988 designated industrial
pollution control as CEA's priority mandate and assigned environmental licensing authority to the
agency. A 1990 regulation equipped CEA with another potentially powerful tool, EIA, and EIA became a
statutory requirement in 1993. CEA has delegated EIA review and approval responsibilities to 14 Project
Approving Agencies (PAAs), and it helps these agencies process their EIA reports.
2.25    CEA has introduced an environmental licensing scheme (EPL) aimed at all polluting industries
and projects, and helped to establish pollution mitigation regulations (1990) and a statutory requirement
for EIAs (1993). CEA's other activities have included an inventory of imported chemicals; a review of
existing legislative measures affecting the environment; environmental awareness programs in schools; an
environmental volunteer service program; the production of teaching aides and educational materials; the
establishment of an environmental library; and the presentation of seminars, workshops, radio, and TV
programs on environmental issues. CEA participates in MEIP, water quality monitoring, air pollution
monitoring for Colombo, environmental clearance of hotel projects, implementation of the Forestry
Master Plan. etc. CEA's Legal Unit, with only two officers, is severely understaffed.
2.26   The broad and growing responsibilities of CEA are not matched by its human and financial
resources. The inadequacy of existing staff levels (130 total staff positions, of which 51 are managerial,
professional, or technical positions and the remainder are support positions) would be somewhat relieved
by the addition of new positions under the project. Approval of the new positions is currently being
processed by the Government. However, CEA has experienced difficulty in filling vacant posts due to a
national shortage of appropriately qualified candidates and unattractive compensation levels that are
inferior to those of comparable state bodies. Recently established donor-supported advanced degree
programs in environmental disciplines are expected to relieve the shortage of qualified candidates within
this decade, but the problem of unattractive compensation levels remains. In addition to unattractive
compensation levels, other weaknesses of the incentive system include heavy weighting of length of
service vs. merit criteria for promotion, severe wage compression, and desultory external supervision



8
(para. 3.8).  CEA has recently delegated some of its local regulatory functions to the Divisional
Secretariats (DSs) (para. 2.29). Accelerated economic development, including rapid industrialization, is
imposing increasing demands on the agency in the role of MTEWA's technical, regulatory, and
implementing arm. Presently, CEA has no branches outside the capital city. CEA has, however, recently
obtained GOSL approval to establish four Regional Offices, anticipating that there would eventually be
one such office in each province.
2.27    A Corporate Plan prepared in 1991 for the period 1992-96 outlines priority objectives, strategies,
and action plans for CEA.  This plan proposes staff increases of about 70%, improvements in
compensation packages, and a reorganization.  Until recently, there has been little progress in
implementing the Plan's recommendations, despite a 1992 review that identified CEA's long- and short-
term objectives and priorities. This lack of progress has mainly been due to the high number of vacancies
in CEA and consequent lack of implementation capacity.
2.28    While CEA expanded its EIA and licensing programs and gained valuable operational
experience in these areas after 1990, it failed to articulate a strategic plan, adequately strengthen its
technical credibility, or achieve visible successes in pollution control. With the shift of the policy-making
role to MTEWA, CEA now functions more as a technical, executing, and regulatory arm of MTEWA.
CEA is working closely and more effectively with MTEWA, and proposed new laws would strengthen
CEA's ability, to carry out its designated role.
2.29   Provincial & Local Institutions. The 13th Amendment to the Constitution empowered nine
Provincial Councils (PCs) and 308 DSs with stubstantial administrative responsibilities. Seven PCs with
Chief Ministers and provincial ministries have been operating since 1989. Under the 1987 Constitution,
environment is a partially devolved subject, and this permits the PCs to establish a Provincial
Environmental Authority (PEA).  However, only one province, Northwest Province, has enacted
provincial environmental legislation and has a small PEA with limited capacity. The lack of involvement
of the PCs, local authorities, and DSs in environmental management and protection is a shortcoming that
would need to be addressed. While this first-phase project would not address regional institutional
strengthening as a priority, it would nevertheless: (i) demonstrate PC involvement in environmental issues
tlhrough thc pilot land management component (para. 4. 11); (ii) foster local authority involvement
through the CEIF (para. 3.15); and (iii) coordinate with bilateral external agencies (e.g., Dutch and
Norwegian assistance) that are involved in regional institutional strengthening.
2.30    Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Communities. There are reportedly more than
275 environmental NGOs in Sri Lanka. NGOs have been playing increasingly active roles in areas of
operational implementation of environmental management as well as advocacy to raise awareness to
environmental issues at the official and community levels. While most of these organizations are small in
size and operate at the local level, there is an increasing number of national NGOs, with headquarters in
Colombo. who receive significant support from external support agencies, mainly the Netherlands,
Norway, Canada, and the USA. There is general appreciation in Sri Lanka that ED of MTEWA and the
CEA are leading the rest of governmental agencies in their acceptance of NGO and community
participation in the planning and implementation of development actions. This effort of GOSL-NGO
collaboration has facilitated NGO influence in the formulation of the first and second NEAPs and has
ensured NGO participation in the design of the present project. The project would further develop
participation in overall environmental management by (i) formalizing NGO participation as a priority
program of MTEWA (para. 3.5); (ii) including NGOs in the overall program of training and human
resources development pursued by the project (para. 3.12); and (iii) promoting NGO implementation of
environmental activities through the CEIF component (para. 3.16) and the pilot land management
component (para. 4.11).
2.31    The Private Sector. To date, private sector participation in environmental management has been
slower than NGO participation. While GOSL's stated policy is to encourage private-public partnerships
in addressing environmental concerns, the actual mechanisms and significant benefits of such



9
partnerships are still to be demonstrated. For obvious reasons of long-term sustainability, the present
project would not provide direct assistance to the private sector. However, the project would indirectly
promote the role of the private sector through support to the contracting out of activities that are now done
by the public sector (paras. 3.7, 3.8), policy action (para. 3.13),  and inclusion of private-public
partnerships initiatives under the CEIF component (para. 3.16).
The National Environmental Action Plan
2.32    Sri Lanka became one of the first developing countries to elaborate, with IDA assistance, a
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP 1992-1996) in 1991. The NEAP included the major findings
and recommendations of the National Conservation Strategy, the National Report to the United Nations
Conference for Environment & Development (UNCED) and the World Bank-supported Environmental
Action Plan of 1991. The plan is being carried out with the active support of the donor community and
NGOs. The original plan was, however, a preliminary framework that defined the broad objectives, and
priorities for environmental policies and programs. It fell short of making a critical assessment of the
interaction between economic policies and environmental issues. GOSL felt that far more should and
could be done to better incorporate sound environment management into the economic development
process and that enough had changed since 1991 to warrant updating the NEAP. For these reasons, and
as part of the preparation activities of the present project, GOSL updated the NEAP in 1994. The updated
NEAP3 covers the period 1995-1998. Perhaps the single most significant aspect of the first revision of
the NEAP is to attempt to articulate the relationships between the country's broad-based economic
development strategies and the steps necessary to ensure environmentally sound development.
2.33    Three important premises were given to this effort. First, the updated NEAP has been developed
with a highly participatory and collaborative process. Second, it is intended to be a 'living" document,
which can be further updated and built upon in the future. Third, it provides a dynamic environmental
policy foundation to obtain further financial support for programs designed to assist Sri Lanka's efforts to
achieve environmentally sustainable development.
2.34   The updated NEAP.  The updated NEAP provides a framework for interventions deemed
necessary to safeguard the environment. It consists of six program areas: (i) strengthening institutions to
coordinate environmental activities, developing policies and legislation and enforcing regulations;
(ii) managing land and water resources; (iii) protecting forest and biodiversity; (iv) managing urban and
industrial pollution; (v) protecting coastal and marine resources; and (vi) managing energy and mineral
resources. The updated NEAP sets the stage for regular updating exercises to ensure that Sri Lanka
follows a sustainable economic development path.
2.35    The updated NEAP has, however, several shortcomings. First, it has a short-term horizon.
Second, it comprises several programs that are at different levels of maturity, some being merely
identified, some being adequately prepared and qualified for instant support. Third, the plan falls short of
defining priority actions within broad categories of problems, identifying appropriate policy instruments,
and integrating environmental concerns more cost-effectively and consistently across economic sectors.
Further analyses would be undertaken during the project period to refine some of the linkages and identify
appropriate policy instruments in each program area (see para. 3.13).
F.     IDA AND DONOR STRATEGY IN SRI LANKA'S ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
2.36    Country Assistance Strate v. The World Bank Group's country assistance strategy for Sri
Lanka4  is designed to help Sri Lanka realize its goal of economic growth and poverty reduction
comparable to that of its more prosperous East Asian neighbors. To support the growth objective, Bank
Group efforts concentrate on: fiscal restraint, the reduction in losses of public enterprises through
3  National Environiental Action Plan. 1995-1998. June 1994
4  Country Assistance Strategy, May 21, 1996



l0
accelerated privatization, the elimination of unproductive subsidies, and the promotion of sustainable
private-sector led growth. Central to this objective is the need to provide for a conducive institutional and
policy framework for private investment and for public investment in infrastructure, to help stimulate a
supply response and the ensure that growth will not be at the expense of the natural environment or the
quality of urban life. To address the poverty reduction objective, the Bank Group's approach highlights
creating jobs and raising rural incomes by improving the environment for private sector growth,
particularly in agriculture. To translate its strategy into action, IDA has taken an increasingly active role
in the environment as reflected in its sector work and lending (see para. 2.37), and it had a leading role in
the preparation of the first NEAP. IDA also contributed to the NEAP updating process and supported the
Study of Linkages Between Macroeconomic Policies and the Environment, which analyzes the linkages
among a range of economic policies and crucial environment issues related to the Colombo Region, the
Energy Sector, and the Tree Crop Sector.5   Annex 1 gives the details of project's link to Bank's
strategies. This project fits into the Bank Group's country assistance strategy as it would strengthen the
institutional and policy framework for environmental management leading to cost-effective and fiscally
sustainable increases in selective areas of environmental policy making and enforcement that belong in
the private sector, while promoting the contracting out of environmental services currently undertaken by
the public sector. The institutional strengthening component of this project will establish and support
sustainable mechanisms of coordination between NGOs, public and private sector entities, and external
donors in addressing policy and investment issues for the promotion of environmental management.
Also, the project will continue the investigation of economic policy-environment linkages in view of the
promotion of market-driven interventions for environmental management.
2.37   The FY89 Forest Sector Development Project aims to improve the forestry sector through
establishment of an Environmental Management System (para 3.10). The FY93 Second Agricultural
Extension Project addresses issues of land degradation.  The FY93 Community Water Supply and
Sanitation Project represents the beginning of a nationwide program to adopt the community-based
approach for providing rural water supply and sanitation. The FY94 Colombo Urban Transport Project
addresses issues of air pollution in Colombo. In the urban sector, MEIP has also completed preparation
of an Environmental Management Strategy for the Colombo Region. The FY96 Colombo Environment
Improvement Project (CEIP) supports measures to deal with pollution from both domestic and industrial
sources. Finally, the FY96 Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project supports private sector
initiatives in sewage treatment.
2.38   International Support. Many other bilateral and multilateral agencies and donors are supporting
environmental protection and resource conservation work in Sri Lanka. The more active and visible
groups include USAID, ADB, and UNDP. USAID is supporting the Natural Resources & Environmental
Policy Project (NAREPP) (1991-1997) which addresses basic national environmental policy and
implementation issues. USAID also supports the Shared Control of Resources Project that responds to
issues in the land and water resources sector. ADB is supporting the Land Use Policy Planning Project
which helps build land use policies and plans. UNDP provides financial assistance to the MEIP and is also
supporting the National Agenda 21, which formulates broad sustainable strategies.
2.39    At the sectoral level, the most significant environmental programs in Sri Lanka are in forestry
and urban and industrial development: (a) a succession of large-scale forestry plans and activities funded
by the Finnish International Development Agency, the Overseas Development Administration, ADB and
UNDP; (b) a 5-year ADB-financed Participatory Forestry Project, and (c) the ADB-financed Sri Lanka
Urban Development Project with components in (i) infrastructure development in medium and small
urban centers, (ii) strengthening urban sector policies, and (iii) training of staff. Donor support,
however, has been provided in an uncoordinated and piecemeal fashion. Also, despite this support, the
GOSL's Core Investment Program (CIP) for 1995 and 1996 and Public Investment Program (PIP) for the
Environmental Department, World Bank:  Understanding Economic-Environmental Linkages:  A Policy
Framework for Sri Lanka, Draft, October 1995.



11
same period indicate a clear need for additional funding in almost all six areas of emphasis of the NEAP,
particularly in priority areas of land resources. But more importantly there is a greater need for efficient
priority setting within a constrained resources environment. It is recognized that the process of protecting
the environment, reversing damage, and developing and strengthening environmental institutions is a
process that needs to be nurtured.
2.40    Lessons From  Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. The proposed project integrates the lessons
learned from environmental projects supported by the Bank/IDA.6 The principal lessons reflected in the
design of this project include: (a) Institutions: (i) no ideal blueprint exists for environmental institutions,
but the establishment of formal high-level agencies for setting policies and ensuring enforcement should
significantly improve environmental management; (ii) strengthening national and subnational
institutional and technical capabilities for environmental management is of critical importance; and (iii)
community and NGO participation can play an important role in support of public sector environmental
institutions; (b) Policies: (i) political support of environmental objectives must be secured; and (ii)
environmental regulations should be accompanied to the extent possible by economic incentives; and (c)
Investments: (i) the success of environmental projects is conditioned by adequate institutional capacity and
technical information and a supportive policy environment; and (ii) donor assistance for investments
prioritized under environmental strategies and action plans should be coordinated.
6   OED, 1992, World Bank Approaches to the Environment in Brazil; World Bank, 1992, WDR'92 Development
and the Environment; World Bank, 1993, Environmental Issues in World Bank Proiects; ESD, 1995, National
Environmental Strategies: Learning from Experience; and ED, 1995, FY95 Annual Report on the Environment.



12
3. THE PROJECT
A.     Project Rationale
3.]    IDA's role in supporting GOSL to achieve project objectives is in formulating and implementing
a policy reform agenda, strengthening institutions and coordinating donor activities in the sector. IDA
has a comparative advantage in these areas and can contribute considerably to increasing coordination
between donors on key policy and institutional issues. The project would also complement other Bank
efforts in addressing Sri Lanka's environmental priorities including the Forest Sector Development
Project, the Colombo Urban Transport Project, and the recent CEIP.
B.     Project Objectives
3.2    The primary objective of the proposed project is to assist GOSL in strengthening the institutional
and policy framework for environmental management within which IDA and other donors would provide
assistance for improved environmental management. In particular, the project would: (i) support the
restructuring of MTEWA's ED for better policy planning and coordination and the strengthening of CEA
to better carry out its analytical, monitoring and enforcement responsibilities; (ii) support ongoing efforts
to integrate environmental considerations in the overall development planning process; and (iii) help
GOSL take immediate remedial measures to reverse the trend of environmental degradation through pilot
programs involving participatory approaches to environmental management.
C.     Summary Description
3.3    The project would be the initial five-year phase of an expected long term program of IDA
support for sustaining government capacity in the field of environmental planning and management. The
project would comprise three major components:
(a)    Institutional Strengthening (US$12.5 million) for: (i) restructuring ED within MTEWA
to allow it to play a central role in environmental policy, planning and coordination at
the national level; (ii) restructuring and strengthening CEA through establishment and
implementation of a staff development program, enhancement of the Industrial
Licensing and Inspection Program, development of environmental codes of practice for
small industries, improvement of EIA capacity, and strengthening of the environmental
information system; (iii) provision of office and technical facilities to accommodate both
ED and CEA7; and (iv) studies of the linkages between sector and economy-wide
policies and the environment including an annual review of the environmental
implications of the PIP and further updating of the NEAP. Finally, it would include a
policy letter and a policy action plan that would broadly define legal, institutional, and
policy changes that are required for sound environmental management. Formal
covenants, however, would only be directly related to the proposed project;
(b)    Community Environmental Initiatives Facilitv (CEIF) (US$4.7 million) which would
be established to finance well-planned environmental activities at the grass-roots level
within the priority NEAP/PIP. CEIF would provide a mechanism for pooling resources
(to which other donors could also contribute) and serve as a vehicle for private sector
and NGO participation and for decentralizing environmental activities; and
A detailed staffing plan for restructuring ED and strengthening CEA has been agreed upon with MTEWA.
Financing of the above would include incremental staff, training, consultancy, vehicles, civil work, and
equipment.



13
(c)    Pilot Land Management Component  (US$ 3.5 million) which would entail pilot
projects involving community participation to rehabilitate degraded lands.
D.      Detailed Features
Institutional Strengthening (US$12.5 million)
3.4    To ensure that the institutional strengthening component is not undermined by duplication or
overlap of perceived roles of ministries and government agencies, the respective mandates of the
Environment Division and CEA satisfactory to IDA have been clarified by MTEWA during Negotiations
and a letter to that effect was submitted by the GOSL negotiating team.
3.5    Policy and Planning Assistance to the Environment Division (ED). The project would support the
establishment of a Policy Unit, headed by a Senior Policy Advisor. The project would assist this unit to
develop policy analysis and consensus-building capabilities that are now virtually absent at the national
level and ensure institutionalization of the NEAP process in combination with the public investment
planning process. The main policy mission of the Unit would include: (i) providing policy advice and
assisting in policy studies and policy formulation in all matters related to environmental conservation
(para 3.13): (ii) preparing papers for Cabinet to decide on major environment issues requiring decision;
(iii) managing a research program on priority environmental policy issues related to the PIP; (iv) serving
as the Secretariat of the Committee on Integrating Environment and Development Policy, which would
entail preparing policy briefs for consideration by the Committee (para. 4.1); (v) liaising with
environmental policy networks in Sri Lanka and the region; and (vi) assisting the NEAP updating
process. The planning mission of the Unit would include: (i) managing the periodic NEAP updating
process, making full use of the network of sectoral focus groups that prepared the last NEAP update and
policy staff of the Policy Planning Unit; (ii) seeking and coordinating line agency, NGO and donor
involvement in the implementation of NEAP activities; and (iii) monitoring and reporting on
implementation of activities under the NEAP. Assurance were obtained at Negotiations that the policy
unit would be established by July 31, 1997 and that the updated NEAP covering the period 1999-2002
would be issued no later than September 30, 1997 (para 6.1 (a), (b)).
3.6    To assist development of policy and planning capabilities within the Unit, the project would
finance: (i) additional staff (para 4.3); (ii) technical assistance to assist the Senior Policy Advisor prepare
annual policy research and NEAP work programs and monitor key performance indicators (para 4.17);
(iii) a training program to expose the staff to environmental policy analysis and planning activities in
other countries, including participation in regional environmental policy conferences and a twinning
arrangement with an overseas environmental agency with relevant policy and planning experience
(Annexes 4-5); (iv) research and publications budget; and (v) vehicles and office equipment.
3.7    Assistance to CEA.    To improve CEA's regulatory and enforcement capabilities, a
comprehensive program has been designed, focusing on the following areas: (i) redefinition of CEA's
mandate: with the transfer of policy-making activities to ED (see para. 3.5), CEA will concentrate its
resources primarily on regulatory and enforcement activities; (ii) institutional restructuring: CEA will be
reorganized to increase staff efficiency and motivation; (iii) review of incentives structure: to increase
CEA's capacity to attract and retain highly qualified and competent staff in key positions; (iv) human
resources development: this will provide strengthening of competence of existing staff within the
institution as a complement to attracting highly qualified new recruits; (v) contracting out of selected
activities: this would allow CEA to concentrate more efficiently on a limited number of truly critical
facilitating and regulatory activities that cannot be performed by the private sector; and (vi) revision of the
fees structure of CEA: this would diminish the budgetary impact of CEA operations and ensure a
rational, market-related approach to fees collected by CEA.
3.8    To assist in strengthening CEA, the project would finance: (i) technical assistance:  for
reviewing, early in the project, CEA's staff incentives; improving CEA-PAAs (line agencies) linkages in



14
environmental assessment; expanding the codes of practices for enforcement; overcoming the backlog of
applications; refining existing ambient quality standards; designing training programs for CEA staff;
improving information management systems; increasing private sector involvement in enforcement
activities; and reviewing the fees structure of CEA with special emphasis on improving the collection of
fees for the renewal of licenses (para. 3.32 and Annex 5); (ii) human resources development program:
this includes on-the-job training in basic aspects of inspection and follow-up and training of CEA
managers to analyze enforcement options and optimize CEA resource allocation, and a twinning
arrangement with an overseas environmental agency with relevant enforcement experience (Annex 5);
(iii) vehicles and equipment; and (iv) pilot programs. Based on the findings of the technical assistance
studies on staff incentives and private sector involvement, two pilot programs will be implemented. The
first will implement an improved incentive system for CEA staff, with potential testing of promotion
scores for the evaluation of merit/seniority-based incentives, the role of competition between enforcement
teams, and systems for improved supervisory practices. The second pilot will implement the findings of
the study to increase the role of private entities in environmental enforcement through the cost-effective
and closely controlled contracting out of specific steps in the enforcement processes. Overall control
would remain CEA's responsibility, while intermediate steps would be delegated to private or semi-private
firms and foundations. This would allow the selective tapping of expertise from outside the public sector
and would allow a flexible response to changing enforcement requirements. Assurance was obtained at
Negotiations that studies of staff incentives, private sector involvement, and an appropriate license fee
structure for CEA would commence no later than September 30, 1997 and that the GOSL wouldfurnish to
IDA no later than March 31, 1998, the action plans based on the results of the studies and would carry
out these plans after IDA review/approval (para. 6.1 (c)).
3.9    Joint ED/CEA Premises.  In order to increase the synergy between CEA and ED, the project
would support the construction of common office facilities to accommodate both entities. The existing
scattered set-up of MTEWA's environmental entities has been identified as a major cause of the current
disconnection between policy setting and enforcement, low staff morale, and limited impact of the NEAP
on sector work. Grouping the ED and CEA under one roof would be especially important for the success
of the present project which would lead to the increased size of ED and to covenanted actions that have to
be undertaken in close collaboration between the two groups8. The final design of the joint premises,
satisfactory to IDA, have been completed.
3.10    Environmental Monitoring System.  To  promote more efficient collection and analysis of
environmental monitoring data, develop a national environmental monitoring network that meets the
requirements of MTEWA's enforcement responsibilities and develop CEA's role as hub of the monitoring
network, the project would finance technical assistance to promote development of an integrated
environmental monitoring and information network for Sri Lanka, including: (a) a monitoring network
design exercise keyed to enforcement priorities; (b) on-the-job training for MTEWA staff and other
participants in the network; and (c) an 18-month pilot monitoring exercise using the network design
(para. 3.32 & Annex 5). The system would be capable of (a) storing, displaying, and manipulating data
including Geographical Information System (GIS) data; (b) storing and displaying data to assist in the
management of the EIA, pollution control, and environmental monitoring tasks; (c) storing and
classifying industries in accordance with their pollution potential and providing, as far as is possible,
automation for the processing of environmental protection licenses; and (d) making provision for
publication of the available data.
3.11    Donor Coordination. To have better donor coordination in the environmental sector, the project
would provide a framework within which donor involvement on key policy and institutional issues
would be increased, and donor funding would be channeled to high priority activities. As part of the
8 The regrouping of ED and CEA under one roof would accommodate only the enviromnent-related entities of
MTEWA and will not be adversely affected by future shuffling of departnents between ministries, which is a
likely occurrence.



15
institutionalization of the NEAP process in combination with the public investment process, the Policy
Unit of ED would closely liaise with the donor community and involve them in deliberations on the policy
reform agenda and annual update of NEAP. The donor representatives would also be invited to attend
meetings of the Committee on Integrating Environment and Development Policy to review environment-
related activities in the PIP, NEAP, Policy Action Plan and the on-going investments.
3.12   NGOs. To improve information exchange with NGOs and better tap their potential contributions
to environmental management in Sri Lanka, the project would assist ED and CEA in developing and
implementing an NGO outreach program that would provide: (a) training for NGOs in technical,
managerial, and financial skills to contribute to activities under the six main NEAP subject areas, with
particular emphasis on local natural resource management activities and environmental education; (b)
opportunities for NGO representatives to participate in environmental policy and the NEAP updating
activities of ED; (c) opportunities for qualified NGOs to assist in local soil conservation programs and
related activities under the pilot land management component (see para. 4.11); and (d) coordination of the
release of environmental information by ED, CEA, and NGOs' environmental education programs, and
encouragement of expansion of NGOs' role in environmental education. As a condition of participation
in training offered under the project, NGOs have been asked to organize into thematic groups under the
six priority issues of the NEAP, through which they would communicate with ED and CEA. Assurances
were obtained at Negotiations that an NGO outreach program satisfactory to IDA would be finalized by
September 30, 1997, and implemented soon after (para. 6.1 (d)). This subcomponent would also improve
NGO capacity to qualify for grants under the CEIF component.
3.13    Policy Subcomponent. The objective of the policy component is to develop and institutionalize
a framework for the consideration of economic-environmental linkages in Sri Lanka. Toward this end,
the component will support (i) studies to further analyze the policy implications of economic-
environmental linkages at the macro- and sector-specific levels; (ii) dissemination of reports on the State
of Sri Lanka's Environment and an update of the NEAP (paras. 2.34 and 6.1 (b)); and (iii) workshops to
reinforce broad ownership and improve adherence to sound environmental principles, with participation
of government representatives and other concerned stakeholders.
3.14   Monitoring of Policy Agenda. GOSL has supplemented the policy letter of September 1, 1995
(Annex 9 [A9.9]) by a Policy Action Plan satisfactory to IDA (Annex 2). Both documents will assist the
government in reviewing macro- and sector-wide policies with impact on the environment. The policy
letter spells out the institutional and legal changes and broadly sets out the policy changes required for
sound environmental management. Moreover, the policy letter would serve as a vehicle for updating the
needed measures as well as a framework for the dialogue with donors. These policies would form an
integral part of the ongoing IDA-assisted projects and IDA's policy dialogue with the government.
Community Environment Initiatives Facility (CEIF) (US$4.7 million)
3.15   The main objective of the CEIF is to involve communities through participatory methods in
implementing demonstration environmental activities, providing facilities to train local communities in
participatory work in the field of environment and conservation, and undertaking activities within the
priority areas of the updated NEAP. This component was designed after demand for such a fund was
confirmed by a series of MTEWA-NGO consultations. It is built on the experience gained and lessons
learned from other similar arrangements elsewhere (Annex 9 [A9. 6]).
3.16   Proiect Selection Criteria. The fund will seek proposals in the six program areas listed in the
updated NEAP (para. 2.34) from local government institutions, community groups and NGOs, and
research organizations. These subprojects would include the improved management of degraded and
unproductive lands, improved management of water and water catchments, community participation in
solid and domestic waste collection, improved management of wetlands (coastal, freshwater, and marine
resources), deforestation, improved management of stream reservations, and environmental education and
mass awareness programs.



16
3.17    Eligibility Criteria. The following summarizes the eligibility criteria that are proposed for the
activities. Details are in the operational manual for the implementation of the CEIF which has been
prepared by MTEWA and reviewed by IDA (para 4.9).
* would make a contribution to growth and sustainable economic development;
* should be cost-effective and should have a satisfactory rate of return if quantifiable;
* would help solve a critical environmental problem;
* would mitigate losses of natural resources;
* would be capable of replication and/or expansion and have a demonstration effect;
local government and community groups would meet at least 20% of the cost of the activity,
either as labor, cash and/or material;
* would test new and innovative approaches and technologies;
* the beneficiaries would meet the maintenance cost on completion of activity;
* would be technically sound and technologically simple;
* would be undertaken by trained personnel; and
* would have a significant poverty alleviation component.
3.18    Special Conditions. (i) For the first twelve months, the emphasis would be on proposals for
training in skills to prepare and manage activities (financial management, human resource development,
community organization, and management of groups) and 30% of the funds approved would be for such
training; (ii) not more than 5% of approvals in any calendar year should be for testing new and innovative
approaches; (iii) expenditures would be supported by an audit of accounts by a recognized firm of
auditors; (iv) proposals would not cause involuntary resettlement of people; and (v) activities would be
subjected to environmental review highlighting the environmental benefits and possible risks. The
minimum subproject amount would be the equivalent of US$5,000 and the maximum amount would be
US$100,000. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that the criteria and conditions in this para and
in para 3.17 would be observed (para 6.1 (e)).
Pilot Land Management Component (US$3.5 million)
3.19    The  objectives of the pilot land management component are to: (i) test and develop on a
watershed basis suitable technologies for minimizing the extent of land degradation, thereby increasing
agricultural productivity as well as reducing the risk of erosion and its associated on-farm and off-farm
impacts; (ii) examine feasibility of participatory management of microwatersheds by the beneficiaries;
and (iii) define technical and investment criteria useful in replicating watershed development activities in
other hilly areas.
3.20    The pilot activities will be carried out in the hilly wet zone area of Sri Lanka's mid- and upper
country of the Central Province. They will cover ten representative microcatchments (MCs)
(600 to 1,000 ha each) selected in subwatersheds to cover an optimal range of micro-agroecological
environments (with varying rainfall, slope, and soil conditions). The project adopts a holistic and
participatory approach to involve local population as beneficiaries from the planning stage through
implementation and assessment of project results. The project will cover activities on the farmer's field,
and all off-farm  land within the microwatersheds.  Key elements of the project strategy focus on
stabilizing upland farming by increased control over resources.
3.21    The range of interventions in arable land will incorporate elements of the Sloping Agricultural
Land Technology (SALT) by encouraging the planting of leguminous shrubs, grasses (including vetiver),
and tree crops along the bunds of existing terraces, or along contours in unterraced lands. These soil
stabilization and moisture retention treatments will complement mixed farming systems of food crops,
fruit and timber trees, and estate crops. Treatments on non-arable land (range lands, wastelands,
degraded forests) and natural drainage courses will include measures such as vegetative fencing,



17
stabilization through vegetative contour barriers, contour furrowing, diversion drains, gully control, and
bank stabilization through vegetative measures, storage, and management of run off in natural
depressions/partially dug out structures with low dams to promote the recharge of groundwater and
decongest blocked drainage lines.
3.22    Adaptive Research. A flexible approach would be followed for adaptive research covering in situ
vegetative soil and moisture conservation measures, with new topics added as appropriate. Research
activities would include: (i) run off trials to estimate soil losses from arable and non-arable land on
varying slopes and (ii) demonstrations and cost-effectiveness testing of various bioengineering approaches
to soil and water conservation.
3.23    Studies. Provision would be made under the project for a baseline study incorporating a survey
that would be undertaken by a consultant group (paras. 3.32). The appointment of the consultants for the
baseline study would be a condition of Effectiveness (para. 3.32 and 6.2 (a)). Provision is also made
under the project for studies that are relevant and useful to the overall goals of the land component.
3.24    To support these works, the project will provide funds to meet the costs of land use mapping,
land use planning, crop inputs, seedlings, vegetative and mechanical treatments, demonstration plots,
mass awareness, training, vehicles, equipment, consultancy services, incremental staff, and operating
costs. To ensure the provision of high-quality planting materials, as well as to diminish transportation
problems, the project will also support the development of village-based nurseries.
E.     Project Costs and Financing
3.25    Cost Estimates. The total project cost over the five-year period (FY98-FY02) is estimated to be
Rs. 1322 million (US$20.7 million) with a foreign exchange component of Rs.494.4 million or 37%. This
amount includes a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$1.1 million to finance start-up
activities before project commencement. Project base costs are estimated at US$18.65 million; physical
contingencies are estimated to be US$0.80 million, and price contingencies are estimated to be US$1.30
million. Base costs though originally expressed at December 1995 price levels have been revised in
December 1996 to reflect price escalation during the last one year. The base costs include duties and taxes
estimated at US$1.70 million. For the most part, the base cost estimates reflect the expenditures of
comparable government agency operations, including  staff training, technical assistance, studies,
construction contracts, and vehicle and equipment purchases. Consultant service costs are based on recent
contracts for similar services in Sri Lanka. The cost estimates include allowances for physical
contingencies of 15% for civil works and 10% for machinery, equipment, and materials. The cost
estimates also include allowances for price escalations during the implementation period based on IDA
estimates for domestic and foreign inflation rates as shown in Table 3.1, and assume that exchange rates
would be maintained at purchasing power parity.
Table 3.1: Annual Inflation
1 FY98    FY99       FY00       FYOI0    FY02
iDomestic Costs                        10.0        8.4        7.0       6.5        6.5
International Costs                    2.3       2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3
Table 3.2 summarizes project cost estimates for the various project components while Annex 3, Tables 1-7
give details of these costs and the proposed allocation of credit funds.



18
Table 3.2: Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
Project Components     Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total   Foreign    of Base
(Rs. Million)               (US$ '000s)          Exchange   Costs
Institutional Strengthening
Envirornent Division     85.26    82.22    167.48      1.55     1.50      3.05     49          16
CEA                     229.30   155.40    384.70      4.17     2.82      6.99     40          38
Policy Subcomponent       5.83    50.83     56.66      0.11     0.92       1.03     90          6
Subtotal      320.39   288,45    608.84      5.83     5.24     11.07     47          59
Community Environmental
Initiatives Facility    175.78    63.53    239.31      3.20     1.16      4.35      27         23
Pilot Land Management     144.71    32.97    177.68      2.63     0.60       3.23     19         17
Total Baseline Cost       640.88   384.95    1,025.84    11.65    7.00      18.65     38        100
Physical Contingencies   26.63    17.21     43.84      0.48     0.31      0.80      39          4
Price Contingencies     160.39    92.27    252.66      0.88     0.43       1.31     33          7
Total Project Costa       827.90   494.43    1322.34    13.02     7.74     20.76      37
' Including taxes and duties estimated at US$ 1.7 equivalent
3.26    Financin . Table 3.3 shows the proposed project financing plan. IDA, GOSL, and the local
communities would jointly finance the project. IDA would provide a credit of SDR 10.7 million (US$14.8
million), local communities Rs.157.2 million (US$2.5 million), which would be in labor, material or
cash, and GOSL the remaining Rs.218.5 million (US$3.4 million) including the financing of taxes. The
IDA credit would finance 71% of project costs, including 100% of foreign exchange costs and 70% of
local costs. Excluding duties, taxes, and community contributions, IDA would finance 90% of project
costs.
Table 3.3: Project Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
Category                IDA          GOSL        Communities        Total
Funds
Civil Works                        2.67         0.30           0.02            3.00
Field Works                        0.71         0.03           1.67            2.42
Vehicles                           0.68         1.11           0.00            1.79
Materials, Equipment               1.03         0.18           0.00            1.20
Office Furniture                   0.11         0.01           0.00            0.12
Technical Assistance               2.98         0.00           0.00            2.98
Training                           1.17         0.00           0.00             1.17
Studies                            1.04         0.00           0.00            1.04
Facility/Fund                      2.37         1.05           0.82            4.24
Incremental Recurrent Costs        2.04         0.76           0.00            2.80
Total                             14.80         3.43           2.53           20.76
Percent                           71.00        16.50          12.50          100.00
Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$1.70 million. Financing amnounts are rounded to nearest
$10,000.
F.      Procurement
3.27    Table 3.4 summarizes the project's proposed procurement arrangements, while the following
paragraphs describe them in more detail.



19
Table 3.4: Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions) *
Procurement Method
Project Element         ICB       NCB       Consulting Services    Other**   NBF***   TOTAL
Civil Works                             2.90                             0.10                    3.00
(2.60)                           (0.07)                 (2.67)
Field Works                                                              0.75        1.67        2.42
(0.71)                 (0.71)
Vehicles                      1.29      0.50                                                     1.79
._____________________  (0.48)    (0.20)                                                   (0.68)
Material, Equipment           1.02                                       0.23                    1.25
and Office Furniture       (0.96)                                      (0.13)                 (1.09)
Field Equipment                         0.07                                                     0.07
(0.05)                                                  (0.05)
Technical Assistance
Policy Support                                       0.55
Implement. Support                                   1.61
Capacity Building                                    0.82
Subtotal                                             2.98                                   2.98
(2.98)                                 (2.98)
Studies                                                  1.04                                    1.04
________            (1.04)                                 (1.04)
Training                                                                 1.17                    1.17
_______                             (1.17)                 (1.17)
Facility/Fund                                                            3.42        0.82        4.24
(2.37)                 (2.37)
Incremental    Recurrent                                                 2.80                    2.80
Costs                     .                                      _      (2.04)                  (2.04)
Total                        2.31       3.47             4.02            8,47        2.49       20.76
_____________________ _  _(1.46)  (2.85)           (4.02)          (6.49)                (14.80)
*    Includes taxes and duties. Figures are rounded to the nearest USS100,000. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts
financed by the IDA credit.
**  Includes force account, international and national shopping, training and project management expenditures.
*** Not Bank financed.
3.28    Procurement will involve: civil works; vehicles, equipment, and materials; technical assistance,
special studies, and training and incremental recurrent costs.  Procurement arrangements for these
categories would be as follows.
3.29    Civil Works (US$3.00 million).  This would include the construction of an office complex for
MTEWA's ED and CEA (US$2.90 million) and farmers' centers for the land management component
(US$0.10 million). The amount of civil works is small and, as such, is not expected to attract any foreign
contractors. The civil works for the office building will be undertaken following National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures satisfactory and acceptable to IDA. Farmers' centers would be constructed
following force account procedures. It has been agreed with GOSL that MTEWA would use IDA's
Standard Bidding Document for Works.
3.30    Field Works (US$2.42 million excluding CEIF). Field works would include soil conservation
works (gully plugging, stone terracing, checking dams, planting of vegetative hedges), adaptive research
trials, and demonstration plots. These works are small and scattered, undertaken at many sites, and in



20
several instances require close supervision by Departmental staff. For these reasons MAL&F would
execute field works by force account.
3.31    Vehicles. equipment, and materials (US$3.11 million excluding CEIF). Vehicles for the project
consist of four-wheel drive jeeps, cars, vans and motorcycles. Vehicles to an estimated value of US$1.79
million and equipment (US$1.25 million), consisting of laboratory equipment, computers, printers,
related goods and furniture, will be procured through a single contract or contracts grouped into a
homogenous package, using International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The procuring agencies would use
IDA's standard ICB bidding documents for goods 9. Field equipment (US$0.07 million) would be
procured through NCB. Contract packages valued at less than US$100,000 but more than US$50,000, up
to an aggregate value of US$0.2 million to be financed by IDA, would be procured using NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Goods and materials valued at less than US$50,000, but in aggregate amounting to
not more than US$0.2 million to be financed by IDA, would be procured through local shopping, based
on price quotations from at least three different suppliers. This level of shopping would be needed
because of the number of agencies involved in project implementation, each with specific and differing
needs. For goods under ICB, qualifying domestic suppliers would be eligible for a margin of preferences
in the comparison of bids of 15% (15% of the CIF cost of imported items or the applicable customs duty
and other related import taxes, whichever is less).
3.32    Consultant Services, Studies, and Training.10  Consultants' services (US$2.98 million)  and
studies (US$1.04 million) would be procured according to IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Roughly US$1.40
million would be internationally recruited. Foreign and local training (US$1.17 million) would be
administered in accordance with annual training programs agreed with IDA. TORs and recruitment
schedule for the technical assistance, including studies (paras. 3.8, 3.10, 3.13, 3.23, 4.14) and the
training and research programs assistance (paras. 3.6, 3.8) satisfactory to the Association have been
prepared. The appointment of major consultancies would be a condition of Effectiveness. This includes
consultancies for: (i) contracting out CEA's activities; (ii) salary structure and license fees; (iii)
policy/planning assistance; (iv) CEA's license backlog; and (v) the baseline survey and monitoring the
work relating to land use mapping and planning; and community group formation for the land
management component (Annex 4 and paras. 4.14 and 6.2 (a).
3.33    Community Environment Initiative Facility  (CEIF) (US$4.24 million). CEIF is designed to
provide funds to local communities, NGOs, and local-level authorities for undertaking activities within
the priority areas. CEIF would finance small works in widely scattered villages. The procurement
method for CEIF would follow the applicable procedures for the various types of goods as set forth above.
3.34    Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$2.80 million). Project expenditures on incremental operating
costs (US$2.80 million, including salaries and allowances; operating and maintenance costs of vehicles,
equipment, and civil works; and administrative overheads) would also be procured following normnal
government procedures. IDA, however, would only disburse against incremental staff salaries and
operational and maintenance expenditures for vehicles and civil works.
9   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Procurement Guidelines, the proceeds of the Interim
Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods and work provided by nationals of,
and produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not
Participating Countries and bidders offering goods and works form such countries shall be disqualified from
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
0  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultants Guidelines, only consultants form
Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund
Credit



21
3.35   IDA's Prior Review. The following would be subject to IDA's prior review: (a) contracts
awarded on the basis of ICB procedures; (b) contracts for works and goods in excess of US$200,000
equivalent; (c) consultant contracts in excess of US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000
equivalent for individuals; and (d) foreign training programs. However, with respect to all consulting
contracts, irrespective of value, prior IDA review would be required for the terms of reference and
selection procedures. The IDA staff would selectively post review about 10% of the awarded contracts
(including bid evaluations) that are below the threshold levels. The Director, Project Coordination in
MTEWA would be responsible for all procurement matters. To avoid delays, procurement plans for Year
1 and Year 2 have been prepared and are acceptable to IDA. Procurement information would be included
in periodical progress implementation reports to be submitted by MTEWA. Annex 4, Tables 2-4 show
the project implementation schedule including procurement.
G.     Disbursements
3.36   IDA credit of US$14.8 million would be disbursed over a period of five years, beginning in the
last quarter of FY97, through the end of the last quarter of IDA FY02. For the proposed project, costs
would be linked to project implementation plans (through the use of Computerized Project Management
(para. 4.18)) in order to develop realistic forecasts of cash flow requirements. The disbursement schedule
shown in Annex 3, Table 9 is based on completion of the proposed project by June 30, 2002. The total
disbursement period for the project is expected to be about five years after credit approval. The proceeds
of the credit would be disbursed as shown in Table 3.5.
Table 3.5: Proposed Disbursement Schedule
Category                                     Percentage to be Financed
(a)  civil works (other than field works)  90% of expenditures
(b) field works and soil conservation    70 % of expenditures
(c)  Vehicles, motorcycles, equipment,   100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of
furniture, and materials            local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80%
for locally procured equipment
(d)  Consultant services, training, and  100% of expenditures on consultant services,
studies                             training, and studies
(e)  Operating costs of ED, CEA, and     90 % of expenditures
MAL&F
(f)  Incremental staff salaries and allowances, Salaries would be funded according to a
of ED and CEA                       declining basis starting at 90% financing until
December 31, 1998, 70% financing until
December 31, 1999, 50% financing until
December 31, 2001, and 25% until the project
completion date
3.37   IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) for (a) civil works and
goods contracts below US$200,000 equivalent; (b) consultant services for firms for contracts below
US$100,000 and individual contracts below US$50,000; and (c) local training, field works; and
incremental staff salaries, allowances, and operating costs. Disbursement applications for all other items
would be fully documented. Supporting documentation for SOEs would not be submitted to IDA, but
would be retained by GOSL and made available to IDA staff during supervision.



22
3.38    Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements, the
Government would establish and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, one Special
Account in the Central Bank. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that (i) a Special Account
would be established and held in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and (ii) MTEWA will be responsible for
channeling funds directly to all the implementing agencies including the Central Provincial Council,
Land Use Policy Planning Unit and Natural Resources Management Unit (para. 6.1 69). The Special
Account would cover the Bank's share of eligible project expenditures in all disbursement categories. The
Special Account would be denominated in US Dollars, with an authorized allocation of US$1.2 million;
however, the authorized allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$700,000 until
disbursements and outstanding commitments against the credit equal or exceed SDR 4.0 million.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account supported by appropriate documentation would be
submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn
equal 50% of the initial deposit. The Account would be operated and managed by the Director,
Coordination, MTEWA who would have responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications and
have sole responsibility for submitting the withdrawal applications to IDA for payment.
3.39   Project Preparation Facility (PPF). A PPF of US$1.1 million has been approved to complete
several up-front actions by MTEWA, CEA, and MAL&F before Board presentation. There is a need to
build up the capacity of the implementing agencies to develop realistic plans, programs, designs, and
initiate training plans before project commencement. Funds to reimburse this advance would be disbursed
from this credit upon its effectiveness.
H.     Auditing and Reporting
3.40   Accounts. MTEWA would establish and maintain  a separate project account with a local
commercial bank giving breakdowns for civil works; vehicles and equipment; consulting services,
technical assistance, and training. MTEWA would have the overall responsibility arranging annual audits
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The annual audited statements of project accounts including
SOEs, Special Account, and the Project Account would be submitted to IDA within six months after the
close of each fiscal year. The project accounting system would record: (a) funds advanced periodically to
the various project units for program development expenditures; and (b) expenditures on identifiable
schemes, including agency overhead payments. The sub-accounts would be used to meet operational
expenses such as purchase of supplies and payment of field allowances and would receive advances from
the Project Account, based on approved work programs and budgets. Replenishment of the sub-accounts
from the Project Account would be made only on receipt of all documented expenses as approved by the
Head of the implementing agency concerned.
3.41    Audit. The records and accounts of all implementing agencies would be audited annually.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all project accounts and financial statements,
including Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account, would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Assurances were also obtained during Negotiations that a copy of the audit report
and a certified copy of the financial statements would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after
the close of each fiscal year (para. 6.1 (g)).
I.     Environment
3.42    This project would address the two major areas of environmental management: (i) proactive
environmental processes: ensuring a sustainable NEAP process and its integration in the overall
development planning of Sri Lanka, the project would allow the identification of investment opportunities
that are important for their sustainability/environmental merit that might not necessarily be identified
through 'traditional" development planning processes; and (ii) impact assessment processes: by
supporting government delivery of impact assessment services, the project would lead to an improved
consideration of the environmental impacts of public and private investments. The project emphasis on



23
institutional development and policy action would therefore lead to long-term environmental benefits that
have a potential to improve the decision-making process toward sustainable development. Most
environmental benefits under these two components would span beyond the life of this 5-year project.
3.43   The two investment components would lead to demonstrable and measurable improvement in
environmental conditions. CEIF would promote environmental management in both rural and urban
environments, for the most vulnerable of people, who are arguably the first victims of environmental
degradation. By targeting CEIF resources to environmental problems in low-income areas, the project
would increase the probability of having funds reach the most important environmental hot spots with
respect to their impact on health and living conditions of the poor. By using a grass-roots, participatory
approach to environmental rehabilitation, the project would increase the impact and sustainability of these
actions. Finally, the investments in land management, by stressing low-cost, vegetative approaches to land
rehabilitation, would lead to measurable improvement in the land-carrying capacity and reduce the
adverse impact of soil erosion both on-site and downstream of rehabilitated areas.



24
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.     Coordination
4.1    MTEWA would be responsible for overall coordination of project implementation and would be
IDA's main contact regarding implementation. MTEWA would have principal responsibility for the
institutional strengthening component including the policy subcomponent (in close collaboration with
MFP). The MAL&F would be responsible for the pilot land management component. NGOs and
communities would also play an important part in the planning and implementation of the land
management component and CEIF. A Steering Committee (SC), headed by the Secretary, MTEWA,
would meet once every three months to ensure coordinated implementation of project activities. The
inter-sectoral nature of many environmental concerns and the diverse information required for effective
management mean, inevitably, that several agencies have to be involved in the steering of overall
environmental policy work, including this project. A Committee on Integrating Environment and
Development Policy (CIEDP), chaired by the Secretary, MFP as well as Secretary, MTEWA, would meet
once a year to review environment-related activities in the PIP, NEAP, Policy Action Plan, and this
project. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that the SC and the CIEDP with membership,
responsibilities, and resources satisfactory to IDA would be established by July 31, 1997, and
maintained after that (6.1 (h)).
B.     Implementation
4.2    Implementation arrangements are summarized below and detailed in Annex 4.
Institutional Strengthenin
4.3    Ministry of Transport, Environment and Women's Affairs.  The ED of MTEWA would be
restructured under the existing two Additional Secretary positions (see Annex 8, Chart 1). One Additional
Secretary would be responsible for the development of environmental policies and programs through small
professional Directorates focused on a range of environmental sectors.  For studies on economic-
environmental linkages (para 3.13), the Additional Secretary will head a multi-disciplinary committee to
finalize, subcontract and monitor the execution of priorities studies identified during project preparation
(Annex 4). The other Additional Secretary would be responsible for administration of the ED and for
monitoring and evaluating the extent to which national environmental policy is being effectively
implemented. The ED's main functions are described in para 3.5. The project would support an increase
in the cadre of professional and technical officers from the present level of 12 (10 in-situ) to 27. The
project would also support consultants to assist MTEWA implementing and managing the project. The
recruitment schedule is summarized in Table 4.1, and detailed in Annex 4, fig. 1.
4.4    Central Environmental Authoritv. CEA would be restructured into three Divisions, each under a
Deputy Director General (Annex 4, fig. 2-5 and Annex 8, Charts 2-5). This action should lead to a
stronger management structure as well as clearer career path opportunities for staff. The two core
functions of CEA are the environmental assessment of new proposals and the control and prevention of
pollution from existing activities.  These functions both involve two major tasks: pre-operational
assessment and post-operational enforcement. These two tasks would be integrated under one Deputy
Director General (DDG) for pollution control matters and under a second DDG for the management and
evaluation of environmental impact assessment. The latter DDG would also be responsible for a small
research and project management group. The third DDG would be responsible for the environmental
promotion and public awareness program together with the administrative and financial functions.
Included in this functional area is a need for immediate development of a strong human resource
management ability to spearhead the recruitment of professional and technical staff, initially to fill
existing vacancies and thereafter to increase the staffing level to that necessary for CEA to effectively



25
carry out its functions. The project would support an increase of cadre of professional and technical
officers from the present level of 87 (63 in-situ) to 135.
4.5    The staff changes envisaged for CEA can be summarized as follows: (i) recruitment of 24 staff
into already approved positions; (ii) upgrading of 8 existing cadre positions (Annex 4, fig. 6); and (iii)
depending on the outcome of contracting-out and fee restructuring studies, (para 3.8), creation and
recruitment of up to 48 professional and technical positions which would be funded by increases in
environmental protection license fees. The recruitment schedule is summarized in Table 4. 1 and detailed
in Annex 4, fig. 2-5.
4.6    Assurances were obtained at Negotiation that ED and CEA would recruit the additional staff
according to the following timetable (para. 6.1 (i)).
Table 4.1: Proposed Recruitment Schedule
Recruitment Process                            Dates
MTEWA's ED
.  Recruit 9 professional/technical staff        September 30, 1997
*  Recruit 6 professional/technical staff        January 31, 1998
.  Recruit 2 professional/technical staff        January 31, 1999
CEA
.  Fill existing approved positions (24 positions)  July 31, 1997
*  Obtain approval for additional 48 positions   September 30, 1998
.  Recruit 19 professional/technical staff*      December 31, 1998
.  Recruit 19 professional/technical staff*      December 31, 1999
*  Recruit 10 professional/technical staff*      December 31, 2000
[* subject to the outcome of contracting out study]
Community Environment Initiatives Facility
4.7    Administration. MTEWA would be responsible for the administration of the Facility. MTEWA
has called through media announcements for proposals from local government agencies, NGOs, approved
societies, and research organizations.
4.8    A Committee, with membership and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, has been
appointed for the administration and management of the Facility.  The Committee consists of the
Secretary, MTEWA (Chairman), Secretary, MFP, one representative of NGOs involved in environment
and conservation, one representative from research or the academic community with interest in
environmental issues, and one other representative from the private sector. The ED would be responsible
for the overall coordination.
4.9    Implementation. MTEWA has prepared an operational manual satisfactory to IDA that outlines
the procedures to be followed in operation of the Facility and guidelines to applicants. The local
government authorities, NGOs, approved societies or research organizations would identify, prepare,
implement and manage the subprojects. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that the Committee
would (a) make a selection of the subprojects only after having an evaluation of such proposals carried
out by consultants, recruited in accordance with IDA guidelines, provided that the evaluation of the first
five proposals reviewed, and all subsequent proposals for subprojects estimated to cost $200,000
equivalent or more, will have been furnished to the Association for its approval prior to submission to the
Committee; (b) ensure that all proposals selected to be financed meet eligibility criteria agreed with the
Association, including, without limitation, the following: (i) the participating organizations proposed to
carry out the subprojects are local government authorities, non-governmental organizations, approved



26
societies or research organizations, provided that such organizations shall (A) have at least two years of
experience dealing with environmental issues and in organizing and assisting community groups, and (B)
have adequate administrative, financial and managerial capacity; (ii) contribution of participating
organizations of at least 20% either in cash or in kind; (iii) no involuntary resettlement is involved; and
(iv) environmental benefits and risks have been assessed; (c) prepare participation agreements, inform
and substance satisfactory to IDA, setting out the responsibilities of MTEWA and the various
participating organizations for implementing and supervising the selected proposals; and (d) hire
services of specialists to carry out detailed evaluation of CEIF on the average of twice a year (para.
6.10)).
4.10    CEIF Account.  For the first year a block allocation of the equivalent of US$0.2 million has
been made by GOSL through budgetary sources into the sub-account maintained by MTEWA. IDA would
replenish the Facility upon submission of a withdrawal application. GOSL would contribute a further
US$0.5 million twelve months later and the IDA contribution would be US$2.37 million. Other donors
would also be invited to contribute to the Fund. The implementing agencies would be required to maintain
separate accounts for the funds received and expenditures incurred.
Pilot Land Management Component
4.11    Microcatchments (MCs) have been identified during project preparation. In view of the varying
gradients, rainfall, and soil conditions in the hill country, a representative mix of MCs has been selected
for this pilot to test appropriate technologies and treatments. Project implementation would be through
an interactive planning process (see Annex 4 for details), whereby implementing agencies work together
with beneficiaries to prepare and implement a plan for the MC. Villagers, backed by technical advice
provided by the Field Extension Team,"' would select site specific interventions as appropriate.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) five MC plans, sufficient for the first year's project
implementation and approved by the Provincial Steering Committee (PSC),12 would be prepared no later
than September 30, 1997, (ii) five more such plans sufficient for the second year's project implementation
would be prepared no later than April 30, 1998; all such plans to be satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.1 (k)).
4.12    The MAL&F would be responsible for the execution of the pilot activities in close consultation
and collaboration with MTEWA, the Department of Agriculture (DOA), and the Provincial Ministry of
Agriculture (PDA) (see Annex 8, Chart 7). There would be a sub-Committee (Land Steering Committee
[LSC]) of the SC, chaired by the Secretary MAL&F to review progress of the land component. At the
provincial level, the NRMC and PDA in close consultation with and assistance from LUPPD and the PSC
would be responsible for the implementation of the pilot activities. The PSC would be served by the
Provincial Implementation Unit.13 Provincial implementation units would appoint MC planning teams.
MC would be the center piece of the organizational structure.  MC teams would be responsible for
coordination of MC fieldwork (joint interactive planning of selected treatments options). MC teams
would include the relevant Field Extension Team members (on a part-time basis), the provincial staff
assigned to the project, one additional catalyst/500 ha, and one additional senior catalyst per 10 catalysts
on a full-time basis. The project would provide for a Specialist in Natural Resources Management (NRM)
Field Extension Team comprising Agricultural Instructors (Al) from the Provincial Department of Agriculture
(Provincial DOA), AI from the Inter-provincial Schemes, Livestock Development Instructors, Extension Officers
from the Department of Export Agriculture, and the Coconut Development Officers from the Cultivation Board
have been established under the Second Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 2380-CE).
12  PSC chaired by the Chief Secretary Provincial Council and comprising senior representatives of the MAL&F
and MTEWA, the Director General Agriculture, and the Directors NRMC and LUPPD of the MAL&F,
representatives of NGOs/Communities, and the private sector.
'3  The Provincial Implementation Unit (PIU) will consist of Provincial Director for Agriculture, the Provincial
Director of Animal Production and Health, the Divisional Secretary , a representative of a leading NGO, and a
representative of the fanning community, supplemented by technical personnel.



27
and an accountant. The NRM specialist would be posted in the Central Provincial Council and would be
responsible for the day-to-day implementation and operation of the component under the supervision of
the Chief Secretary Central Province, Provincial Council.
4.13    Conditions of Disbursement would be: (a) a Memorandum of Understanding, satisfactory to
IDA, between MTEWA, MAL&F and Provincial Department of Agriculture (PDA) of the Central
Province shall have been concluded and entered into effect; (b) the LSC shall has been established; (c) the
Natural Resource Management Specialist and catalysts required for the first year's implementation
program have been recruited and (d) the standard 30 year lease agreement requiring lessees to carry out
land management practices satisfactory to the Forestry Department and IDA is in effect (para. 6.3). In
addition, assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOSL will ensure that its Forestry Department
extend the term of existing permit holders on reservations for a minimum period offive years subject to
the lessee carrying out the management practices stipulated (paras. 6.1 (1) and 6. 3).
4.14    Consultancies would be provided to the PDA to monitor the work relating to participatory land
use mapping and planning, and community group formation (user groups and farmer organization and in
participatory plan formulation). The appointment of the consultants would be a condition of Effectiveness
(para. 4.16 & 6.2 (a)). Formal training organized by the Human Resources Development Center of the
DOA with the assistance of the NRMC and the PDA would be provided to the project team members and
catalysts at the Inservice Training Institute, Gannorouwa.  The farmer training would be done in
community centers and District Training Centers in the Province.
4.15    Role of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). NGOs would be encouraged to participate in
project implementation. Because several NGOs have considerable experience with community
development, they could help in at least four ways: (i) by extending informal advice to staff from the line
agencies upon request; (ii) by conducting training courses for line agency staff, under contract, to teach
methods of participatory assessment in villages preferences; (iii) by designing and implementing, under
contract, systems for monitoring and evaluating baseline status and project progress; and (iv) by
implementing, under contract, a MC plan. NGOs are currently active in the project area and funds have
been specifically allocated for NGO assistance under the project budget.
C.     Implementation Schedule
4.16   The implementation schedule in Annex 4 shows the key events of project implementation. It
includes a time-bound detailed implementation plan (Tables 1-4) and an indication of the Project's
supervision requirements (Table 5). To ensure the timely start-up of the institutional strengthening
component the appointment of major consultancies is a condition of Effectiveness. To ensure timely start
of CEIF, media announcements calling for proposals and the appointment of the committee responsible
for the administration of the Facility have been made. Regarding the timely start of the implementation of
the land component, the appointment of consultants is a condition of Effectiveness. MC planning would
start soon after Credit Effectiveness. Concerning the supervision requirements, assurances were obtained
at Negotiations that two in-depth reviews would be jointly carried out by GOSL and IDA. The first
would be undertaken by September 30, 1998 and the second by June 30, 2000. Also, three third-party
supervisions would also be carried out during the life of the project (para 6.1 (m)).
D.     Monitoring
4.17   Indicators. The project would have a set of monitorable indicators to measure the degree of (i)
attainment of project objectives and (ii) efficiency of project implementation. A list of monitorable
indicators covering all project components, satisfactory to IDA, has been agreed with GOSL at
Negotiations (para. 6. 1 (n) and Annex 6). The list of indicators differentiates between input, process,
output, and impact indicators. ED, assisted by technical assistance, would be responsible for overall
project monitoring (para 3.6).



28
4.18    Manapement Information System. The project will support the establishment of a computer-
based Project Management Information System (PMIS). PMIS will be based on an integrated set of
personal computer software applications that will facilitate the management of financial, temporal, and
spatial information.14    ED, CEA, and NRMC  will be expected to establish such capabilities.
14  A typical software configuration for this purpose will include a computerized project management software such
as MicroSoft Project and a financial management package such as Quicken. In addition, a desktop Geographical
Information System (GIS) package such as ATLAS-GIS would be used for the land management component.
Alternatives configurations would also be considered.



29
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
Overall Project Benefits.
5.1    The proposed project is the initial 5-year phase of an expected long-term program that would
assist Sri Lanka to meet its environmental challenges through proper institutional and policy changes, as
well as through investments in environmental protection and conservation activities at the local level.
Estimates during project preparation indicate that the annual costs of environmental degradation in just
four areas (soil, forests, energy, and coastal resources) amount to more than 2.5% of Sri Lanka's GNP.'5
These are the costs of inaction and provide an indication of the potential benefits to be drawn from
investments to address environmental problems. The order of magnitude of this degradation underscores
the urgency of corrective actions.   Policy actions, institutional strengthening and site-specific
rehabilitation activities should provide substantial benefits. These benefits would extend well beyond the
five-year project period.
5.2    The proposed project would put in place a process that would generate efficiency gains through
the improved allocation of resources for sustainable development. Specifically, the project would: (a) help
GOSL meet its environmental challenges by strengthening the policy formulation process and through
institutional, operational, and regulatory changes; (b) support more sustainable development through
integration of environmental objectives with broader development goals; (c) provide through institutional
strengthening a focal entity for environment policy, planning, and coordination and the institutional basis
for regulatory and enforcement activities; (d) provide health benefits especially in areas affected by
industrial and mining pollution through improved environmental monitoring and regulation; (e) improve
the productivity and income of small and marginal farmers and reduce reservoir siltation through cost-
effective land management in the hilly wet zone area; and (f) provide local communities through CEIF
with a facility to implement high priority environmental and conservation activities within NEAP.
5.3    Institutional strengthening and the policy reform component is by far the largest component in
the project. The benefits of this component are diffused and cannot be quantified. However, the
institutional strengthening approach supported by the project resulted from an economic analysis that
tested its low-cost characteristic as well as its financial sustainability (Annex 7). The benefits of the
proposed CEIF activities are unknown at this stage, but eligibility criteria, acceptable to IDA, will ensure
that these activities are economically efficient and financially sustainable (para 3.17). A quantitative
assessment of the land management component has been undertaken and the results of the analyses are
summarized below and included in detail as part of Annex 7. A brief qualitative description of benefits
for all components is presented in Table 5.1.
5  Sri Lanka: Environmental Action 1 Project, Project Preparation Report, Vol. 1, June 1994. A  recent report
published for the World Bank estimates annual environmental degradation to be around 10% and above
(reaching 17% in Nigeria) of GNP of developing countries. Pearce and Warford, 1993 World Without End,
WorldBank/Oxford Press.



30
Table 5.1: Overall Project Benefits
Component                                Benefits
Institutional Strengthening      Help formulate and adopt improved regulatory
Component                        systems and enforcement mechanisms for both air
and water pollution prevention and abatement;
strengthen environmental impact assessments
thereby helping to reduce the environmental costs
of public and private investments; improve
licensing procedures thereby minimizing environ-
mental damage; assist in the development of an
NGO outreach program to increase mass
awareness; and develop an information reporting
system.
Policy Subcomponent              Help GOSL achieve sustainable development by
reviewing macro-and-sector policies that impact
on the environment; design instruments to capture
environmental externalities; and promote adoption
of 'Win-win" policies at the macro-level and
enforce regulations; and generate data needed for
the refinement of policy/economic instruments.
Community Environment Initiative   Improve management capacities at the local level
Facility                         and broaden  understanding  and  support for
environmental protection to improve the quality of
the environment for the urban and rural people.
Pilot Land Management Component  Reduce soil erosion and reservoir siltation; improve
hydrology; increase agricultural output; and
improve rural incomes. Develop and test models
for similar interventions in the future.
5.4    Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Pilot Land Management Component.  The land management
component is a pilot to test and develop on a watershed basis suitable land management practices for
minimizing the extent of land degradation. The component consists of on-farm and off-farm activities,
and accounts for only 15% of total project costs. This analysis applies only to the on-farm activities,
which is about 10% of the total project costs, and directly estimates on-farm benefits through increased
productivity. The analysis does not include externality benefits of on-farm activities nor the benefits and
costs of off-farm activities within the microwatershed. Benefits to farmers are expected to accrue as a
result of an increase in yields of existing crops due to improved land management practices such as
vegetative contour barriers, bank stabilization through vegetative measures, and stone terracing. These
practices result in the improvement of soil structure and improved retention of soil nutrients thereby
increasing soil fertility. The 'With" project case includes the management practices with all other factor
inputs remaining unchanged. Two farn models were analyzed 'With" and 'Without" these land
management practices to assess the impact of these measures on soil fertility. The farm models show a
substantial increase in farm income in the 'With" case due to introduction of these land management
practices. The results of farm budget analysis are given in Annex 7, Tables A7.2- 7.4. The overall
economic rate of return (ERR) of the proposed interventions to farmers in the pilot micro-watersheds is
16% in Model 1 and 28% in Model 2. The average weighted ERR is 24% (see Annex 7).



31
5.5    Two major risks in this component are: (a) that there could be delays in adoption of soil
conservation techniques by farmers; and (b) productivity increases from improved soil practices may not
be fully realized (para. 5.11). Sensitivity analysis was carried out which shows that the ERR is robust
and not sensitive to delays in project benefits. For Model 1, a lag in benefits by two years would reduce
ERR to 10%. whereas for Model 2, a lag in benefits by 2 years would reduce the ERR to 20%. The
sensitivity analysis also shows that it is not sensitive to shortfalls in projected yields, hence decline in
projected benefits. A decline in benefits by 40% would reduce the ERR to 11% for Model I and 22% for
Model 2.
5.6    To test the sensitivity of component's ERRs to possible adverse outcomes, an analysis of
switching values of costs and benefits was carried out. The results indicate that if benefits decline by 30%
and 75% for Models 1 and 2, respectively, the ERR declines to 12% which is the opportunity cost of
capital. Costs would have to increase by 50% and 290% for the Models 1 and 2 respectively for the
ERR to decline to 12% (see Annex 7).
Fiscal Sustainabilitv
5.7    The only project component with a long-term impact on GOSL's budget is the institutional
strengthening component. Some expenditures introduced by the project would become part of GOSL's
ongoing recurrent cost after project completion. In both ED and CEA, the budgetary impact is significant
with current expenditures rising by 39% and 33%, respectively from 1996 to the end of the five-year
project. However, the incremental recurrent cost, in 1995 constant prices, by the end of the project is only
0.2% of MTEWA's budgeted expenditures in 1995 (see Annex 7). The IDA credit would finance
incremental costs on a declining basis, and it is expected that they would be compensated by the overall
gain in economic efficiency (e.g. through pollution abatement) due to the institutional strengthening under
the project. GOSL has also indicated a willingness to sustain the ED and CEA expenditures and
activities after completion of the project.
5.8    Options for the enhancement of the fiscal sustainability of the project include the following
measures: (a) overall fiscal adjustment would facilitate the government to engage in high priority areas,
such as the environment, where it has its comparative advantage; and (b) a freeze on new hiring in the
non-staff grades including positions currently unfilled would improve sustainability. However, stringent
budgetary conditions are likely to prevail over the next few years, which suggest that additional measures
are necessary to ensure fiscal sustainability. As part of the project, provision is made for technical
assistance in the first project year to undertake a study of the license fee structure with a view to
improving cost-recovery. The recommendations of this study would be jointly discussed by IDA and
GOSL, and an action plan would be implemented (para. 3.8). Preliminary analysis indicates that modest
increases in the current fee structure could offset the increased recurrent expenditure resulting from the
project (see Annex 4, paras 23-24 and Annex 7, Table A7. 1).
Risks
5.9    Human Resources. The institutional component of the project would largely depend in the longer
term on addressing the underlying problems that have made it difficult to recruit and retain highly
qualified staff. The problems of low compensation package for high-level civil servants and a high ratio
of support to high-level staff are key issues to be addressed, and these are being taken up as a generic
issue in the GOSL-Bank dialogue on public sector reform, and in the case of environmental institutions,
under technical assistance provided under the project. A study undertaken in year 1 of the project would
lead to the preparation and subsequent implementation of an action plan to provide better incentives
systems to permit well-trained technical staff to be recruited and retained by CEA (para. 3.8).
5.10    Complexity of Stakeholder Composition.   The policy agenda required for sustainable
development needs to be defined with a view to arriving at a broad consensus among a widely diverse set
of stakeholders. The project cuts across many sectors, and consensus building on enviromnental policy



32
implementation among line agencies, NGOs, and communities is a complex task. Project design has
attempted to reduce this risk in the following ways: (a) clearly defining the roles of MTEWA/ED and
CEA in policy planning and enforcement, with line agencies still playing a major role in implementing
sector strategies; (b) utilizing existing institutions rather than creating new ones; (c) encouraging
beneficiary participation with long-term measures such as the establishment of an outreach MTEWA/ED
staff position, and in the short term, using participatory mechanisms for the land and CEIF components;
(d) undertaking studies in areas where there is a need to clarify the links between economy-wide and
sector-wide policies and the environment; and (e) reviewing and updating annually the policy reform
agenda with IDA and other donors.
5.11    Pilot Land Management Component. Two major risks in the land management component are:
(a) that there could be delays in adoption of the soil conservation techniques by the farmers; and
(b) productivity increases from improved soil practices may not be fully realized. These would be
addressed by providing mass awareness campaigns and farmer education programs as well as evaluating
the long-term sustainability of the land treatments. While such efforts have been made in neighboring
Asian countries, the longer-term feasibility of such measures needs to be studied in greater depth in the
hill country context of Sri Lanka. This would be addressed by providing for a baseline study and follow-
up surveys over the life of the project, various demonstrations to test the technology, and by introducing a
beneficiary participation approach. The proposed component represents a step in an important learning
process and should generate important awareness of both the problems and possible solutions.



33
6.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    The following agreements have been reached at Negotiations:
(a)    MTEWA would establish by July 31. 1997, a Policy Unit within the MTEWA/ED (para.
3.5);
(b)    updated NEAP would be issued no later than September 30. 1997 (para. 3.5);
(c)    studies on staff incentives, private sector involvement, and appropriate license fee
structure for CEA would commence no later than September 30 1997, and no later than
March 31, 1998, the GOSL would furnish to IDA the action plans based on the results
of the studies and would carry out these plans after IDA review/approval (para. 3.8);
(d)    NGO outreach program satisfactory to IDA would be finalized by September 30. 1997,
and implemented soon after (para. 3.12);
(e)    criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA would be employed for the evaluation,
selection and supervision of CEIF subprojects (para 3.18);
(f)    a Special Account would be established and held in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and
MTEWA will be responsible for channeling funds directly to all the implementing
agencies including the Central Provincial Council, Land Use Policy Planning Unit and
Natural Resources Management Unit (para. 3.38);
(g)    all project accounts and financial statements, including Statements of Expenditure and
the Special Account, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and a
copy of the audit report and of the financial statements would be submitted to IDA no
later than six months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.41);
(h)    the SC and the CIEDP with membership, responsibilities, and resources satisfactory to
IDA would be established no later than July 31. 1997. and maintained (para. 4.1);
(i)    MTEWA's ED and CEA would recruit the additional staff according to the timetable
agreed with IDA (para. 4.6);
(j)    the arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the administration and management of the
CEIF (para 4.9);
(k)    preparation of five MC plans satisfactory to IDA no later than September 30. 1997. and
five other MC no later than April 30. 1998 (para. 4.11);
(1)    GOSL will ensure that its Forestry Department extend the term of existing permit
holders on reservations for a minimum period of five years subject to the lessee carrying
out the management practices stipulated (para. 4.13); and
(m)    the Borrower shall (i) by September 30. 1998, carry out an in-depth review of the Project
activities; promptly thereafter furnish a copy of such review to IDA for discussion; and,
as a result of such discussion, implement recommendations satisfactory to IDA; and (ii)
by June 30. 2000, carry out a second in-depth review of the Project Activities; promptly



34
thereafter furnish a copy of such review to IDA for discussion; and, as a result of such
discussion, implement recommendations satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.16).
(n)     list of indicators satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.17).
6.2     Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a)     appointment of major consultancies (paras. 3.23, 3.32 and 4.14);
6.3     Conditions of Disbursement for the Pilot Land Management Component would be (para. 4.13):
(a)     Memorandum of Understanding, satisfactory to IDA, between MTEWA, MAL&F and
Provincial Department of Agriculture (PDA) of the Central Province shall have been
concluded and entered into effect;
(b)     the LSC shall has been established;
(c)     the Natural Resource Management Specialist and catalysts required for the first year's
implementation program have been recruited and
(d)     the standard 30 year lease agreement requiring lessees to carry out land management
practices satisfactory to the Forestry Department and IDA is in effect.
6.4     With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for an Interim Fund
Credit of SDR 10.7 million (US$14.8 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity.
The Borrower would be the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
in:\nbacon\sn\env\package\sar.doc
February 24, 1997 2:28 PM



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
THE PROJECT'S LINK TO BANK'S STRATEGIES
World Bank Environmental Strategv
1.   This first-stage project is in line with the on-going 'third generation" environmental activities
sustained by the World Bank and its member countries.  As described in the recent report on
Mainstreaming the Environment: The World Bank Group and the Environment since the Rio Earth
Summit (FY 1995), this third generation of activities has as its principal areas of emphasis: (i) on-the-
ground implementation; (ii) incorporating environment into sectoral and national strategies --upstream of
project work; and (iii) a stronger focus on people participation in devising and implementing
environmental management strategies.   The principal component of this project (institutional
strengthening) would lead to the internalization of a planning and priority-setting mechanism integrating
economic and environmental concerns as well as increased capacity for on-the-ground enforcement of
environmental regulations. The other two components (community environmental improvement fund and
pilot land management) will also promote concrete environmental improvement management but with
special emphasis on the demonstration of effective people participation, third area of thrust of Bank
environmental work. In addition to being in line with these global trends of Bank work, the project fits in
the overall country assistance strategy followed by the Bank in Sri Lanka.
Country Assistance Stratef
2.   The World Bank Group's country assistance strategy for Sri Lanka' is designed to help Sri Lanka
realize its goal of economic growth and poverty reduction comparable to that of its more prosperous East
Asian neighbours. Balancing environment protection with the promotion of private sector-led growth is
central to this strategy. Principal Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) priorities and their impact on
project design are summarized hereafter, as well as the linkages between project components and selected
on-going Bank projects.
3.   Improved Fiscal Discipline. To support the growth objective, Bank Group efforts concentrate on:
fiscal restraint, civil service restructuring, higher operations and maintenance expenditures--offset by
increased user charges, more rapid reduction in losses of public enterprises through accelerated
privatization, and efficiency gains from reform of large enterprises, and the elimination of unproductive
subsidies; and support to the devolution process.
4.   Private Sector Development. Bank Group efforts aim at: providing a conducive institutional and
policy framework for private investment and for public investment in infrastructure, stimulating a supply
response, and ensuring that growth will not be at the expense of the natural environment or the quality of
urban life. The Bank Group also emphasizes the need to address the key requirements for private sector
growth. These are: (a) diversification and productivity growth in the agricultural sector; (b) deepening of
the financial sector; (c) private sector investment in infrastructure; and (d) environment safeguards.
5.   Building Up Human Capital. To address the poverty reduction objective, the Bank Group's
approach highlights creating jobs and raising rural incomes by improving the environment for private
sector growth, particularly in agriculture.
Country Assistance Strategy, May 21, 1996



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
6.   Policy Dialogue. The Bank and the government have jointly prepared a comprehensive reform
agenda, 'Sri Lanka in the Year 2000" which provides a foundation for the policy dialogue. The
government intends to use this document to strengthen on-going dialogue with interested parties on
economic issues.
7.   Proiect Links to Bank Group's Strategy. The Bank Group's work in Sri Lanka reinforces the
government's conviction that growth must not be at the expense of the natural environment or the quality
of urban life. This project fits into the Bank Group's CAS as it would strengthen the institutional and
policy framework for environmental management leading to cost-effective and fiscally sustainable
improvement in selective areas of environmental policy making and enforcement that belong in the
private sector, while promoting the contracting out of environmental services currently undertaken by the
public sector. Some of the critical problems of environmental institutions in Sri Lanka (inadequate entry
standards, low pay, and low morale) are issues that are not unique to this sector and will be addressed by
the stand-alone civil service reform work that is at the heart of the CAS agenda on redefinition of the
public sector. While the project will apply Bank experience in environmental institution development, it
will maintain enough flexibility in project implementation for the application of relevant
recommendations of overall public sector reform as the above stand-alone work progresses. The project
would help update the NEAP and bolster the capacities of the lines agencies to build environmental
considerations into their planning and project development. The project will also establish and support
sustainable mechanisms of coordination between NGOs, public and private sector entities and external
donors in addressing policy and investment issues for the promotion of environmental management.
8.   The project will contribute to increased transfer of responsibility to the private sector by contracting
out certain activities in the EIA and licensing processes, while keeping overall control in the public sector.
This objective will complement the environmental laboratory, privatization program supported under the
on-going Private Finance Development Project (PFDP). In terms of policy dialogue, the Policy Letter and
the Policy Action Plan supported by the project will assist the government in reviewing macro- and sector-
wide policies with impact on the environment. The objective of the policy letter is to spell out the
institutional and legal changes and broadly set out the policy changes required for sound environmental
management. Moreover, the policy letter would serve as a vehicle for updating the needed measures as
well as a framework for the dialogue with donors. The project will also continue the investigation of
economic policy-environment linkages in view of the promotion of market-driven interventions for
environmental management. On the more specific issue of CAS support to GOSL's devolution of powers,
both the CEIF and the land management components will demonstrate increased involvement of
provincial governments in on-the-ground implementation of environmental activities.
9.   Finally, the project will complement on-going Bank-supported projects such as the Colombo
Environment Improvement Project (by strengthening the legal and institutional framework of pollution
regulation enforcement, and by investigating models of market-driven mechanisms for the enforcement of
environmental standards); and the Forest Sector Development Project (e.g., by supporting, through the
land management pilot, a system for ensuring that the transfer of land to farmers will lead to a more
sustainable and efficient use of rapidly degrading land resources).



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
Matrix of Policy Reform Agenda for Sustainable Development
Promoting Environmental Management
Environmental          Objectives and                    Strategies and Measures
Area                 Rationale
1. Institutional and   Strengthening institutional short-term
planning issues        capacity                 restructure and increase resources of Central Environment
Agency
restructure Environment Division within Ministry of
Transport, Environment & Women's Affairs
review, and where necessary, improve the capacity of other
existing institutions to enforce regulations and environmental
objectives
Ensure efficient resource   short-term
allocation of the public  incorporate environmental appraisal early in the project
investment program      planning cycle
short- and medium-term
review and update public investment programs on an annual
basis with respect to the environment
review and update on a regular basis the National
Environmental Action Plan
Improve adherence to sound short-term
environmental principles    undertake public participation and transparent process in
environmental policy development
2. Land and water      Improve incentives for soil short-term
resources              and water conservation   allow long term leases for plantations
sell equity in management companies
review the importance of converting use rights (Land
Development Ordinance, LDO, permits) to transferable
property rights in the small-holding sector
review the relationship between fertilizer subsidy, thereby
causing excessive use, and environmental damages
short- and medium-term
continue liberalization of agricultural incentives (such as
liberalization of imports of potatoes)
transfer property rights of minor irrigation water
distribution systems to the farmers



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Environmental           Objectives and                     Strategies and Measures
Area                  Rationale
3. Forest resources and   Encourage sustainable  short-term
biodiversity           forest management and      continue reforms in timber stumpage pricing
biodiversity conservation    formulate plan to increase involvement of private sector
(entrepreneurs and communities) in managing forest
resources
4. Urban and industrial  Reduce water and air    short-term
pollution               pollution, and improve    introduce cost-recovery mechanisms for solid waste
(Fuel related issues are   solid waste disposal  collection and sewerage
covered under item 6.)                            introduce water surcharges for polluting industries for use of
municipal water
involve private sector participation in garbage services
medium-term
l  prepare solid waste management plan that would include
some controls on plastic waste, as well as the optimum mix of
source reduction, recycling, composting, landfill, and
incineration
long-term
for industrial water and air pollution replace and introduce,
respectively, concentration-based discharge standards with
load-based standards based on the maintenance of ambient
environmental quality
5. Coastal zone issues    Reduce coastal resource    short-term
(Industrial and domestic  degradation from coral and   encourage special-area management initiatives
water pollution are     sand mining, and shipwaste  reduce protection for coral/lime substitutes, such as cement,
covered under item 4.)   from ports and dumping    with due consideration to the social impact
medium-term
l  demarcate degradation-prone sand mining locations and
introduce an environmental charge to encourage sand mining
in other, less sensitive, areas
l  take part in international agreements on ship waste disposal
in coastal waters
6. Energy and fuel      Improve energy use       short-term
resources               efficiency                increase electricity tariff toward long-run marginal cost
review environmental implications of reducing diesel
subsidy
medium-term
review progress toward increasing electricity prices
formulate a plan for introducing unleaded petrol, reducing
the sulphur content of diesel, and for higher diesel prices, and
review the relative cost and benefits of the options
encourage demand-side energy conservation



Sri Lanka
Environewntal Action 1 Project
Ptoject Coat n_nry
fRE. '0001                                         (U56 '0001
B      S Total                                   B      B Total
Foreign    Base                                  Foreign    Base
I. Investmet Costs
A. Civil Works                              120.825,8  20.662,8 141.488,6           IS         14  2.196,8    375,7  2.572,5          1S        14
B. Vehicles                                  60.525,0  29.677,1  90.202,1           33          9  1.100,5    539,6  1.640,0          33         9
C. Field Works                              105.468,4  15.54,3 121.122,7           13         12  1.917,6    284,6  2.202,2          13        12
D. Machinery and equipment                   12.068,4  46.676,3  58.744,7           79          6    219,4    848,7  1.068,1          79         6
e. Office Furniture                           5.142,6      553.7   5.696,2          10          1      93,5     10,1    103,6         10          I
0. Studies                                    5.943,6  51.823,2  57.766,8           90          6    108,1    942,2  1.050,3          90         6
B. Training
Foreign Training                                 -  35.573,1  35.573,1          100          3         -    646,8    646,8        100         3
Local training                          .J,L_.LS_- .1L.521.9                                 2 .2.2L2           -                   -" 
Subtotal Training                            15.521,9  35.573,1  51.095,0           70          5    282,2    646,8    929,0          70         5
I. Specialiat Services
1. Forei.gn Specialist Services
Policy                                        -  15.248,0  15.248,0         100          1         -    277,2    277,2        100         I
Ieplementation                                -  14.400,9  14.400,9         100          1         -    261,8    261,8        100         I
Capacity Building                             - 0 661.3i  40-661.3i. .......ll            4        - .....22L.a    739..31 .........l  4...
Subtotal Foreign Specialist Services             -  70.310,1  70.310,1          100          7         -  1.278,4  1.278,4        100         7
2. Local Specialist Services
Policy                                12.124,9           -  12.124,9           -         1    220,5          -    220,5          -        1
Implementation                        37.621,8  26.497,3  64.119,1           41          6    684,0    481,8  1.165,8          41         6
Capecity Building                        466J            -     46S.3           -          -      8r.i        -       8.5
Subtotal Local Specialist Services    _5L0213.1  26.i497.3  76.710.4             35          7      _  ._ 0 . 481.8  L,3942 7      35         7
Subtotal Specialit Service                   50.213,1  96.807,4 147.020,5           66         14    913,0  1.760,1  2.673,1          66        14
J. Other-Ad.. charges                             9,1           -       9,1          -          -       0,2         -      0,2         -         -
K. Fund                                     152_1      _6.51J3.3 216i 444L 7        29.21 21  ,780.2  1L155.2  3.915.4                29        21
Total Iveastent Costs                           528.629,3 360.961,2 889.590,5           41         87  9.611,4  6.562,9 16.174,4          41        87
II. Recurret Costa
A. lncremental Staff                         55.525,8           -  55.525,8          -          5  1.009,6          -  1.009,6         -         S
B. Civil Works OM                            6.037,4   1.032,5   7.069,9           1S          1    109,8      18,8    128,5         1S         1
C. blatorials/Equipmenc and Tools 04        11.144,3  10.814.3  21.958,6           49          2    202,6    196,6    399,2          49         2
0. Vehicles 064                               4.153,0  12.146,1  16.299,1           75          2      75,5    220,8    296,3         75         2
e. Office Expenditures                       3.394.1            -  35.394.1          -          1    643.           -    643.5         -
Total R.ecurrent Costs                          112.254A6  23.992.8 136.247.5            1          13  2.,041.0   436L2  2         477.2  iS       13
Total BASELDX COSTS                              640.883,9 384.954.0 1.025.838            38        100 11.652,4  6.999,2 18.651,6         38       100
Physical Contingencies                          26.634,8  17.207,4  43.842,2           39          4    484,3    312,9    797,1          39         4
Price Contingencies                            160S386.0  92.269E1 252S 65.1           17         25  _880.7  __AZi  .L306.7             33         7
Total PROJECT COSTS                              827.904,8 494.430,5 1.322.335            37       129 13.017,4  7.738,1 20.755,5          37       111
Thu Feb 20 08:46:13 1997
2-1 Project Cost Sumery



Sri Lankh
Environnental Action 1 Project
Project Coat Su_ary
(R- 1000)                                            (Us0  0007
IR.00   t   iTotal                  (                    t Total
Foreign    Base                                   Foreign    Base
Local    Eorei_   To_al   EXChsang_   Costa    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening Environment Divirion               85259.5  .2.222,8 167.482,3             49         16  1.550,2  1.49S,0  3.045,1           49        16
Strengthening Central Environ-e.tal Agency 229.304,0 155.401,4 384.705,4                 40         38  4.169,2  2.825,5  6.994,6           40        38
Policy Studies                                              5 0.a826. 6  56  65 .9       90          6 -- -I        .2.      1.030.1        90         6
Subtotal I.etitotion-l Strengthening               320.392,8 2a8.450,8 608.843,6             47         59  5.825,3  5.244,6 11.069,9          47        59
B. Lend Nanag.mnt
Pilot Activi.   ea                              1144,710.5  322.70.0 17768 0.5           19         17  2,631.1 __599 .5  323,. 6           19        17
Subtotal Land  .anag.esat                          144.710,5  32.970,0 177.680,5             19         17  2.631,1    599,5  3.230,6          19        27
C. C--oc  nity Environ.eot Initiatives Facility 175.780.6  63 533 3 23931 .8..   27                     23  3,196.0  1,1552  4351.2            27         23
Total BASELINB COSTS                                 640.883,9 384.954,0 1.025.838            38        100 11.652,4  6.999,2 18.651,6           38       105
Physical Contingencies                             26.634,8  17.207,4  43.842.2            39           4    484,3    312,9    797,1          39         4
Price Contingencies                               160  386.0 92 269.1 252  55f. 37                    25    880 7          426.1 10..7        33  ..     7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  827.904,8 494.430,5 1.322.335            37        129 13.017,4  7.738,1 20.755,5           37       111
Thu Feb 20 08:46:20 1997
PiCt
1-1 Project Cost Sucnry



Sri Lanka
Iniona  Action I Project
gaPOAditoreO Accounts Breakdownm
(As. '00C)
Physical
Costs      Plus'
ase6 Coa-                         Physia   otiooiaPrc   oriooietotal  -o  Con                                                                                  Price.    Pric
Loa                  Local                                                           ocal                                       Loal                            Coot.  nCoot.
For.      (aR.l.   Duties &                 For.    (Earl.   Duties                 For.      (Earl.   Duties&                  For.       (tcol    Duties &                 Base   Physical
I..Isstaseet Costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0.
A. Ciil Works                                 20.662,8 113.751.4   7.074,4 141.488,6  2.066,3 11.375,1    707,4 14.148,9   4.280.7  25.513,4   1.568,1  31.362,1  27.009,8 150.639,8   9.350,0 186.999.6 169.999,6100,
a. vehicles                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29.677,1  4..5914,9  55.9310,0  90~. 2012,1  1.493,9    229,7  2.796,5  41.510,1   4.702,4  850,14   8.x165,)  14.06 Or8,   35.862,4   5.2,    722518709 103.600,9   SAUI
C. FiV    Wok                                  5.5,   05484                    2.227        727  5406                -6.193,3   2.366,7  17.560, a                 19.927,5  08.803,7 18.439,8-174.   14.08,                           2.19S,7
D. Machinery arnd Equipment                   46.6763    3.521,6   0.5468  58.744,7  2.33938    17961    427.3  2.2937,2  13.770,1   1.112,    2.5238  17.406,   62.702 4.910,5  01.497,9  79.0788,6  75.122,5   3.766,13
O. ttire Furniture                             6637   4.857,8         284,8 569,            27,7'   242,9       14.2    294.8       1827,0 1778           124    .4,             6.    6884           414 8.2,              .4,       382,3.
a.Itude                                     51832 593L                          7768    .9,           9            -  2.7788,.   285,7.8,                     -   4142.481   71          7.28, 43-  75.638,2  7341.602 3570
FoegDrann                                    5.531                            57.573,1  1.7,72.778778,77   88 20,                                                 12.852084175-46725 3938 2.87
Suototal training  35.573,1  15.521,9        -  51.095,0  1.778,7    776,1            -  2.964,8    .820,8   4.132,1             -  12.952,8  46.172,0   0.430,1 -766.602,6663.431,003.171,
1.poreign T peinigli*2t9                                                     S Osr7yice548s.80,    486
Policy ng15.248,01   1-51  15.248,0      762,4                                                    -                6,       .0,                              252 1.1,                                   18.219,6  17.352,0       86,
tatpL T. e.ntai                         1409                -          -14409           200           -        -      200 2492-- 2.249,2  1736,219.6                                                       17.370,1  16. 543        87,
1.Subtotal Foreign Spcait6ev2s 0301                            .              0304 .3,                   -              76321,5  23.423,0                           342,    729,2   2                       .249,2 173.01 9415   4154.7
2. L.ocal  Speciaist Sericas             1.4                                s20:                                       2,       .4,                                                                        5jf5_
Po liCY                                -44        122499                12124409                                 2 062  06323             531            - 6.11.2.593,87.1249,2                           5.2,01.553               2,
Oepleoentation   26497,3  37.621,8             -   4.119,1   1.324,9  1881,1            .  3.206,0    .301,8  11.231,3             -18.533,1  352124,050.734s2 S                   00.85822    819 7697   4.088,
capacity Aol Idiog                    _____  .......tn...  1...si                         - 3.1.5...,..iJ     -........                                                         -     jqj325                      2 ......c,s.......b  ......5
Sutoa  Spcals   erIe              9-0745.231                              .  4.0054.4             2.50,            -7.51,   2.75,   1.53.7,-  34.602,8e 122.373,2  66.734,i2                                 18  8.9431997    
2. OtherAdl SPchargets                              .        9.1                 12491         -    606.52                  ,                     ,                     ,                    20-                   1           1 
C.Fn                                    A.52L   12.Ui24.9        022itSzt   ___  1.88.1                            3206,  ..2,42  2JA.301Z..2.iA1.2                       001OL2        541..9k.   3.OL02000    2.0l
C. Matsrials/Equipeonnt and Tools 0614 21.849,3  10.06,41   .07,   241.958,      5340,7    502,        549    3.07,    3.90 3.977,51             402 .8,              .5,    4561            .62130.9741,2  2975, 4            0477
D.Veiles 0nta12146,n3.43,                                           0,6629160,                     6,         05      95.       .7,        .6,         251,6  54.'191,3   162.527,5 646750        11192.0,   2.8,                   .6
C. Office Eapandlturaa   ~~~~~~~~2649.1  SOJL 21          ____  76l,71   4           . 32   9  - 50.  73 -  207                 3,lJ4J 77____    jjl    ____   ALl28I....2
oa    Scubtoant Costs                        .22222   IhII2t3 ....LZL  2147L20.L   4...4024  .MiZ2.....AA..22   l.i2.l.2MLi....2t6AZL1..1...221.1.    .R.   .2.Z..021...A-Lo.
CS eb2   8:61   1997.                                                                                                         0                    :                     ,                                                76095--9-242           
Subtotal  8,.Ci&i.t  S.-ic..  96807,4  50.213,1D's                  O'S                                    59,S948  80,186  7 182050-7 -IIJLUla
9.1   -       9,1                                           16l EpendtoreAccuntsBreadow



Sri Lank.
Environnmental ACtion 1 Project
Table 1, Strengthening Rnyico,ament Division
Datailed Coat.
=unities                              TOtal   nlud'i2noCot inoonIcies  laos  oppi)                   ToaoIcuig  nrneco illJSS                       0
1. Itweatnet Cost.
A. Spanislia.t Bankcs.
1.Local Specialist Services
WRAP Review                                              personenthi        4             4                     a       541,9          -      636,9            -- 1.178,8                     9,2         -      9.1 I                       18,9
natural Resource Specialist                              parsoneoth        12      -     12      -       -    24   1.625,7             - 1.910,8               -                 .536,5      27,6         -     29.0         -                6,7
lot. So-ironental Affairs Specialist                     p-rsonmontl       12      -     12      -      -     24   1.625.?                  1.910,8-                           3.536,5      27,i               29,0          --             56.7
Industrial/Urban Specialist                              per -oroth        12      .     12      -      -     24   1.621,7             - 1.910,8-                              3.516,5      27.6          -     29,0         -               6,7
Legal Specialist                                         peors.neonth      12      .     12      -      -     24   1.625,7             - 1.910,8s                              3.536,5      27,6          -     29.0         --             56,7
Mon itoring and Rovironeental lnfo-rti-n Syoten pers-onenth                 4   0,5    0,5    0,5        - 5,5         141,9        73.9       79,6        85,0                   780,5       9.2      1.2       1.2       1,2        -     12,0
Data Acquisition                                         persoonooth       8a             -      -       -     8   1,5053,j-.                                                   1,08,,,,,Q3.8 ---,,,,j, I"         -         .        -
Subtotal tonal Specialist Services                                                                                      8.67I0,5       73,9   8.359,8          85.0           -17.189,2    147.5           1,2    127,0       1.2         - 276.9
2. Local  SspIls.ta tion Sopport
Loca .1Project Coordinator                               parso-nethi    12        12     12     12     12    65    1.556,7    1.698,1   1.823,0    1,938.7    1.983,2    8.999,7            26,5      27,1      217,     28.3      29.0    138,6
Financial/Procu renent Specialist                        pernsonnth        12     12     12     12     12     80       5 83 ,7    636,8       683.6       727,0       74 3 ,7    3.374,9      9.9     10,2      10.4     10,6      10,9     52,0
Consultant - Engineer                                       luepouc                                                    211,3      339,6       364.6                        -   1.015,6        5,7      5.4       5,6              -         16,9
Support Staff Iapersonnonth                                                36     36     36     36     36   189        758.9      827,0       888,7       945,1       986,8    4.307,4       12.9     13.2      13,5     13,8      14,1     67,6
AMcconts los.t.                                          Parocosnoth       12     12     12     12     12    60       214,0       233.5       250,7       266.6       272,7    1.237,5        3,6      3,7       3,8      3,9       4,0     19,1
other Asto                                               persoononth       242    24     24     24     24   120       2332, 5     2 54 ,7     273,5       290,8       297,0    1.350,0        4,0      4,1       4,2      4 ,3      4,3     20,11
CROP Speciailst                                          p.rsonecoth    12        12     12     12     12    .60       583,7      636,0       683,6       727,0       743,7    3.374,9        9.9     10,2      10,4     10.6      10,9     52:0
CEOP Asot.                                               personnonth       12     12     12     12     12     60      214.0       2 33, 5     250,7       266.6       2 72 ,7    1.237,5      3,6      3,7       3.6      3,9       4,0      19,1
Post Graduate Intern                                      per yean         12     12     12     12     12    60  1...2.295...1 ...91Ot  .4.5  2855.4A ....L...2.5.J ......t22.0.  1J.146.7 .....29.2.  .......5 ....fl.2.. .....flL  .,..32.20 .. 6..A
Subtota  tona  ZIaPlseotsati, Support                                                                                   6,211,0    6.775,3   7 .27 3 ,8    7.347,4    7.516,4   35.124,0    105,6    108.1    110,5    107,4    109.9    641,5
3, Soteratoa   Specialist Servces
cnvironmeotal POlicy SPecialist                            ...cuot        12            12                    24  11A,675.0,              13.Jt672.8...                     .25I347.8...    19,5,j3956
SubtotalI Spec ialist Ssri...                                                                                            26.556,5   6.049,3  25.306,4   7.432,4    7.516,4  77.661,0    451,6    109,2   441,4    100.7  109o,9  1.224,8
S.VetUcla.
Car                                                             unit            3          -                       3   8.223,8             -           .           .           .   8.223,8    139,9               -              .             139.9
Jeep 4WD0                                                       unit            2      .                    -      2  13.767~1                                                    13___    ____    I,76.1..  il2.3t4. 1                        234.1
Subtotal Vebiclss                                                                                                         21.9903,9           -.                                     21.990,9    374,0                                             3    74,0
C. Squipeast
CoiPuter                                                          .et           .            1 5     5            20           -           - 5.349,5    1.89519                . 7.244,4            .              81,3      27,7         .    109,0
Printers                                                         set                   .      3      -             3           .-                 450,4           .                  450.4          .               6,8         .                6,8
Slartoa.-achiiin-Big                                               set                          2                    2           -           - 1 259, 9___                          11..2592.l.                -...A .1J  ___-  12.
Sutoa  Rquipa.ot                                                                                                                .-17.058,8    1.895,9                          .18.954,7                      - 2 5 9, 3      27,7              287.0
foca    Tra ining /b                                           lonpnun                                                    664,1       724.9       700.6       833.2                3.002,8      11.3      11,6     11,9      12.2         .     46,9
Porigon Training Ic                                            lupnuo                                                   3.815,4    4.162,1    4.465,2   4.751,6               -17.197,2         64,9      66,4     67,9      69.5         .    268,6
NGO Training                                                   L.ump...                                              6...7...7L. 4..."ItIA.7L.     9 ..t22A 4  _ -        ___         ,,.1724 8. 6  11.J    2..6 ...24L1 ______ 
Subtot.l TrI     n                                                                                                         5.156,8    6.265,9    6.941,1   5.184,0                   23.948,6       87,7    101,5    104,0    91,6           .    374,8
C. Stdeaupu                                                                                                                           3556,5  38.162,8                -              73.699,3               566,8    50,                        1. 146,8
P. offic  Pucoiturn                                                lumnpsun                                                                     .,...L  & 1  5    ____553-.2211                            __ __ ..."2           24..-2A.  .      -i 
Total Soneatasot Coats                                                                                                         53.704,3  48.751,0   9 2 .9 22,8  16,570,8   7.516,4 219.465,8    913,3    777,5 1.412,2    2 42,23   109,9  3.455,2
I, sUrraO.t Cos ta
A. Isocossotal Staff
Dier~tor                                                      stuffynur         5      5      5      5      5    20   1.720,3   1.879,0   2.022,0   2.158,3   2.298,6  10.077,3                 29.3      30,0     70,7      31,6     33.6    155.1
Deputy Dietors                                                staffysar         1      4      4      0      5    10       2 61, 8   1.142,3    1.231,1    1.642,6   1.749,3    6.028,2           4.5      18.2     18,7      24.0     25.6       91,0
AnStE. Directors                                              stat 1year        2      5      5      6      6    24 .....,..23..2 1.42..97.2 .......fl.0 ,..A...&.KA  ..il....S92.   .....Ii.  .. 9.... .......22. ....2IA ........5  .15..2  -14.IA
Subtotal Inreasomtai Staff                                                                                                 2.505,9    4 .4 50, 5   4.791,9   1.772,0    6.147,2  23.667,5           42,6     71,0      72,8     8 4 ,4    89,9    361,7
9. office Oporating Eaponn.en Id                                   lucpuuc                                                 3.162,4    4,.99 8,7   5.302,2    5.745,0   6.118,4  25.406,7            53.8     79,7      81,8     84.0    8995    388,7
C. Opara tios a Waist ....ca
Rental/06l4 Office Build.                                       unit                                                      971,5    1.060,5   1.784,1    1.904,4    2.02B,2   7.748,8            16,5      16,9     27,1      27,8     29,7    118,0
Vohicles /..a..uC                                                                                                         8 37 ,1     913,9       902,6    1.046,8    1.092,7    4. 87 3,1I    14.2       14,6     14,9      15,3     16.0      75,0
Vquipeont                                                       unit                                                                       .    2,1.  .....2 a ..4..22A ...8.91.22&,                   ___         39,.B2.-  4,,85.,0...ALQ...2L6
Su,btotal Opsratio   8. Siots......                                                                                      ...,.0.  ,.J.9A   ...,,S3. ...i,DI  ..LUl..22.,.2   .115.5 _.2.0.0 ,.....8.l --S ,....88. .......SLi....
Tots1                                                                                                                           61. 180,6  60.170,2 108.480,8  34.0118,7  26.0115,9 290.072,1 1 . 040, 5    9 59, 7 1.648,6   498,8    381,8  4.529,5
\a Includes one Adminiotratios OffiCer aod 2 Ocoreturie..
\6, local training will conuist ma inly  -oputer training for staff.
\c Pore-ign training will nain1y cunnist of twinning arragenent.
\d Includes utilities, conuiain,Office supplien and tra-el.
\e Inclu do  veh.naintcn..nce, insu.rancs and fuel.
Thu Fob 20 10:13:20 1997
H>
4. t
1-1 Srr-oth-ning Eo-ir-onnt Ilicision



Sri Lanka
Environmaental Action 1 Project
Table 2. strengthening CentrL.  Env ironm,ental Authority
Deald Caste
Doantitias            Totals Inciodion Conrinne~~~~~~~~~~00oie   fOj00)Toal   Incei no CnstnsenictjLfi2±SDTotal.
Umt    7/9  98/99 nti   Deti SILOS TotflaSIS                fSfl                       St1         iO~        Total    f l   .210                -n       l
I. Iv..Sstomant Cot
A. Civil Work.
Construction of Lab/Office Bldg. /a                              completion In       25     50     25             -   100  39.183,1  85.537,0  406. 0209,2-- 170.749,3   06i,4 1.364,2   i990,5                                                   2.730,1
Architect - Building coneoltant                                     lumpseom                                               ...L, 52S.LS ....0.3j.                                       11--  .56.i2.8.  ..S-  ...Si.    - 9455
SubtotalI Civil Works                                                                                                           44.711,0   01.571,3  46 . 02 9,2            -182.312.1    76004 1.460,5   699,5-                                   - 2.920,4
51. EZ.,,at
1. Office Equipaent
COeqouters                                                         set            -      -     20     2 0      -    40            -          -   7.131,3   7.583,6                   14.714,9          -        -   100,4    110.9          - 219,2
Seroallachine Big                                                  st             -      -      2       -      -      2                                                              11 1.252,S-  ___A259.9.         .fl.21                      "
SubtotalI Offic  Equipes.t                                                                                                           --10.391,2    7.503,0                              2S.974,0 8                      279,5    1100,9         . 390,4
2. Masa..sn~t A Resource Info. Syste. Equipe..nt
File Servr                                                         No.                                                           --                 450,2            -           -      450.2                   -      0.                   -      0.
Conpues                                                             e             -      -     206                  206                           9.754,0            -- 9.754,0                       -         - 148,2            -        . 140.2
~Lase'rtrinters                                                    set-                         4      -       -     4           --                 900,4            -           -      900,4         -         -     13.7                  -     13.7
Dt Matrix Printers                                               asetL                         4      3      -      7           --                 300.1       239.5            .      539,i                          4,6      3.5        -      0,
Uninterruptead Powe.r supply                                      Non.            -      -      1          -          1                      -      112,5                  -            112,5         -         -      1,7             -           1,7
Cables & Accesso.ries                                           Luepsum.                                                                            135,1            -135.1                           -         -      2,1         -        .      2,1
MsWindows 9h                                                       net                                                                              58500,2                             58 05,2       -                09          -                ,9
Ms Office Professional Netoork                                     set                                                           .-                 300,1            -.                 300,1         -         -      4,0 6                       4.0
Ms FoxPro for Windous                                              set-                                                                      -      225,1-                              225,1                   -      34          .       -       3.4
Ms project                                                         oat                                                           -                  450,2            --                 450,2                          6..i,                       6  ,0
Betuork Operating Systemnt .                                                                                                                        285,1            --                 285,1         -         -      4.3                  -      4,3
Desi gn b Dv. Cosat                                                net                                                           -.i.20.                                             t171.2                           26__1__26-1
Sub tota IMasagaaent & Resourc   Info. Systee Rq.ipeest-                                                                                         -  15.210,2        239,5-  15.455,7                                -   231.2       3,5        -   234,8
3. Lab. Equ ipment                                                  lompaum                                                                         15- 3LI6i3          -1 5.306.3f                                     2 - 327        -                -
Subtotal Equip-sat                                                                                                                       -          -40 913,7    7.823,1                .56.736,n-8                         743.4   114.4               857,7
C. Vehicles
Van                                                                  unit             1             .      - -           1   2.01,2:                         -              . --    .01,2             44,2-                  -   -         -         44,2
4-MD Jeep                                           uni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t  1  - 2  .            3   6.883,5            .   01.                .               23.010,1    1171                2 45.1 I                    362,2
Pick-up                                                              uit              5      4      2      2      .     13  5.J3Si   h.20A...i2ZS7. ..3..5.i.262 3                     .31.687.2 ..Ji89.8   I .51    ..3.7..19A  ....t- SI          .I'll
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                               20.642,8   9.738,1  21.355,3    5 .0062, 3              -57.290,5    351.0    155,3    32 4 ,5         81,3        . 922
D. Specialist Serices
1.  ntrntioalSpcialist Serices
Strengthen Capacity of PAAn                                     amount            0      0          -      -        12   5.037,0      0.3067,0 8                           -        12.205,3       99,3    101,06                                0,
Codes of Practice Specialint                                  perso-moth          -      -      6      0             12-                     -   0.830,4    7,270,0-  24.206,4                         -        -   103.9   106,3           -   210,2
Airand waerQalt                                               personmoh           3      2          -  -                  2.910,17    2.1 2 2,6          .- 5.041,4                                49,0     33,9         -   -         -         03,5
License BathingProjec'ty                                pesnot                                                 2   5.037,5   0.307, 8                                         12.2 05,3      99,3    1,0           -                      200,8
Ince1.ntve stuodyJ/Privae Sector                              peromontnh          7      0      -6                  1      .80104    0.307,              -                          13.170,3     15,       100-                            -   217,4
mIS Specialist                                                peru.....ooth       2      2        -         -        4 ....L.4sj.  21.122,6                                           J  __68__    A. 4A    33....f-1.....3.L   
Subto talI nter..ationa lrSpscialiat Services                                                                                23.350,0  23.340,80  0.083iG.4    7 270,0              -   0.005,1    397,1    3 72 ,4    103,9    106,3               979,7
2 .. Lca  Speciait S.rvises
Bu-a  Resource Specialint                                     p-rnonmooth         4      -      -      -      -      4      541,9            -           -           -           -      541.9       9.2         -                          - -9.2
Lies    acklo  Project                                  peraonm....th        0      06                         12      012.9       007,3            --- 1.700,2                              13,0      14,2         --                -     2800
mI S Spec ialist                                              person..onth        4      -      -       .4 ,541.9   -                                                   ____            541J,9      9.2                                            9.2 
Sutotal LocllSeils  Services                                                                                            1..896.7ii.      887....i.3  2____   ____    ____                784...05±  32.3     14.2         -4-               -
Subtota   SpecI.iait SeriCe                                                                                                     25.240,7  24.230,1   0.030,4    7.270,0                 -63.509,1   4 29, 4    306,5    103.9    100,3             -1.020,1
B. Training
1. Foreign Training /b                                              lumpaum                                                   5.007,1   5.549,3    5.957,0    0.335,5                   22.929,0      80,5      00,5     90,5      92,0             358,2
2,  ocl ..lTraining /clupoum,                                                                                                 t.449..9  1....AS.        5 .... .1. 1..i. 1            .666...L.QQSA  -..2.2-6 .21.1 ...21..  ....2A..          -      3
Subtota  Training                                                                                                                0.415,4    6 .9 99, 2   7.510,0    0.001,9             -20.935,2    109,1    111,6   114,3    117,0               - 4 52.,0
F. Office Furniture                                                    lurupsom                                                         -           -   2 3 .LII 4   2 1.486..5         - 4816t.li9          -               35__  ..4.IL  36..4L  -      1
Tmtal  nvsat Costs                                                                                                                   97.010,51 32 .54 4 ,0  132.903,7   31.143,7             - 393.688,601.649, 92.114,0 2.021,0    455,3               -06.240,2
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Incrmeeata1 Itsff
Deputy Director General                                            staffycar          2      2      2      2      2     10      791,9       0064 ,4     930,7       993,5    1.050,1    4.030,5       13.5      13,0     14,1      14,5    05,5      71,4
Director                                                           eafar              .      2      4      5      5    106                  773,3    1.005,2    2.221,0    2.360,2    7.026,              -    12,3      25:3    32.5    34,5    104,3
Deputy Di-eccors  /d                                               sttaff,,yca.r             5      5      4      4     10                1.015,0    1.955, 1    1.009,.5    1.770,1   7.210,0            -    29:,0     2 9.7     24,4    260,    109,1
Aeo. O.irectm'r /e                                                 Staffyear          -                                  2-                 209,3    1.449,0    2.475,0    2.0630,7   0.031,63            -      4,3     22,0      30,2    30,      1 01,I
officers. /f                                                       otaff Y..r         -      5     10     25    25      73           - 1 .24 2 ,0    4.017,2   7.141,0    7.605,0   20.007,4              -     19,0     73,2    104,4   111,2    300,6
Subordinate Off icera                                              statfy-a                  6      0      9            32           -      101.71 .1.153,2  1,385LI.5.  .1.9475.5                              12A20.  ..8..2   .17.5 ....20......---..l.  7...X-'.
Subttotl In-creestal Staff                                                                                                         791,9   5 709.2  11.971,i   15.007,7  16 920,4  51.340,7               19,5     92,0    101.9    2 32. 3  247,4    767,1
B .f Offic  Operating Expenses  /9                                     lu-psum                                                   1.2065, 0    2 209,4    2 .97 3 ,0    3 174,0    3.300,4   13.002,3      21,5     35,2      45,2     46,4    43,4    197,8
C. Opec.etion & Cainte......
R .tal/O4Bldg.                                                       .nit                                                     1.004,0    3.255,3    1.097,4    1.010,08   1.917,0  10.345,1           20,3      51,9     25,0      20,5    20.0    100,5
vehicles 9&/h                                                       luepsus                                                   1.000,0    3.359,0    4.902,4    5.001,3    5.779,1  2 1 .3 70, 4       208,4     53,0     75,4      01,9   04,5    323,3I
Ego ip-.et                                                           unit                                                            -     -         4....9279.6k 6..106.AQ5  6.3.1i., 172 4LA57.8        -    -    .75.7            9 .55 - 2.11.   ..258.,1
Subtotalr Operation & Maintenance.                                                                                            .1152     6,614.L.9t .11.4121 .1.3.5.18.fitS..L    492173-3. .....56.7..  ...15               176i.9.  19 ASI  20.1.5.   I-h
Tetel  ..cur..nt Costs                                                                                                             ..&JTh        14ThS9...4 .26.584.6 .f....f 358 .3.1         1135. 516.3t   91L7   232jiLS  ..ASti ...A.3t.. ...5925 L1 I0L2
Total                                                                                                                                102.,405s.9147.13o.2 159 500,3  0 3 .72 4 ,0  34.300,5 507.204,9 1.741,0 2 340,7 2.425,1    93 1 ,6  502,5 7.943,5
\a -2530 Cons.truction of Lab/Office Bldg. at 1 sq,  .1. fee  eaCh.
\bThinnig ad other foreign training depending on the neds.
\cComputer and other local training depeodung on the needs..
\d Icludes      . seior environental scientist.
\o includes accountant. 
\f Include  adiitrtv .lega  and eniomna    fficero, auditor and accoun ting ..nnietamt..r
\g  ncludes utilitieL,coennnicrIion,, and office nuppl-,.                                                                                                                                                                                              o
\h   -loden  -eh. maintennce    liense  and fuel.                                                                                                                                                                                                    fit
Thu Feb 20 00;51:39 1997
2-1 Suc-ngthening Cenrl   nio-          etl   Authority



Sri La nka
Environmental. Ac tion 1 Project
Table 3. Laid Management- Pilot Activities
Dtailed Costs
quatites                                  otas Icluin  Cntinenceu    n    oo;.,~o...mosaag.-Co    ine-ci-s 11USS'00
n319         9            9 i9       10101       11112       Total        97196       98/99"      9                       0/02        To 01 f099/ 00 Oo/ 01A0                                     Totl
A. Land lAn  Planning                                     ha.           3.000       7.000             -                             10 000    1.001,0    2.551,8              -            -           - 3.553,7         17,0      40,7         -        -    -          57,7
B. Civil Works.
Fame.          Centr Ia                               unit                 2           3            3           2                      10      02 9,3    1.357,7    1.461,2    1.039,2-   4.647,5                      14,1      21,7      22,2    15,2-               73.3
C.C-Prm! treat-ant. /b
1.M ieoha Ti.al  teta.nts
Lock & Spill Ontioer In                           ha.              371         375            .           -           -         750  11.712,1  12.784,3                --24.496,5    199,2    203,9                                      -403.1
Stone Terraces Id                                 ha.              125         025                                    -         250   7,657.a ....,jjj..               -              _____2L.Utlk-  ....130t.    133.32L                                       26 ---
SubtotalI Me.b.    ia  Treat .eots                                                                                                        19.369,9  21.143,2                           --40.513,1   329.4    337.2                           -       -- 666,6
2. Vegetative Brriers
SAILT Is                                          he,            I1.800      1.800            -           -           -      3.600  34.201,7   37-338.0                -                            1.5 4S,     S81.8    595,5                                1.177,3
Vetiver If                                        ha.              400         4 00           .           -           -         800   4.751,1    5.185,8               -.9.9 36:,9                                80.0     82,7                                 1 6 3 ,5
Plan.ting Material  /g                            nO.       1.250.001  1.250. 000             -           -           - 2.500.000        024.8       000.3-                                    -   1.725,2       14.0      14,4                   --             28,4
VillagelNurseriee  /h                              o                  5          10           .           -           -          15 1.....j.2         378.....1...,-                                   5.51,.4..2.2.,,9.,.6~.                                      9 -
Subtotal Vegetati-e  Barriers                                                                                                            39.956,9  43.802,3               ---83.759,2    679,5    698,6                                     .                    1.378,1
3. Dleelnstrations/Adapti-e Rlenach                lumpuu,n                                                                                   66..,,,,.0t.  144..1i .,,,,...l    16.....4                 530. ......fl   ,..,W    ......2.J 2......> 4........A  -
Subto tal On-Part Treat-ats                                                                                                                  50.392,8   65.089,5         185,0       165,4               124.802,8 1.010,1 1.038,1            2.4     2.4            2.053,0
T. ft    .. tent-tt
Vegetative Treat-ante /A                             ha.            1.150       1.150             .                              2.300    2.236,8    2.484,0              .           .                4.761,4       38,7      39.6         .        -               78,3
StuturAl TreatLents  Icheck damo.  /j             ha.            1.150       1.150             .                       -      2.300    3.414,8    3.727,3              -.                           7.142,2       58,1      59,4         .                       117,5
Stream Banks Protection /k                            ha.           1.150       1.150             .                              2.300       303,5       331,3                        -.                  634,9       5,2       5,3                  ..              10,4
Timbe,r Trees /1                                      ha.           1.158        1.110            .           -           -      2.300   3,035D,.4.  ,..2.2_____-.                                         4,        51,6      51            .
Subtotal eOt-la"a treatenote                                                                                                                  9.030,3    9.B56,3                                          10.857,0    553,8    157,2            .        -310,8
1. Fann~er Tra ining                                 Adi            2.000       2.500        3.000       3.500                  11.050       743,8    1.014,9    1.311,3    1.633,0                    4.703,1       12,6      16,2      t9,9    23,9                72,6
2. study Tou.-
Local                                          trainee.            258         500         750       1.005                   2.500        99,6       217,5        351.3       499,9            . 1,165.3           1.7      3,5       5,3      7,3         .     17,8
F,orego                                        trainee.             10          10          i5           20           -          55 ...,,,,,2...8 1,,040A.5       675,I..6.2   ..L21.375         6.,t45.L  .......L  .....16.6      25.,5,,f. 34...7j62  9-
subtotal Study Tours                                                                                                                       1.053,5    1.258,0    2.026,8    2.875,7                - 7.214,0         17,9      20,1      3n,s    42.0          . 110,8
3.bt  Workeh.ps                                        n0.                 6           6           8           6            .         24       39.....2S.   4..A35.0 ....J8A  ..    99,A .L           ....LJiLI .......   .....,.   ..1JA.....
SboAl Trainio                                                                                                                             2.195,7    2.707,9    3.886,5    5.008,7                 .13.718,8         37,3      43,2      57.8    73,2          - 211,6
P. lquip.et
1. Prcnildept. Agriculture
Bead Tracers                                      no.               18 0                                                         10        64,0           .            -           .                    6 4,0      1,1         .         .        .                1.1
2. i.DpP
Digital Plotter/Planning Meter                    no.                1I                                                           1   1.025,6                          -..   1.025,6                              17,4                   .        ..             17,4
3. ooem
Digital Plotter/Planning Meter/lasr               s.-                                                                 .           1I    2.3I.a7,..  2____                                             ,375j ,,39J2                                                39..2
Sutoa  iguipamat                                                                                                                           3.397,1                         -                       - 3.397,1          57.8         ..                 ..             57,9
4-8D /ho                                            unit                 4            .                                   -4  27.534,2                        .                                       27.534,2    468,3            .                                468.3
Motocynlee Is                                       unt                 10       , 5              .                                  is15     L266.     ,5,j.                                             J59J      ,,fl      JJ.0           .
Su.btotal Vehicles                                                                                                                           28.8000,7       690,8            .29.491,5   589.8                                    11,0.                                588,8
B.  SpeiletSrise
LocalI Specialist                                peroonnuth              2           2            2           2                       8      271.0       295,8        318,5       339,9            -   1.225,1        4,6       4.7       4.8      5.0               19,1
Coordinator - Implementation Support             personeoth             12          12          12           12          12          60    1.219,3    1.331,0    1.433,1    1.S29,7    1.629,2    7.142,3            20,7      21,2      31.9    22,4      23,8    109.9
Catalyoto             i.                         s:taffyear              5          10          10           10          10          45      664,1    1.449,9    I.561,1    1.886,4    1.774,7    7.116,2            11.3      23,1      23.7    24,4      25.9    108.5
Internatioa        e iasit                       prnon-nsth          0,25         0.25        0.25        0,25            .           1 ,...,,.2UJ......24. .,....2.84.1   _39,,,,20L2               ... 096..32.  ....1...   4,,,..2  4....3..J,,,,.. 4.   _        17,_
SubtotalSpcals   Services                                                                                                                     2.397,6    3.342,0    3.597,6    3.839,0    3.403,8   16.580,0             40,8      53,3     94,7    56.5       49,8    254,6
1. Stud ieo In                                         luePoom                                                                             3,...32.a         278..n 7    299n 3      477i2 6 _____         1,43J4g        Lj5       44       4, 5     7-                 22__5
Total    . aeeta..t Costs                                                                                                                        107.428,6  85.875,2    9.319,7   10.529,9    3.403,8 216.557,2 1.827,0 1.369,8    141,6   153.9                    49,8 3.542,0
II. Seourreot Costs
A. 003*
4-ND                                  lue~~~~~~~~~~~~.peu,u                                                                     102.6       112,0       120,3        128,0       132,1       595,1        1,7      1,8       1,8      1,9       1,9      9,2
Noturcyt lee                          ~~~~~~~~~~luepsun                                                                          32 ...Zi    70D 0        75......2 .....8t.S  ......82A6    339...21.8 .....S.' .,...   1.....a.. .2    1L2 ...,.A2
Subtotal OuJ                                                                                                                                     134,7       182,0       195,5       208,0       214,7        934,9       2,3       2,9       3,0     3,0       3.0      14.3
Ttotal  .ecureentCos ts                                                                                                                               19.AS.0 .....22..  ....69L1  .287.,A  .           99.....30Si  3..LQ4  4...         ......   4,..1.d    . 2    t4  2,....2
Ttota                                                                                                                                             107.626,5  06.126,2    9.589,5  10.817,3    3.703,0 217.862,6 1.830,4 1.373,8    145,7   15n.1    54,1 3.562,0
\a Farmer con tribution 33%
\,8 nO0  ofthe treatmets sIll be vegetine-  Aod 20% mechanica.1
\c 75% of the- mehanica Itreotrnnts sill ke Lock and Spill.  Pan-e  contribution 66%; tools 34%.
\d 254of the mechanicaltreatmnts niI be  tone terraces.  Farme  contribution 85%; tools 154.
\e  05 ofthe vegetative  treatmnta sill be SALT.  Farmr contribution 81%; toolo 15%.
Xf 20% of the vegetative treatments sill be Vetiver.  Farm~er contribution 85%; tools 15%.
\g Nunneries to maLI a "clunpr  nt veti-ar At R0.0.55.
\h 10Inreeries/eaterehed.
\i TreatmentsA ofgully; 1800 clumps of  -etiver/ha.
\j 30 metere of checkdams/ha.   Fainr contribation ell be 50%
\k8 289 basboplents  per ha..
\1 49 plants per ha.
XeFor NaturalI resourne Conservation Specialist. Proo.Agr.. NABCT And LUPPD.>
XeFur catalysts. 
X0 Includes Baseline study and mid-term reviee;ea- rate as local consultants
Thu Feb 28 18:13:31 1997                                                                                                                          ~,.~
2-1 Land I4AsAgemnt- Pilot Activities



Sri Lanka
Environmental Action 1 Project
Table 4. Coessrnity Environment initiatives FaCilitY
Detailed Costs
w,antities                           Totals  oldn   otneca   (R,  '000)                           Totals Including  Mohnans    OS '0001
Unit   9798 98919 9900 001 02102 TotalA   97/98               9S/99                  polo 00/   01/02      Total    97/98   98/99   79/00   00/01    01/02   Total
I. Ifvest.sat Costs
A. Xnviron_antal FacilitY
IDA Contribution                                  amount                                                        69.463,8  74.726,2  59.754,5              - 203.944,5          - 1.107,9 1.135,7   873,6           - 3.117,1
GOSL Contribution                                 amount                                                         34___ 7312i.9.L    37.363.1   -              72____ 095.QI.0       5 b3.91  567,8L.                  1 ,121A
Subtotal Snviron ustal Facility                                                                                  - 104.195,8 112.069,2  59.754,5              - 276.039,5         - 1.661,8 1.703,5   873,6              4.238,9
B. Consultants to Apprase & Evaluate Proposals lumpsum                                                    3.320,5   3.624,7   3.902,8   4.165,9               -  15.014,0    56,5    57,S    59,3         60,9         -   234,5
C. Consultants to Monitor and Report Progress  lumpsus                                                           -   3.624,7   3.902,8   4.165,9   4.436,7  16.130,2              -    57,8    59,3    60,9    64,9   242,9
D. Feoesufor Cit izens                                lucopsom                                         ....-.......   2..9 ... .. 1      3.. .            _ -         1J2..0   0.. 0    0......0   0.0 ...L0 2
Tetel                                                                                                           3 .323.2 111.448,1 119.898,0  68.089,7   4.436,7 307.195,7           56,5 1.777,5 1.822,2   995,5    64,9 4.716,5
Thu Feb 20 08:52:00 1997
-44.6
4-1 Community IEnvironment Initiativas Facility



Annex 3
Table 8
SRI LANKA
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Credit Funds
(US$ million)
Category                     Total                 IDA Credit
Amount
1.       Civil and Field Works                  5.42                      3.38
2.       Vehicles, Equipment,                    3.11                     1.81
Materials and Office Furniture
3.        Consultant Services, Studies,          5.19                     5.19
Training
4.       Incremental salaries and                2.80                     2.04
operating costs
5.        Facility/Fund                          4.24                     2.37
____E_X__   Total                               20.76                     14.80



Annex 3
Table 9
SRI LANKA
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
Estimated schedule of credit disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year and  IDA                   Cumulative          Percentage of
Semester             Disbursements          Disbursements       Credit
(US$ million)         (US$ million)       Disbursed (%)
FY97/a
June 30, 1997                 0.70                0.70                5
FY98
December 31, 1997             1.00                1.70               11
June 30, 1998                 1.30                3.00               20
FY99
December31, 1998              2.20                5.20               35
June 30, 1999                2.20                7.40               50
FY00
December 31, 1999             2.60               10.00               68
June 30, 2000                 2.00               12.00               81
FY01
December 31, 2000             1.50               13.50               91
June 30, 2001                 0.60               14.10              95
13.03
FY02
June 30, 2002                 0.70               14.80              100
Total                          14.80               14.80              100
/a Includes PPF advance.






Annex 4
Page 1 of 18
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I.     The Project
A.     Summary of Project Scope and Obiectives
1.     The primary objective of the proposed project is to assist GOSL in strengthening the institutional
and policy framework for environmental management within which the Bank and other donors would
provide assistance in the environmental sector.  In particular, the project would  (i) support the
government's strategy of restructuring MTEWA's ED and strengthening CEA to carry out its analytical
as well as enforcement and monitoring responsibilities; (ii) support an ongoing effort to internalize
enviromnental considerations into the overall development planning process; and (iii) help GOSL take
immediate remedial measures to reverse the trend of environmental degradation through pilot programs of
participatory approaches to environmental management.
B.     Summag Project Description
2.     The project would comprise three major components: (a) Institutional Strengthening (US$12.5
million) for: (i) restructuring ED within MTEWA to allow it to play a central role in environmental
policy, planning and coordination at the national level; (ii) restructuring and strengthening CEA through
establishment and implementation of a staff development program, enhancement of the Industrial
Licensing and Inspection Program, development of environmental codes of practice for small industries,
improvement of capacity for EIA, and strengthening of the environmental information system; (iii)
provision of office and technical facilities to accommodate both ED and CEA. A detailed staffing plan for
restructuring ED and strengthening CEA has been agreed upon with MTEWA. Financing of the above
would include incremental staff, training, consultancy, vehicles, civil work, and equipment; and (iv) a
policy subcomponent that would include studies of the linkages between sector and economy-wide policies
and the environment. This subcomponent would also support an annual review of the environmental
implications of the PIP and an update of the NEAP. Finally, it would include a policy letter and a policy
action plan that would broadly define legal, institutional, and policy changes that are required for sound
environmental management. Formal covenants, however, would only be directly related to the proposed
project; (b) a Community Environmental Initiatives Facilitv (CEIF) (US$4.7 million) would be set up to
finance well-planned environmental activities at the grass-roots level within the priority NEAP/PIP
sectors (other donors could also contribute). CEIF would provide a mechanism for pooling resources and
is a vehicle for private sector and NGO participation and for decentralizing environmental activities; and
(c) a Pilot Land Management Component (US$ 3.5 million). Major emphasis would be on pilot areas of
degraded land for rehabilitation with community participation..
C.    Detailed Project Description
Institutional Strenathenin¢
3.     Environment Division of MTEWA. The ED of MTEWA would be restructured under the existing
two Additional Secretary positions. One Additional Secretary would be responsible for development of
environmental policies and programs through small professional Directorates focused on a range of
environmental sectors; the other would be responsible for administration of the ED and for monitoring
and evaluation of the extent to which national environmental policy is being effectively implemented.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 18
The project would support an increase of the cadre of professional and technical officers from the present
level of 12 to 30 (Fig. 1).
4.     The ED is proposed to operate under the direction of two Additional Secretaries reporting to the
Secretary in relation to policy and program development issues and coordination, monitoring, and
management issues, respectively. Directors under the Additional Secretary for Policy and Planning will
take responsibility for the formulation of national environmental policy and the development of programs
for policy implementation in natural resource management, international environmental issues, industrial
pollution prevention and control, environmental issues related to urban settlements, and legal matters,
respectively. Each will be supported by one or two staff at the Deputy or Assistant Director level. It is
expected that this small but professionally strong group would develop environmental policy and
programs by means of coordinating and leading task-oriented working groups of officers from
implementing agencies assisted by appropriate specialists and consultants where necessary.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 18
Figure I
ENVIRONMENT DIVISION STRUCTURE
Present        Recruitment         Final
cadre in-situ 1996 1997 1998 1999   cadre
Ad Sec Po icy & Plan's   I                                  1                                     1
Dir. Natural Resources                            1     1
ID. Director                            1      1 I
Asst. Director                 0     0            1         1      2
Dir. International Affairs|I                                                           I
I. Director                             1      1                              1
Dir. Industrial Sector                            I     0      1                 .    1
ID. Director                           1       0   _       I          _       1
|Asst. Director                0     0      1
Dir. Built Environment  I                        0      0      1
Asst. Director                0      0           1                  I
Dir. Legal        I                              0      0      1                       1
ID. Director                            0      0           1                  1
ID. Director Policy                     0      0      1                       1
JD. Director Prog.                      0      0     I  _        -
Add Sec ManaIerent                                          1     1 I
Dir. Monitor & Evaluationi                       0      0      1_=       =             1
D. Director                             0     0            I 1        1      2
|Asst. Director                0     0      1               _       1
S Asst. Sec Admin.     I                         0      0      1                       1
|Asst. Secretary               2     2                              2
ID. Director HRD    I                   0      0           1                 1
|Asst. Director                I     I                              I
|Accountant                  1       1                              1
TOTALS   12    10        9    6    0    2        27



Annex 4
Page 4 of 18
5.     Under the Additional Secretary (Management), there would be two additional positions. The
Senior Assistant Secretary would manage administration and financial matters, and a Director of Co-
ordination and Monitoring would be responsible for facilitating inter-ministry cooperation in the
development of policy and for monitoring the extent to which environmental policy is being adequately
implemented by other ministries and agencies.
6.     Central Environmental Authority. CEA would be restructured into three Divisions, each under a
Deputy Director General. This action should lead to a stronger management structure as well as providing
clearer career path opportunities for staff of the agency. The two core functions of the CEA are the
environmental assessment of new proposals and the control and prevention of pollution from existing
activities. These functions both involve two major tasks: pre-operational assessment and post-operational
enforcement. These two tasks will be integrated under one Deputy Director General (DDG2) for
pollution control matters and under a second Deputy Director General (DDGI) for the management and
evaluation of environmental impact assessment. The latter DDG will also be responsible for a small
research and project management group. The third DDG will be responsible for the environmental
promotion and public awareness program together with the administrative and financial functions.
Included in this functional area is a need for immediate development of a strong human resource
management ability to manage the recruitment of professional and technical staff, initially to fill existing
vacancies and thereafter to increase the staffing level to that necessary for the CEA to effectively carry out
its functions. Figures 2, 3, 4, and 5 summarize the organizational structure. Professional and technical
staff down to Level VI are shown for the existing approved cadre, the staff currently in situ and the
recruiting requirements for each of the years 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999; and the resultant 1999 cadre.
7.     Future regional offices will report directly to the Director General. Regional offices would be
expected to carry out a broad range of environmental tasks and will need day-to-day management. There
will also be a need to manage the issue of transition of these offices to provincial administration under the
devolution process. Therefore, a Director will be appointed to manage the development and operation of
the Regional Offices; the legal section of the agency will be placed under the Director General since they
will provide services across all activities of the agency. Figure 2 shows these relationships along with a
summary of the agency staff requirements.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 18
Figure 2
OVERALL STRUCTURE
Present      Recruitment     Final
cadre in situ 1996 1997 1998 1999 cadre
IDIRECTOR GENERAL                                             1    1    0    0    0    0    1
Deputy DGI                                            -         1
Deputy DG2                                            1    1                         1
Deputy DG3                                            -                              1
|Director Regons |                            0    0    )              =     1
lAsst. Director              2    0    2           2   =    4
|Env Off        |    4    0    2   _    4    2    8
Director Legal Services|                             0    0           1   = =    1
ID. Director Legal l1    1                                                  I =_   1
|Legal Officer    I                   1    1        _           1   2
Legal Asst.                 I    0                          I =    1   =    1
TOTAL       10   4    7    1   7    3   22
|AGENCY TOTAL       87   63   24   19  19   10  135
Division of Deputv Director General I
8.     It is expected that considerable efficiency gains should be available through effective feedback
between the assessment and enforcement tasks. On the one hand a clear understanding of the reasons for
some constraint being placed on an industry will enable the enforcement officer to tailor the enforcement
strategy to the importance of the issue. On the other hand, an understanding of the problems facing an
enforcement officer will be invaluable in ensuring enforceable conditions are forged during the assessment
process. Therefore under the project, the assessment and enforcement functions will be maintained within
Directorates dealing with pollution control and environmental assessment respectively (Figure 3).
9.     Although industry has a major role in monitoring discharges to the environment and the impact
of these discharges, there is a role for a government agency in monitoring the impact of non-point source
discharges such as urban and agricultural runoff, motor vehicles, and domestic fires.   Much of the
precise analysis and routine work can be contracted out but the CEA needs to maintain a capacity for
critical assessment of work undertaken by others and an ability to undertake preliminary analyses to
determine if a likely problem exists. This is best achieved by having a small group who can maintain
competence in the discipline with access to a limited range of laboratory facilities (see Laboratory Services
in Figure 3). The equipment already held, or in process of acquisition by the CEA, is adequate for this
purpose. Equipment for a moderate urban air quality monitoring program is to be provided under the
Colombo Urban Transport Project, but staff to support the operation and maintenance of the equipment
are included in this Division.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 18
Figure 3
DDG1 STRUCTURE
Present       Recruitment      Final
cadre in situ 1996 1997 1998 1999 cadre
Deputy Director General 1                                         0     0                           1 1
Dir. Pollution Control -                                 1    1                            1
1     1                                      1    ~      ~    ~       ~       ~~~~~1  1  1
D. Director     |1    1                                                           I
Asst. Director                         2    2                            2
Env Officer                    2    2      1          2    la   6
I|Env Asst.      l    2      1    1                     2
D. Director                                     1    0      1                     1
Asst. Director                         2    2                            2
Env Officer                    3     3                     11 b  6
|Env Asst        l    2      1          1   -     -    2
Dir. Pollution Control -                                 0     1                           1
2                                                                              _          _
D. Director     L                                     0           1               1
Asst. Director                         2    2                            2
|Env Officcr    l              3     3          1          2    6
I|Env Asst.      lI2         1    =     1               2
D. Director                                     1    0      1                     1
Asst. Director    |                    2    2                            2
Env Officer                    2    2      1          2    Ic   6
|Env Asst1    1                                         I 1
Director Lab Services                                    0    0                           1
D. Director Analysis                            0    0            1               1
|  | Chernist  X2                             1                     1    2
S. Lab Asst.         1    1                            1
D. Director Monitoring                          0    0            1               1
|Electronic En .                        0    0           X__   1    2
| Tech Asst.          3    3    =    =       =          3
TOTAL        35   30    8    7    5    7   57
Notes: a,b, c - redeployed from DDG3 Complaints
10.    Recruitment of staff to this division should emphasize the requirement for qualifications and
experience relevant to industrial processes and pollution control such as industrial chemistry, chemical,
wastewater, or environmental engineering and environmental science. As far as is possible, emphasis
should be placed on qualifications that include significant content dealing with industrial pollution
control.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 18
Division of Deputv Director General 2
11.    The process of environmental impact assessment from initiation to the enforcement of conditions
of approval is the core activity of this Division. It is recognized, however, that for many of the projects
undergoing EIA the industrial expertise of officers from the Pollution Control Directorates will be
invaluable.  It is therefore anticipated that appropriate officers will form task teams to assist in
assessments. Where a proposal or part of a proposal approved through the EIA process also requires
environmental protection licensing, then staff of the Pollution Control Directorates would be expected to
undertake ongoing inspection and enforcement. Staff of EIA Directorate would monitor and enforce the
"non-industrial" aspects of the conditions of approval.
12.    Other activities that can sensibly be accommodated in this Division are the management of
externally funded projects such as the wetlands project funded through aid from the Netherlands
Government and a small research group that would include responsibility for development of an
environmental information system. Provision has also been made for the creation of a small group
responsible for overseeing the proper management of industrial solid and hazardous wastes.
Figure 4
DDG2 STRUCTURE
Present       Recruitment     | Final
cadre  in  1996 1997 1998 1999 cadre
situ
Deputy Director General 2                                       1    1                           1
Director EIA                                            1    0    1  _I__               1
ID. Director    I                               1    1                          1
Asst. Director                        2    2           1         -    3
|Env Officer    l             5    5                           5
|En Asst.             3    2                I3
Dir. Pro &Research  I                                  0    0                           1
Sr. Res Officer                        1    0    1  -        1         2
|Research Officer              1    0    1   =    =            1
Programer  |                1    0          1               1
|Statistical Asst.    1    0           1               1
D. Dir. Prog                                   0    0          1                1
|Project Officer   |          contract   2
Director Waste Mgt                                     0    0           1               1
Asst Director                         0    0                 1    1    2
|Env Ofrilcer                 0    0                2    2    4
1TOTAL       17   11   4    5    5    3    2
Division of deputv Director General 3
13.    The administrative and financial management of the CEA will be the responsibility of Deputy
Director General 3 (see Fig. 5). Two important new initiatives are proposed to be included in this
Division. A small Human Resource Development directorate is proposed to improve the management of



Annex 4
Page 8 of 18
staff recniitment and to develop and manage the implementation of programs and proposals aimed at
providing greater incentives for recruitment and retention of staff and in the longer term to assist local
and provincial authorities in recruitment and training of appropriate environmental staff. It is essential
that these positions be filled as soon as possible as their first task will be to manage the recruitment of
staff to fill the existing CEA vacancies.
14.    A unit would also be established to deal with the approximately 300 complaints directed to the
CEA each month. Most of these complaints should and can be dealt with by Local Authorities, and the
proposed unit would make preliminary investigation of complaints, administer the redirection of
complaints to Local Authorities or the CEA's Pollution Control Directorates, follow-up with Local
Authorities, and issue Directions to Local Authorities where necessary. Effective operation of this unit,
combined with improved public awareness of the Local Authorities' enviromnental responsibilities should
enable a reduction in staff resources within two or three years. By this time these staff will be famniliar
with a wide range of environmental issues and can be transferred to the EIA or Pollution Control
Directorates to deal with the expected increasing workload.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 18
Figure 5
DDG3 STRUCTURE
Present   _  Recruitment    Final
cadre  in  1996 1997 1998 1999 cadr
situ                       e
|Deputy Director General 3                                        0    O=              =-
Dir Prom & Awareness                                     1 1                              1
D. Dir. Publicity                .               1    1                          1
Audio-vis Off                  0    0           1               1
I|Audio-vis Tech        1    1               _   _    1
D. Dir. Awar &                                   1    1                          1
Edu
EnvPromOff |1 1P                          =    =     =    =
IEnv Asst.              1    1                     1    2
Snr Librarian                           1    1                          1
Asst. Librarian        I    I                        
Director HRD                                             0    0    I                      1
|Asst. Director                          0    0       i       1         2
|Dirctor Admin                                           1 1                              1
D. Dir.                                         le   le                    -le   0
Cornplaints
Asst. Director                         1    0    41 =         d  -    1
|Env Off                        0    O           1   = 3        O
|Asst. Dir. Admin                       1    0           1              1
|Admin Officer                  0    0   __=    1               1
Transport Off    |    1_   1                           1
Staff Assistant        1    0          1               1
D. Dir. Proc &                                   0    0          1               1
Serv
SupplyOff                    -1= =_      _=
I Storekeeper           I 1                   1        1
Director Finance                                         1    1                           1
Internal Auditor                         1    1                          1
Accountant                      1    1                          1
Account Asst.                  2    1                1          2
Cashier                         1    0          1               1
ITOTALS       25   19    7    6    2   -3  31
Notes:  a,b,c, - redeploy to DDG1 Licensing;
d, - redeploy to Ass Director HRD;
e - supernumerary to approved cadre



Annex 4
Page 10 of 18
Cadre Requirements
15.    The positions indicated by a shaded number in the 1996 columns of Figures 2, 3, 4, and 5 are
those not available under currently approved cadre and considered essential to the effective introduction of
the proposed new organizational structure. The two additional positions of Deputy Director General will
require approval of increased cadre numbers; the other essential positions can be gained by variation in
the approved nomenclature or salary scale of currently approved cadre positions (Fig. 6).
Figure 6
CADRE VARIATIONS
Position required                       Position gained from
Deputy Director General 1                 New cadre
Deputy Director General 2                 New cadre
Director Regions                          Environmental Officer Regions
Director Laboratory Services              Chemist Laboratory Services
Director Programs & Research              Environmental Officer Regions
Environmental Officer Complaints          Environmental Assistant Pollution Control
Environmental Officer Complaints          Environmental Assistant Pollution Control
Director Human Resource Development       Accounts Assistant Finance
Assistant Director Human Resource         Legal Assistant Legal
Development                                                                        l
Assistant Director Procurement and Services   Research Officer Research (Urban Planner)
Contracting Out of Services
16.    Many of the tasks traditionally undertaken by environmental protection agencies are open to
consideration for contracting out services.  In approximate order of increasing complexity of the
contracting-out process, these tasks include:
(i)   evaluation of EIA and IEE reports;
(ii)  environmental and industrial sampling and analysis;
(iii)  regular inspection of licensed premises;
(iv)  assessment of license applications and setting of license conditions;
(v)   compliance audit of licenses;
(vi)  industry site evaluation;
(vii) response to pollution complaints; and
(viii) gathering of evidence for prosecutions.
17.    However, it needs to be clearly recognized that in contracting out such services, the contractor is
not being asked to make decisions that are rightly the province of the CEA. The contractor should
undertake appropriate investigations and provide the CEA with advice. Such advice may take the form,
for instance, of a detailed set of license conditions, but the final decision on what conditions are placed on
a license rests with the CEA.
18.    For all the above tasks except item (i), the contractor would need statutory powers to enter
property. These powers are provided for in section 24A of the National Environmental Act in relation to
duly authorized officers but is unlikely to be able to be extended to contractors. However, section 101 (3)



Annex 4
Page 11 of 18
of the proposed National Environmental Protection Act' makes adequate provision for the appointment of
contractors as inspectors.
19.    Figure 7 provides an indication of the likely effects on the resources needed by CEA that might
be brought about by various levels of contracting out services. The figures are based on task levels
expected in 1997.
Figure 7
CONTRACTING OUT CEA TASKS
Task   Number  Average  Approx. Approx.  Approx.    Approx.    Possible    Residual
(see  of actions time per contract contract  contract    CEA      reduction in    CEA
above) per year   action    hours    rate      cost    professional  CEA staff  expenditure
Rs        Rs       staff now
used                            l
___        30      150    4500       460   2,070,000      10          5          50%
ii        200       14    2800       500   1,400,000       5          4           5%
iii      5500        3    16500      400   6,600,000      16          10         10%
iv        320       15    4800       450   2,160,000       6           4         20%
v         700       18   12600       450   5,670,000      14         10          10%
vi        400        8    3200       420   1,344,000       5           4          10%
vii      3000       2.5    7500       400   3,000,000      8           6          10%
viii        30       60     1200      450    540,000        2           1         10%
22,784,000     66          44
20.    The project would provide technical assistance for a contract undertaking industry inspections
and drafting of licenses for a representative district of Colombo. This would be a pilot program for
evaluating the feasibility of contracting out such services on a larger scale.
Revenue Generation
21.    In addition to being a mechanism for controlling the potentially polluting activities of industries,
the licensing of industries generates revenue. The CEA currently receives about Rs5 million in fees from
about 2000 licensed premises - an average of about Rs2500 per year from each licensed premises. There
is scope for increasing this revenue on the basis of two principles: the cost of regulation should be borne
most by those requiring most attention; and those requiring to use the environment for discharge and
dispersion of wastes should be charged for such use.
22.    Some work has already been undertaken to develop a load-based fee structure in respect of
wastewater discharges. Further technical assistance is provided under the project to develop the detail of
an extensive load-based licensing system, initially for liquid effluents and potentially for other wastes. The
TOR for the technical assistance should include a requirement to determine a scheme of fees that will
raise sufficient revenue to cover the full costs of the current and future pollution control activities of the
CEA and local and provincial authorities.
I      Ninth penultimate composite draft, April, 1995.



Annex 4
Page 12 of 18
Policy Subcomponent
23.    The objective of the policy component is to develop and institutionalize a framework for the
consideration of economic-environmental linkages in Sri Lanka. Toward this end, the component will
support: (i) studies to further analyze the policy implications of economic-environmental linkages at the
macro- and sector-specific levels. Box 1 provides a list of studies that were identified during project
preparation; (ii) dissemination of reports on the State of Sri Lanka's Environment and an update of the
NEAP; and (iii) workshops to reinforce broad ownership and improve adherence to sound environmental
principles, with participation of government representatives and other concerned stakeholders.
Box 1. Studies
1.  Provide detailed, historical analysis of economic and regulatory factors affecting incentives
for resource use. These factors should include direct sectoral policies or regulations, as well
as possible indirect determinants of sectoral incentives. This should augment the existing
work based on the Action Impact Matrix used for project formulation.
2.  Undertake empirical, quantitative assessment of incentives distortions.
3.  Analyze potential contribution and costs of alternatives policy reform measures.
4.  Continue implementation of the Decision Support System pollution model for specific
industries and for key pollution 'hot spots"
5.  Joint MTEWA/NPD studies on environmental issues associated with development strategies
on growth patters anticipated by forward looking strategies such as "Sri Lanka 2000"
6.  Study to identify policy and technical options to conserve groundwater.
7.  Study to assess environmental effects of agricultural pricing policy.
8.  Study to recommend ways to focus public sector resources for biodiversity protection by
encouraging private sector provision of services in protected areas.
9.  Study to recommend policy options to control plastic waste.
10. Study to recommend policies to promote markets for waste recycling.
11. Study to recommend incentives for non-coral based lime.
12. Recommendations of fiscal incentives to promote renewable energy.
13. Policy options for introducing unleaded petrol and low sulfur diesel.
14. Study to recommend more effective performance bonds for the mining industry.
15. Review of ways to target the fertilizer subsidy to small farmers and reduce its environmental
consequences.
24.    Monitoring of Policy Agenda. A Policy Letter and a time-bound Policy Action Plan will assist
the government in reviewing macro- and sector-wide policies with impact on the environment. The policy
letter spells out the institutional and legal changes and broadly sets out the policy changes required for
sound environmental management. Moreover, the policy letter would serve as a vehicle for updating the
needed measures as well as a framework for the dialogue with donors. A Policy Action Plan, satisfactory
to IDA, is included in Annex 2. These policies would form an integral part of the ongoing IDA-assisted
projects and the joint Policy Framework Paper (PFP) dialogue with the government.
Pilot Land Management Component
25.    Soil erosion, deforestation, and other forms of watershed degradation endanger not only the
future productivity of the agricultural uplands but also the sustainability of Sri Lanka's huge investment in
hydropower, irrigation, and agricultural resettlement programs. This component is designed to use
available land use information to identify heavily degraded soils in the Central Province and addresses on
a pilot basis some of the most pressing problems with a view to finding approaches to minimize the
adverse effects.



Annex 4
Page 13 of 18
26.     The objectives would be to (i) test and develop on a watershed basis suitable technologies for
minimizing the extent of land degradation, thereby increasing agricultural productivity as well as
reducing the risk of erosion and its associated on-farm and off-farm impacts; (ii) examine feasibility of
participatory management of microwatersheds by the beneficiaries; (iii) define technical criteria and
investment criteria useful in replicating watershed development activities in other hilly areas.
27.     The pilot activities would be carried out in the hilly wet zone area of Sri Lanka's mid- and upper
country of the Central Province.    They would cover an area of about 10 representatives in
microwatersheds (600 to 1,000 ha each) selected in sub-watersheds so as to cover a optimal range of
micro-agroecological environment (with varying rainfall, slope and soil conditions).  Project success
criteria would, however, not be based on physical targets but on the development and adoption of
appropriate site-specific strategies, techniques, and treatments to address land degradation. The project
adopts a holistic approach and uses a participatory approach to involve both local populations and
government officials from the planning stage through implementation and assessment of project results.
The project would cover activities on the farmer's field, on communal lands, and on state lands within the
microwatersheds. Key elements of the project strategy focus on stabilizing upland farming by increased
control on resources.
28.     The proposed on-farm treatments should ensure flexibility to tailor the proven treatments to the
specific characteristics of the watersheds. Flexibility should include not only the adoption of site specific
measures to cover a wide range of micro-ecological environments but also the prospect of a combination
of, where appropriate and possible, both vegetative and limited engineering solutions. The proposed
treatments would seek to combine affordable, simple, and replicable technologies with greater reliance on
contour cultivation, in situ moisture conservation, and vegetative contour hedges/strips (porous barriers)
with short-term income generating goals suitable to the small size of the average land holdings (under 1
ha per farm family). The range of interventions would incorporate elements of the Sloping Agricultural
Land Technology (SALT) by encouraging the planting of leguminous shrubs, grasses (including vetiver),
and tree crops along the bunds of existing terraces or along contours in unterraced lands. These soil
stabilization and moisture retention treatments would complement mixed farming systems of food crops,
fruit and timber tress, and estate crops. Farmers would be provided with technical advise and limited
purchased inputs, with major emphasis being on proven labor intensive techniques and low-cost
treatments, with the farmer contributing his labor as a major input.
29.     Treatments on non-arable land (range lands, wastelands, degraded forests) and natural drainage's
courses would include treatments such as vegetative fencing, stabilization through vegetative contour
barriers, contour furrowing, diversion drains, gully control and bank stabilization through vegetative
measures, storage, and management of runoff in natural depressions/partially dug out structures with low
dams to promote the recharge of groundwater, and decongest blocked drainage lines. To support these
works, the project would provide funds to meet the costs of land use mapping, land use planning, crop
inputs, seedlings, vegetative and mechanical treatments, demonstration plots, mass awareness, training,
vehicles, equipment, consultancy services, incremental staff, and operating costs.



Annex 4
Page 14 of 18
II.    Implementation Arrangements
Community Environment Initiatives Facility
30.    Administration. MTEWA would be responsible for the administration of the facility. Through
media announcements, MTEWA would call for proposals from local government agencies, NGOs,
community groups, and research organizations on an annual basis. MTEWA would select a consultant
firm in accordance with IDA guidelines for the purpose of appraising and evaluating all proposals
received by MTEWA. The selected firm would have professional and technical staff including a Natural
Resource Management Specialist, and an Urban/Industrial Specialist for the purpose of appraising and
evaluating all the proposals received by MTEWA. The firm would take into consideration technical and
financial aspects as well as eligibility and selection criteria. Media announcements calling for proposals
and the selection of consultants for review of proposals would be a condition of Board Presentation.
31.    A Committee would be responsible for administration and management of the facility. The
Committee would comprise of the Secretary, MTEWA (Chairman), Secretary, Finance, one NGO
representative of NGOs involved in environment and conservation, one representative from research or
the academic community with interest in environmental issues, and one representative from the private
sector. The last three named shall be appointed by the Minister, MTEWA, through a transparent selection
process for a period of one year. All proposals received by MTEWA would be evaluated by the consultants
and would be submitted to the Committee with a recommendation of acceptance/rejection and a priority
listing of proposals. The Committee would make the decision on funding after IDA review of the selected
proposals. After a decision was made on funding, a would be prepared by MTEWA providing details of
successful proposals and the basis for selection; copies will be sent to all applicants. The Environment
Division of MTEWA would be responsible for the overall coordination and would prepare a manual prior
to commencement that would outline the procedures to be followed in operation of the Facility and
guidelines to applicants. A summary outline of the contents of the manual has been agreed and supplied
to MTEWA. Preparation of the manual, including a draft participation agreement between MTEWA and
the participatory organization (see below), would be a condition of negotiations. Appointment of the
Committee would be a condition of Board Presentation.
32.   Implementation. The local government authorities, NGOs, and community groups would identify,
prepare, implement, and manage the subprojects. In order to be eligible, organizations should (i) be a
legal entity; (ii) have at least three years of experience dealing with environmental issues; (iii) be
experienced in organizing and assisting community groups; and (iv) have adequate administrative and
financial capacity to undertake the activity. An Agreement would be entered into between MTEWA and
the participatory organization. The implementing agencies would be the owners of the local subprojects
from the start, and therefore fully responsible for the operation and maintenance in accordance with
agreed financial and reporting procedures. The local government and line agencies would contribute 20%
of the subproject cost. The subprojects involving local communities and NGOs would include a minimum
beneficiary contribution of 20% as labor, material, or cash.
33.    Monitoring and Supervision. All activities funded out of CEIF will be reviewed and evaluated on
a semiannual basis. MTEWA would appoint a firm of consultants in accordance with IDA guidelines to
review progress, undertake an evaluation, and prepare a progress report on a semiannual basis.
Monitoring would be the responsibility of a Citizens Panel comprising of five representatives. Two
representatives from GOSL, (one from MTEWA and the other from Ministry of Finance/Planning), one
environment-related NGO representative, one private sector representative, and one representative from
a research institution and/or universities. The panel would be appointed by the Minister, MTEWA,
through a transparent selection process and will meet twice a year to review progress and evaluate reports
prepared by independent consultants appointed for the purpose. Funding of the consultants' evaluation
would be met out of the project. The Panel would review the reports of the consultants and make



Annex 4
Page 15 of 18
recommendations, if any, to the Secretary, MTEWA, with a copy to IDA. Copies of the monitoring and
progress report of the consultants would also be sent to each of the agencies participating in the facility.
34.    Accounts. For the first year a block allocation of the equivalent of US$0.2 million has been
made by GOSL through budgetary sources into the sub-account maintained by MTEWA. Budgetary
provision for the Facility would be a condition of effectiveness. IDA would replenish the Facility upon
submission of a withdrawal application. GOSL would contribute a further US$0.5 million twelve months
later, and the IDA contribution would be US$2.37 million. Other donors would also be invited to
contribute to the Fund. IDA replenishment of the fund would be reviewed following a mid-term
evaluation. In order to monitor the performance of the project-financed grants and ensure they are utilized
for the intended purposes, the implementing agencies would be required to maintain separate accounts for
the funds received and expenditures incurred. These accounts of individual recipients would be subject to
audit by a recognized firm of auditors. MTEWA would prepare a consolidated statement of the accounts
and incorporate the receipts and expenditures, including funds received from donors, and prepare periodic
reports including the overall progress of the subprojects.
Pilot Land Management Component
35.    Microcatchments (MCs) have been identified during project preparation. In view of the varying
gradients, rainfall, and soil conditions in the hill country, a representative mix of MCs have been selected
for this pilot to test appropriate technology and treatments. Project implementation would be through an
interactive planning process, whereby implementing agencies work together with villagers to prepare and
implement a plan across a microcatchment. Villagers, backed by technical advise provided by the Field
Extension Team,2 would select from a menu of interventions that are appropriate to the site. Five MC
plans sufficient for the first year's project implementation and approved by the Provincial Steering
Committee (PSC) would be prepared no later than September 30, 1997. Five other MCs plans sufficient
for the second year's project implementation would be prepared no later than April 30, 1998. The forms
and content of the MCs plans would be reviewed and approved by IDA.
36.    Central Level. The project uses the strength of existing institutions. The MAL&F would be
responsible for the execution of the pilot activities in close consultation and collaboration with the
MTEWA, the Department of Agriculture (DOA), the Provincial Council, and the Provincial Ministry of
Agriculture (PDA). The Secretary, MAL&F, would be IDA's main contact regarding implementation of
the land management component. He would be assisted by the existing Project Directors Office within
MAL&F in Colombo and by the Director, Natural Resources Management Center (NRMC). There would
be a sub-Committee (Land Steering Committee [LSC]) of the SC, chaired by the Secretary, MAL&F, to
review progress of the project. LSC will include the Secretary, MTEWA, Chief Secretary, and Secretary of
Agriculture (Central Province), Director General Agriculture, Project Director, SCOR, senior officials
from relevant government agencies, Director, NRMC, Director, Land Use Policy Planning Division
(LUPPD), Provincial Director, MAL&F, representatives of NGOs/communities, and the private sector.
LSC would meet twice a year and prepare progress review reports for the SC.
37.    Provincial Level. The implementation of the pilot activities would be by the NRMC and PDA in
close consultation and assistance from LUPPD. There would be a Provincial Steering Committee (PSC)
chaired by the Chief Secretary and comprising of senior representatives of the MAL&F and MTEWA,
the Director General Agriculture, and the Directors of the NRMC and Land Use Policy Planning Division
(LUPPD) of the MAL&F. The committee will meet 4 times/year to review progress and approve the
2      The Field Extension Team comprising Agricultural Instructors (Al) from the Provincial Department of Agriculture (Provincial
DOA), Al from the Inter-provincial Schemes, Livestock Development Instructors, Extension Officers from the Department of
Export Agriculture, and the Coconut Development Officers from the Cultivation Board have been established under the Second
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 2380-CE).



Annex 4
Page 16 of 18
microcatchment plans. PSC will be served by the Provincial Implementation Unit (para. 40). The project
would provide for a Specialist in Natural Resources Management (NRM) and an accountant. The NRM
specialist would be posted in the Central Provincial Council and would be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation and operation of the component under the supervision of the Chief Secretary Central
Province Provincial Council. Consultancies would be provided to the PDA to monitor the work relating
to participatory land use mapping and planning, and community group formation (user groups and
farmer organization and in participatory plan formulation). An estimated nine personmonth of technical
assistance would be required. Conditions of Disbursement would be: (a) a Memorandum of
Understanding, satisfactory to IDA, between MTEWA, MAL&F and Provincial Department of
Agriculture (PDA) of the Central Province shall have been concluded and entered into effect; (b) the LSC
shall has been established; (c) the Natural Resource Management Specialist and catalysts required for the
first year's implementation program have been recruited and (d) the standard 30 year lease agreement
requiring lessees to carry out land management practices satisfactory to the Forestry Department and IDA
is in effect (para. 6.3). In addition, assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOSL will ensure that
its Forestry Department extend the term of existing permit holders on reservations for a minimum period
offive years subject to the lessee carrying out the management practices stipulated (para. 6.1 (m)). The
memorandum will define the responsibilities, obligations, and linkages in watershed management between
the MAL&F/DOA, MTEWA, and the Province. It will stipulate that MTEWA would be involved in the
formulation, overall management at the national level, preparation of the work plan, and review of
activities. The work plan would be approved by the SC.
38.     The Provincial Director for Agriculture, the Provincial Director of Animal Production and
Health, the Divisional Secretary, a representative of a leading NGO, and a representative of the farming
community, supplemented by technical personnel, would form a team (Provincial Implementation Unit).
The team would be responsible for identification of priority microcatchments (MCs), coordination of field
work, and joint interactive planning of selected treatments options. In close consultation with other
agencies, the Provincial Director of Agriculture & Land Development would be responsible for selection
of MCs, for coordination of work, and for the determination of the MC plans. The criteria for selection of
MCs will include: (i) the severity of problems in terms of vegetative degradation and soil erosion; (ii) the
prospects for achieving an adequate return to the treatments supported by the project; and (iii) the extent
to which the problems are recognized by the MC population and for which there is willingness to explore
solutions; and (iv) the relevance of the pilots both in terms of replicability of techniques and treatments
and the feasibility of participatory community approaches to land management issues over the whole MC.
The areas selected as MC would be located with the assistance of LUPPD on the GIS maps. The latter
would form the data base for project implementation and would be continually updated for monitoring and
evaluation.
39.    Microcatchment Level. The Provincial Implementation Unit would appoint MC planning teams.
MCs will be the center piece of the organizational structure. The composition of the MC planning group
would vary according to the characteristics of the particular MC. It would include a technical officer from
NRMC, the relevant Field Extension Team members (on a non-full-time basis), the field level forest
officer, a representative of the Farmer Organization3 (FO), the provincial staff assigned to the project, one
catalyst/500 ha, and one senior catalyst/10 catalysts on a full-time basis. No staff are expected to be
permanently located in the MCs. The catalysts would have at least 10 year's relevant experience and
would work under the direct supervision of the Agricultural Officer of the PDA in charge of the area.
They would help form and develop user groups, help them make resource-use maps and plans, and guide
farmers as they implement recommended technical recommendations. The MC planning team in each
province would be responsible for the initial interaction with the MC village and the resulting indicative
plan.  This would include the activities that would be undertaken on state lands by the FO, such as
reforestation on the upper reaches that are denuded and other torrent control, gully plugging,
checkdarriming on public areas, community participation activities on communal lands, and individual
3      In almost every village, there is a farner organization registered under the Agrarian Services Act



Annex 4
Page 17 of 18
treatments on farmer lands. The streams and drainage reservations located adjacent to private land are
expected to be managed by the landowners or the land users. As an incentive, such lands would be leased
to the users by a suitable arrangement. Fruit and forest trees will be promoted in these lands. The large
tracts of state land in degraded forest land will be leased to the private sector for planting of perennial
fruits and forest trees on long-term lease agreement consistent with the program of the Forest Department
and National Forest Policy.
40.    Microcatchment planning. Microcatchment planning is the key element to interaction with local
population. The building blocks of the MC plans are the village plans formulated through close
interaction over problems and solutions in each of the MC villages. The time required to prepare the
indicative MC plan would depend on the number of villages in the MC, but an average of one month is
considered reasonable. After selection of the MC, which includes confirmation of local interest, the first
step in the planning process entails the marshaling of existing information (data and maps). Sri Lanka is
fortunate in having a GIS data base that provides a good basis for such planning. Active farmer's
involvement and community participation regarding the planning and implementation of project actions is
an essential feature of MC planning. Using a 'farmer centered-problem census, problem solving" (FC-
PCPS),4 the MC planning process involves the following steps: (i) village discussions of problems and
constraints and presentation of the menu of treatments provided for under the project, including cost
sharing arrangements; (ii) village discussions of solutions and priorities (selections from the menu); (iii)
preparation of draft village plans; (iv) village discussions of draft plans; and (v) finalization of an
indicative MC plan aggregating the village plans. The FC-PCPS process is expected to ensure that the
interventions respond to the perceived local needs and priorities and that a genuine commitment to, and
responsibility for, the success of the project is generated.
41.    The outcome of this interaction would be agreements on an 'Indicative MC Plan" summarizing
and aggregating the analysis of available data; the results of the FC-PCPS process; the type, volume, and
phasing of different treatments selected from the menu; and the extent of cost and benefit sharing for each
investment. The budget for each microcatchment will obviously vary according to the population and site
characteristics. Plans would be reviewed by the Provincial Director of Agriculture & Land Development.
After approval, detailed implementation plans would be agreed upon with the participating community
members and groups and commitments would be recorded in writing.
42.    To ensure the provision of high quality planting materials, as well as to diminish transportation
problems, the project would also support the development of village-based nurseries organized by private
nurseryman. All efforts would be made to ensure that these nurseries, once established, would constitute
the major supplier of planting material to the on-farm/off-farm treatments and that the planting material
would be purchased by the project at competitive market rates based on pre-determined standards.
43.    Training. The formal training would be organized by the Human Resources Development Center
(HRDC) of the DOA with the assistance of the NRMC, the PDA, and the Forest Department. The
necessary resource personnel will be obtained from the relevant organizations. The HRDC would be
supported by a training specialist who would develop training modules for formal training. Pre-service
training and in-service training would be provided to the project team members and catalysts at the
Inservice Training Institute, Gannorouwa. Training of villagers in MC planning and in different treatment
options would also be provided and study tours arranged to adjacent areas where alternative treatments or
organizational arrangements have been tried. The farmer training would be done in community centers
and District Training Centers in the Province.
44.    Adaptive Research. A flexible approach would be followed for adaptive research covering in situ
vegetative soil and moisture conservation measures, with new topics added as appropriate. Research
activities would include: (i) run-off trials to estimate soil losses from arable and non-arable land on
4      Established under the Second Agricultural Externsion Project.



Annex 4
Page 18 of 18
varying slopes; and (ii) testing, demonstrations, and cost effectiveness of various bioengineering approach
to soil and water conservation.
45.     Studies. Provision will be made under the project for a baseline study incorporating a survey that
would be undertaken by a consultant group. Provision will also be made for a mid-term evaluation and
for studies that are relevant and useful to the overall goals of the project. This includes, interalia, (i) the
impact of project interventions on farm incomes and generation of alternatives uses for family labor; (ii)
the impacts of land-tenure arrangements on productivity and adoption of conservation interventions; (iii)
the impact of agricultural pricing policy, particularly import controls on incentives to invest in soil
conservation. Finally, provision will be made for a comprehensive survey and evaluation on project
completion that will form the basis for analyzing the results of this pilot operation, the cost effectiveness,
and feasibility of various site-specific techniques and treatments, the success in introducing and
integrating participatory community approaches in tackling land management problems, and developing a
package of proven strategies and treatments that could be replicable over a wider area in the hilly regions.
46.     Role of the Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs).  NGOs would be encouraged to
participate in the subproject design and implementation. Because several NGOs have considerable
experience with community development, they could help in at least four ways: (i) by extending informal
advise to staff from the line agencies upon request; (ii) by conducting training courses for line agency
staff, under contract, to teach methods of participatory assessment in village preferences; (iii) by designing
and implementing, under contract, systems for monitoring and evaluation of baseline status and project
progress; (iv) by implementing, under contract, a MC plan.
III.    Implementation Schedule
47.     Tables 1, 2, 3, and 4 generated by the Microsoft Project show overall project scheduling and
detailed schedule of activities for the Institutional Component, the Community Environmental Facility
Component, and the Land Management Component. The schedules are backed by P.E.R.T. charts (in
Annex 9) that demonstrate activity linkages.
Feb. 20, 1997
M:\Mbascon\Srilanka\EAIP\package\annex4.imp



Environmental Action 1 Project
Supervision Plan
6             1997             1998             1999              2000             2001              2002
ID    Task Name                      Duration     Start      3 Q4  Q1 Q2| Q3 Q4  Q102| 03 04 Q1 02Q 4| Q4 Q Q 0                           Qi Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
1    Board Presentation                    Od      3/25/97
____________________________                    v   ~~Tue   3/25
2    Credit Effectiveness (target date)    Od      6/16/97
3    Launch Workshop                       3d      6/16/97       Mon 6/16  Pr.S [0.5],E.E.,E.I.S.,A S.,D.S.[0.5],P.S.
4    First Supervision                    2w       10/6/97            A.S.E.I.S.     0/6
5    Second Supervision                   2w       2/23/98                  A.S.,E.I.S.  Mon 2/23
6    First In-Depth Review                3w       9/30/98
8410 5] A.S.,P.S40.5],E.E.[0.71,E.I.S.
7    Third Supervision                    2w       4/21/99                                      A.S.,E.I.S.j Wed 4/21
8    Second In-Depth Review               3w       6/30/00                             S.[0.5],E.E.,A.S.,P.S.[0.5],Pr.S.[0.35],E.l.S. [ Fri S[A. 3
9    Fourth Supervision                   2w       1/19/01                                                                    A.S.,E.l.S.
10   Fifth Supervision                     2w       8/3/01                                                                              E.l.S.,A.S.  Fri 8/3
11   Sixth Supervision                     2w       3/1/011                                                                        Thu 311 | A.S.[.5],E.l.S.
12   Completion Review                     3w     12/31/02       e                                                                            E.I.S.,A.S.,E.E.,P.S.[0.5],S[0-.S
P.S.- Policy Specialist: 5.5 sw
iPr.S.- Procurement Specialist: 1.5 sw
E.E. - Environmental Economist: 9.0 sw
E.l.S. - Environmentaliinstitution Specialist: 22.0 sw
.S. - Agricultural Specialist: 21.0 sw
D.S. - Disbursement Specialist: 0.5 sw
- Sociologist: 4.5 sw
Total:         64.0 sw
Task Summary~~~~~~~~~~~ Rolled Up Progress 
Project: Environmental Action I Proje  Tas                                    Sumar                                    RoldUPors
Supervision  Plan Progress                                                    Rolled Up Task 1
2120197 C:\winproj\sri\env\EA1 P.sup                                                                                                                                           x
Milestone          *Rolled Up Milestone                                                                                            tJ 4.>_
Page 1



Environmental Action 1 Project
Supervision Plan
2003             2004      |     2005             2006       |     2007      |      2008             2009      [      2010             2011      |     2012
Q1 Q2|Q3JQ4  Q1 02|Q3|Q42JI       Q1 QQ34[Q1  02  03  Q4Q1  0Q20Q3lQ4 1Q1|Q2|Q3Q41Q1 |Q2|Q3                            41  Q2|2 Q3 Q4  Q1|Q20Q3|Q4;Q10Q2|03|Q41Q1
Tue 12/31
Page 2



Environmental Action 1 Project
Institutional Strengthening Component
Implementation Schedule
1996      1997   11998        1999      2000     2001      2002       2003      20
ID   Task Name                                               Duration       Start
1    EAlP - INST. STRENTHENING COMPONENT                        2159d        1/31/96
2        Pre-Project Activities                                  424d        1/31/96
3            Submit Draft TA TORsto IDA                           17w        1/31/96  *  1
4            Submit Draft Training Program to IDA                 17w        1/31/96 *   1
5            Submit Draft Studies & Research TORs to IDA          17w        1/31/96 *   1
6            Submit List of Project Performance Indicators        17w        1/31/96
100
7            Submit Detailed Plans for Project Mont. & Evalu.     17w        1/31/96 *   1
8            Preparation of LOI Packages for TA                   34d       10/15/96
10/15 
9            IDA No Objection to LOI Package for TA                1w        12/2/96     12/2  100
10           Bidders Prepare Proposals                             57d        1/10/97     1/1   0/c
11           Evaluate & Select Offers                             45d          4/2/97
12           IDA No Objection to Contract Signing                  10d         9/1/97             9/1   %
13       Conditions of Negotiations                               145d         6/3/96            Condit ns of Negotiations
14           Submit Final TORs, Studies, Training Program         145d         6/3/96 6/3       100/
15           Submit Bidding Documents & Proc. Plans (First 2 Ye   145d         6/3/96 6/3       iOO%
16           Submit Design of Office Complex                      145d        6/3/96 6/3       100/
17           Submit Action Plan to Policy Letter                 145d         6/3/96 6/3    i|O%
18           Recruitment of Ist Round of Key Senior Staff        145d         6/3/96 6/3        100%
19           Submit Operational Manual for CEIF                  145d         6/3/96 6/3       100%
20        Negotiation                                               4d         2/3/97
2/ 0%
Project: Env. ActiO  1 ProjectTask                            Summary                _               Rolled Up Progress
Project: Env. ActrJh I Project                                                                                                                                           u
Institutional Component              Progress                               Rolled Up Task
2/19/97 c:\winproj\sri\env\inst.str.
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone                                                                          0 , 
Page 1



Environmental Action 1 Project
Institutional Strengthening Component
Implementation Schedule
1996      1997   11998             1999  2000     2001     2002       2003      20
ID   Task Name                                               Duration       Start     LELI lE                 [    ]             L       L        I L             L  I
21        Agreements reached at negotiations                        4d         2/3/97       2/3 j 100%
22       Establish a Policy Unit                                    Od        7/31/97
23       Issue updated NEAP                                         Od        9/30/97
0%
24       Study on Staff Incentives                                24w         9/30/97                       0%
25       Studies Action Plans to IDA                                Od        3/31/98
26       Timetable to complete building                             Od         2/3/97             100%
27        NGO Program                                               Od        9/30/97
0%
28       Timetable to Recruit Additional Staff                      Od         2/3/97             100%
29       Arrangements to Manage CEIF                                Od         2/3/97             100%
30       Critieria/procedures for CEIF subprojects                  Od         2/3/97             100%
31       SC and CEIDP to be established                             Od        7/31/97
32       Civil Work (Construction of Office-cum-Laboratory)      960d         3/17/97             _                              _ _
33           Finalize bidding document                              Od        3/17/97
34           Approval by TEC                                        Od         4/7/97
35           Approval by IDA                                       10d        4/21/97        4/2.  0%
36           Approval by CATB                                       Od        4/30/97
37           Invitation to Bid                                     6w         5/15/97         5/15   0%
38           Evaluate Bids                                          Od        6/30/97
39           TEC approval                                           Od         8/7/97
40           IDA approval                                           Od        8/31/97
6_  _   _  _   %
Project: Env. Acti&h 1 Project       Task                                   Summary                 _              Rolled Up Progress
Institutional Component              Progress                               Rolled Up Task                         °                                                       w 
2/19/97 c:\winproj\sri\env\inst.str.
Milestone         *                    Rolled Up Milestone (2
Page 2



Environmental Action 1 Project
Institutional Strengthening Component
Implementation Schedule
1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002      2003     20
ID   Task Name                                              Duration      Start
41           CATB approval                                        Od         9/7/97
42           Award Contract                                       2w         9/8/97
9/8
43           Start Construction                                 720d        2/16/98                2                               0%
2116             _0/%
44       Procurement of Goods (First Two Years)                 181d        4/10/97          _
45           Invitation to Bid                                    6w        4/10/97       4/D:
46           Evaluate Bids                                        Id        5122/97
5/2 
47           Award Contract                                      2w         5/23/97
48           Delivery                                           26w        6/20/97          6i0        0%
49       Conditions of Board presentation                         Od        2/21/97
50           Media Announcements for CEIF                         Od       2/21/97           4  0%
. .%
51           Appointment of committee for CEIF                    Od       2/21/97              0%
52           Mandates of MTEWA's ED and CEA                       Od       2/21/97          *  0%
53           Budget for CEIF                                      Od       2/21/97
54       Board presentation                                       Od       3/25/97              0%
55       Credit Effectiveness (target date)                       Od       6/16/97
56       Project Launch Workshop                                  3d       6/16/97         6A1   0%
57       Project Implementation                                1 800d      6/16/97
58           Institutional/Policy Component                    1800d       6/16/97          .
59               Establish the Steering Committee                 Od       7/31/97
60               Establish Committee on Env. & Dev.               Od       7/15/97           i *  0%
Project: Env. Ac   1 ProjectTask                            Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project: Env. Actidh 1 Project                                                             IV
Institutional Component             Progress                              Rolled Up Task
2/19/97 c:\winproj\sri\env\inst.str.  OM Rl  U
Milestone         *                   Rolled Up Milestone O 3
Page 3



Environmental Action 1 Project
Institutional Strengthening Component
Implementation Schedule
1996  1  1997       1998  1  1999  1 2000  ]  2001          2002  ]2001   20
ID   Task Name                                                Duration      Sta rt     I                                      1   I   ] III III1
61                Establish Policy Unit                             Od        7/15/97                  0%
62                TA for CEA Licence Backlog                      104w        6/16/97          6f1                       0%
63                TA for Contracting Out CEA Activities            20w        6/16/97          6b        0%
64                TA for CEA Environmental Codes of Practice       20w        6/16/97
6/11     0%
65                TA for MTEWA Policy/Planning & NGOs             104w        6/16/97    6M     1        i
s er and 100 Ofcers/Tyiea
66                TA for EIA in Project Approv. Agencies           52w        6/16/97          6M         04                      L       -    --
67                TA to Review CEA Salary Structure and Licens     32w        6/16/97                             eeks7iyarad 10 staryear
68                TA for CEA Human Resource Development            16w        6/16/97          6/1            3 w sTyear and 5 sfafAyear    - -
69                TA to Develop Environmental Standards            36w       10/15/97           . 0Z
0/15    ~ weserfofrst 2  r
70                TA to Develop Env & Management Info Syste        32w       10/15/97             0/15
71                TA for Pollution Control Technology              12w       10/15/97             0/15    0%
72                TA for industrial Inspection Training            12w       10/15/97             0/15    0%
73                TA for CEA Env. Impact Assessment.               12w       10/15/97             0/15 * 0%
74                 A for MTEWA Env. Policy & Program Develop        6w       10/15/97             0/15   0%
75                TA for Preparing Follow-up Environmental Inve    26w        1/17/00                                    1/17       0%
76                NEAP Update Implementation                        Od        9/30/97
77                    Production of Updated NEAP (1999-2002)        Od        9/30/97                    0%
78                Policy Review Activities                        780d        11/3/97           3                                       0%
83                Hiring of Incremental Staff                     904d        7/15/97                                          - 3        0%
84                    MTEWA:Recruit 9 Prof./Tech.                   Od        9/30/97                    0%
Project: Env. Actioti 1 Project      Task                                    Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Institutional Component              Progress                                Rolled Up Task
2/19/97 c:\winproj\sri\env\inst.str.                                                                                                                                       o
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone                                                                               
Page 4



Environmental Action 1 Project
Institutional Strengthening Component
Implementation Schedule
1996     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001     2002      2003     20
ID   Task Name                                             Duration      Start
85                   MTEWA: Recruit 6 Prof./Tech.                Od        1/31/98                      0%
86                   MTEWA: Recruit 2 Prof./Tech.                Od         2/1/99         .                      0%
87                   CEA: Fill Existing Approved Positions       Od        7/15/97                 0%
88                   CEA: Obtain Approval for 48 positions       Od        9/30/97
89  : R t 19 P
89                   CEA: Recruit 19 Prof/Tech.                  Od       12/31/98         .* %.
90                   CEA: Recruit 19 Prof/Tech.                  Od       12/31199         .                               t
91                   CEA: Recruit 10 Prof/Tech.                  Od         1/1/01
92               Procurement of Goods for Years 3 & 4          322d         1/1/98                                 0%
93                   Preparation Bidding Documents              4w          1/1/98               1/1  0%
94                  Invitation to Bid                            1 d      2/26/98                2/26  %
95                   Evaluate Bids                               ld         5/1/98                  5/1 0%
96                   Award Contract                              2w        5/25/98                  5/25
97                   Delivery                                   26w       9/28/98                      9/28      0%
98               Supervision                                  1800d        6/16/97
99                   First In-Depth Review                       3w        9/30/98                     9/30  0%
100                  Second In-Depth Review                      3w        6/30/00                                      6/30  0%
101                  Supervision                              1800d        6/16/97         6k1 .
102              Completion date                                  ld        7/1/02                                                           7/1  0%
103              Closing date                                    3w       12/31/02                                                             12/31  0%
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project: Env. Actici 1 Project
Institutional Component            Progress                              Rolled Up Task r
2/19/97 c:\winproj\sri\env\inst.str.
Milestone                            Rolled Up Milestone                                                                           >
Page 5



Environmental Action 1 Project
Land Management Component
Implementation Schedule
1996                         1997                          1998
ID    Task Name                                     Duration       Start      Q4      Q1     Q2      Q3     Q4    Q1       Q2      Q3     Q4      Q1     Q2      Q3
1    EAIP - LAND COMPONENT                             1896d         213197                                                                    _ _l
2        Start up activities (PPF)                     1896d         2/3/97                                       _-
3            Appoint Provincial Steering Committee        Od        2/25/97
4            Prepare MAL&F/DOA/MTEWA Memo                 1w        2/25/97                                          I
Prepare NRMC/PDA/LUPPD Memo                 1w         2/25197
6             Adap. Res. Program                         lld        2/25/97
7                Prepare Proposals                        1w        2/25/97
Review Proposals                         3d         3/4/97
9                Contracting Procedures for Field Stati   2d        3/10/97
10            Prepare TORs for Studies                     4w        2/25/97
11            Appoint Provincial Implementation Unit       Od         3/3/97
12            Prepare TORs for Consultants                 1w        2/25/97
13            Prepare Guidelines for Nursery Develop.      2w        2/25/97
14            Select watersheds                           39d        2/25/97
Selection of subwatershed (SW)                                                              For entire
115               SlcinfuwtrhdS                           39d        2/25197                                 |prjc       O
_____________                       ~~~~ ~~~~project
16                    Prepare Area Map                     6d        2/25/97                                   area
17                    Marl/List SW                         3d         3/5/97
18                    Discuss/select SW                    2d        3/10/97
19                    Selection of microwatersheds        27d        3/13/97
20                        Prepare soil/water map           3d        3/13/97
Project:Environmebtal Action 1 Proje  Task                                 Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Land Management Component           Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Date: 2/19/97 c:\winproj\sri\env\land.                                                                                                                                       x
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone 0                                                                        w W
Page 1



Environmental Action 1 Project
Land Management Component
Implementation Schedule
1996                         1997                          1998
ID    Task Name                                      Duration      Start       Q4     Q1     Q2      Q3     Q4    Q1    Q2         Q3     Q4    Q1       Q2    Q3
21                        Mark MW                          ld        3/18/97                                         i [  F
For 10M 
22                        Finalize map boundaries          2d        3/19/97
23                        Final selection of MW           20d        3/24197                                           q
24                            Prepare 1/5000 map          10d        3/24/97
25                            Rapid Rural Appraisa/R       3d         4/7/97                                               PetsS
',. Personslday[5]
26                            Discuss final selection      3d        4/11/97
i_   _Pe rsons/day[5]
27                            Finalize map                 2d        4/17/97
28            Negotiations                                 4d         2/3/97                            Mon 2/3/97 *  100%
29            Board Approval                               Od        3/25/97                               Tue 3/25/97 *   Bo; ird Approval
30            Credit Effectiveness (target date)           1 d       6/16/97                                                   I
31            Conditions of Disbursment (target date)      ld        6/16/97                                                     NA
i  _ wNA
32                Submit MAL&F/PDA/MTEWA Memo              Od        6/16/97
33                 Establish Land Sterring Committee       Od        6/16/97
34                Appoint Nat. Res. Specialist/catalyst    Od        6/16/97
35                Prepare/utilize 30-year lease agreem     1d        6/16/97
36            Microcatchment Planning (PPF)              144d         4/11/97
37                Prepare Base Maps                        3d         4/1/97
38                Prepare Land Use Evaluation Map         25d         4/1/97                                                 P    n _y.
i_   Perso nsiday[8]
39                Participatory Planning Training          2d         4/7/97
40                User Groups discussion                   2d        4/10/97
____  erson /day[5]
Project:EnvironmMtal Action 1 Proje  Task                                  Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Land Management Component           Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Date: 2/19/97 c:\winproj\sri\env\land.                                                                                                                                0 -;
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone                                                                        - °t
Page 2



Environmental Action 1 Project
Land Management Component
Implementation Schedule
1996                          1997            |            1998
ID    Task Name                                      Duration      Start      Q4    Q1       Q2      0 3  |4         1     Q       Q3     Q4    Ql    Q2    0 Q3
41                Participatory Mapping/Socioecon.Sur     35d        4/15/97P/155j
42                Computerize/Digitize Data               45d         6/4/97
iaor 500
43                Submit Indicative MC Plan to IDA        15d        9/10/97
~9130197
44                Discuss Indicative MC Plan               6d        10/2/97                                                            jersons/day[5]
45                Finalize MC Plan                         5d       10/13/97
Persons/day[23
46            Project Implementation                    1800d        6/17/97
47            Initiate Training                          208w        6/17/97
48            Start Adaptive Research                    208w        6/17/97
49            Baseline Study                               4w         7/1/97       i 
50            Develop Village Nurseres                  208w          7/1/97                                                       -
51            Prepare MC plans for PY2                   180d        4/23/97
52           Implement MC Plan for PY1                    52w       10/29/97
53            Submit MC plans for PY2 to IDA               ld        4/30/98
54            Implement MC Plan for PY2                   52w        3/25/98
55            First In-depth Review                        3w        9/30/98
56            Second In-Depth Review                       3w        6/30/00
Project:Environm&ital Action 1 Proje  Task                                 Summary         _-               _     Rolled Up Progress
Land Management Component           Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Date: 2/19/97 c:\winproj\sri\env\land.                                                                                                                                 x - 
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone
Page 3



Environmental Action 1 Project
Community Environmental Initiatives Facility
Implementation Schedule
1996            1997            1998             1999            2000            2001             2
ID   Task Name                             Duration      Start      Q1 |Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 0Q2 lQ3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q   Q2 03 Q4 lQ   Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 |Q2
1    Submit CEIF Oper. Manual                   26w         2/7/96                        C t .
_ _            ~~~~~Condition of Negotiation
100%
2    Negotiation                                 4d         2/3/97            b00|
3    Conditions of Board presentation            Od        2/21/97
._________  Conditioh ofBoaid
4        Media Announcements for CEIF            Od        2/21/97                      2/21        Pet
Presentation                    ;
5        Selection of Consultants                Od        2/21/97                     2/21
6        Appointement CEIF Committee             Od        2/21/97                      2/21
7        Budgetary Provision for CEIF            Od        2/21/97                     2/21
8    Board Presentation                          Od        3/25/97                       3/25
9    Credit Effectiveness (target date)          Od        6/16/97                .       6/16
10   Project Launch Workshop                     3d        6/16/97
i%
11   Implementation                            260w        6/16/97          5%
Task                                    Summary                 _Rolled Up Progress
Project: Env. Action 1 ProjecyPrgesRldUpTk
2/19/97 C:\winproj\sri\env\CEIF       Pors                            f      Rle   pTs
Milestone          *Rolled Up Milestone 
Page I



Environmental Action 1 Project
Supervision Plan
96           1997      1      1998      [     1999      |     2000            2001      |     2002
ID   Task Name            Duration     Start      Finish    Q3 Q4 Ql I Q2 I Q3  4Q0 Q Q2 Q3 Q4 Q! Q2 Q3   4 |Ql Q2 Q3  4 IQ    2                   Q4 41  0 Q2 Q3 I Q4 Q
1    Board Presentation         Od     3/25/97     3/25/97              Tue 3/25
2    Credit Effectiveness (t   Od      6/16/97     6/16/97          .   *    qn 116                            _. 
3    Launch Workshop           3d      6/16/97     6/18/97      Mon|6/16  P  .[0.]E.E.E.hS .,.S.,D.S.[0.5],P.S.
4    First Supervision         2w      10/6/97    10/17/97            S.ELS.    0/6
5    Second Supervision        2w      2/23/98      3/6/98        ..S   Mon 2/2
6    First In-Depth Review     3w      9/30/98    10/20/98    S        S PS [0.53,E.E.[0.7],E.I.Sj      0
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.O  ~.S.P..[.5. -                                                 1 7],E.
7    Third Supervision         2w      4/21/99      5/4/99                                   A.S.,E.I.S.  Wed 4/21
8    Second In-Depth Revi      3w      6/30/00     7/20/00                          S.[0.5],E.E.,A.S.,P.S.t0.51,Pr.S.E0.35I,E.l.S.
9    Fourth Supervision        2w      1/19/01      2/1/01                                                                A.S.,E.l.S.
10   Fifth Supervision         2w        8/3/01     8/16/01                                                                        E.I.S.,A.S.  Fri 8/3
11   Sixth Supervision         2w       3/1/01     3/14/01                          _            __                           Thu 3/1 | A.S.[0.5],E.l.S.
_                                                IL~~~~~~~egend                                      g                |__
12   Completion Review         3w    12/31/02       1/20/03                                                                        .   ElS,. , - ____  ______
_____                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.I.S.,A.S.,E.E.,P.S.[0.5],S[0.5]   T
P.S.- Policy Specialist: 5.5 sw
Pr.S.- Procurement Specialist: 1.5 sw
E.E. - Environmental Economist: 9.0 sw
E.I.S. - Environmental/linstitution Specialist: 22.0 sw
.S. - Agricultural Specialist: 21.0 sw
D.S. - Disbursement Specialist: 0.5 sw
S.-Sociologist: 4.5 sw
Total:        64.0 sw
Project: Environmental Action 1 Proje    Task                              Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Supervision Plan                    Progress                               Rolled Up Task
2/19/97 C:\winprojsri\env\EA1 P.sup
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone C                                                                          v' W
Page 1



Annex 5
Page 1 of 8
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION I PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.     Technical Assistance Summary
Objective          Activities        Source and Duration            Output
Foreign        Local
Improve the policy   Assist MTEWA's  24 pm         117.5 pm + 3  Production of the updated
and planning         ED in developing              weeks/year in  NEAP and reports and
capabilities of      environmental                 environnenta  training of 10 MTEWA
MTEWA                policy and                    I policy      policy staff in each of the
programs and                  development  first two years
carrying out                  (University)
annual
performance
evaluations
Develop enforcement   Assist CEA in    12 pm                     Training proposals,
and monitoring       strengthening the                           workshops, and sectoral
capacity within CEA    capacity of project                       guidance manuals aimed at
approving                                   assisting project approving
agencies                                    agencies
Assist CEA in    12 pm                      Production of
expanding and                               environmental code of
enhancing the                               practice for the range of
existing codes of                           industries encountered in
practice                                    Sri Lanka and on-the-job
training
Assist CEA in    12 pm        12 pm         Training in license
overcoming the                              backlog; decreasing time
backlog of license                          to process new licenses,
applications and                            and decreasing no. of
unlicensed                                  applications outstanding
premises
Assist CEA in    5pm          4 pm          Comprehensive suite of
developing                                  ambient quality standards
appropriate                                 for air, water, noise, and
ambient quality                             soil. time frame for the
standards for air,                          phasing-in of such
water, noise, and                           standards
soil



Annex 5
Page 2 of 8
Develop enforcement   Train CEA staff   Three-week course/year in    10 pollution control
and monitoring        in (i) pollution  each discipline (University or  officers trained each year
capacity within CEA    control          technical college)          in pollution control and
technology; (ii)                             industrial inspection; 5
industrial                                    environmental impact
inspection; and                               assessment staff trained
(iii)                                         each year
environmental
impact
assessment
Develop an improved   Assist CEA in     8pm                         Actions plans based on the
incentive for CEA and  carrying out (i) a                           results of the studies
a detailed schedule of  study of existing
fees and charges      incentives and
options for
strengthening
merit-based
incentives and
help design an
improved
incentive system;
and (ii) a study
aimed at
increasing the
role of private
entities in
enforcement
Increase the role of  Assist CEA in     5 pm                        Terms of reference for a
private entities in   determining the                               pilot project to undertake
enforcement          tasks to be                                    under contract licensing
undertaken by                                 and inspection for a
private                                      representative district of
contractors and                               Colombo
advise what
legislative
changes might be
required to
facilitate such
contracting out
Develop an integrated   Assist MTEWA    4 pm           4 pm         Data stored into the
environmental and     in evaluating data                            environmental and
information system for  on the natural,                             management information
Sri Lanka             human and built                              system; on-the-job training
resources of Sri
Lanka for their
suitability for
input to the
environmental
and management
information
system



Annex 5
Page 3 of 8
Help GOSL take       Assist MTEWA        Lumpsum                  Progress reports on a semi-
immediate measures   in appraising and                            annual basis
to reverse the trend of  evaluating
environmental        proposals for the
degradation          Community
Environment
Initiatives Facility
and in monitoring
progress
Assist MAL&F in  I pm           8 pm         10 Microcatchments plans
implementing the                             + on-the-job training
pilot land
management
component with
emphasis on
participatory land
use mapping and
planning and
community group
___________________   formation     _         ===
2.     Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Training
Technical assistance and training will be provided in a number of areas relevant to the operations of both
the Environment Division and the CEA. The following are brief outlines of that assistance.
Licence Backlog
Objective:    To overcome the backlog of license applications and unlicensed premises and provide
on-the-job training for CEA licensing staff.
Personnel:     At least eight-years experience in an environmental protection agency of which at least
three years have been spent in industrial regulation through the enforcement of environmental protection
licenses.
Outline Scope of Work:
* in conjunction with staff of the CEA, locate all those industries in Sri Lanka (excluding the
Northern and Eastern Provinces) that are required to be licensed;
* assess the potential for adverse environmental impact from each industry;
* inspect industries that are assessed as likely to need close control through license measures;
* write appropriate conditions of license for each industry including time-bound compliance
programs for those unlikely to be able to fully comply with standards in the short term;
* the consultant will work from within the CEA offices and in close cooperation with the
licensing staff to provide on-the-job training in licensing and inspection activities;
*  the consultant will be expected to work in close collaboration with the Environmental Codes
of Practice project with which there will be an expected overlap of at least 12 months.
Duration:      One person for 24 continuous months.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 8
Contracting Out
Objective:     To determine the extent to which tasks normally performed by the CEA could be
undertaken by contract.
Personnel:    Appropriately qualified and experienced in environmental impact assessment, industrial
inspection and licensing, industrial site evaluation, environmental sampling and analysis, and
environmental litigation.
Outline Scope of Work:
* examine the tasks carried out by CEA;
* determine the time taken for each or each set of tasks;
* determine the expertise necessary to carry out those tasks;
* provide advice as to the suitability of tasks to be undertaken by private contractors
* provide estimates of the costs of such contracts;
* advise what legislative changes might be necessary to facilitate such contracting out;
- develop detailed terms of reference for a pilot project to undertake licensing and inspection
tasks for a representative district of the greater Colombo area supporting a typical range of
about 50 industrial activities including a mixture of licensed and unlicensed premises;
- the terms of reference will include:
=: inspection of industries (CEA will provide an authorized officer to enable the
consultant to gain entry to premises);
= preparation of a concise report on each industry including appropriate conditions of
license for each industry with time-bound compliance programs for those unlikely
to be able to fully comply with standards in the short term and recommendations for
specific CEA action;
Duration:      5 person months
Environmental Codes of Practice
Objective:     To expand and enhance the existing codes of practice to provide industry with clear
guidance in relation to expected environmental performance, particularly in relation to small- to medium-
sized premises.
Personnel:     At least eight-years experience in an environmental protection agency of which at least
three years have been spent in industrial regulation.
Outline Scope of Work:
* in conjunction with the staff of the CEA and with close interaction with appropriate
government and semi-government agencies and industry representatives, develop a suite of
environmental codes of practice for the range of industries encountered in Sri Lanka with
particular emphasis on the needs of small- to medium-sized premises;
* the consultant will work from within the CEA offices and in close cooperation with the
licensing and EIA staff to provide on-the-job training in industrial assessment and
environmental protection practices;
* the consultant will be expected to work in close collaboration with the Backlog Licensing 1
project with which there will be an expected overlap of at least 12 months.



Annex 5
Page 5 of 8
Duration:      One person for 12 continuous months.
MTEWA Policy Assistance
Objective:    To provide support to the MTEWA in the development, monitoring, and evaluation of
environmental policy and programs. The assistance may be provided as a single package or on the basis
of individual contracts to specialists.
Personnel:     Strong qualifications and experience in policy formulation in disciplines appropriate to
each of the MTEWA's Directorates.
Outline Scope of Work:
* assist each of the Directors of Natural Resources, International Affairs, Industrial Sector,
Built Environment, Legal, and Monitoring & Evaluation to undertake their tasks;
provide guidance and assistance in the development of environmental policy;
* provide guidance and assistance in the development of environmental programs.
Duration:      24 continuous months for each of six positions.
EIA in Project Approving Agencies
Objective:     To assist the CEA in strengthening the capacity of project approving agencies in
environmental assessment of proposals.
Personnel:     At least eight-years experience in a government agency involved in environmental
impact assessment.
Outline Scope of Work:
* assist the Director and staff of the EIA directorate to develop training proposals for staff in
project-approving agencies;
* coordinate and, where appropriate, conduct workshops and training sessions for staff of
project-approving agencies involved in environmental assessment;
* assist in the preparation of sectorial guidance manuals aimed at assisting project-approving
agencies in undertaking thorough and consistent environmental analysis.
Duration:      One person for 12 continuous months
Salary Structure and Licence Fees
Objective:     To develop an enhanced salary structure for CEA professional and technical staff and a
scheme of licensing fees to offset the cost of the CEA's pollution control function.
Personnel:     Appropriately qualified and experienced in accountancy, human resource management,
and environmental regulation.
Outline Scope of Work:
* review previous studies carried out in relation to the salary and allowance structure of the
CEA;



Annex 5
Page 6 of 8
* develop a scheme of salary and allowances that will enhance the CEA's ability to recruit and
retain high quality professional and technical staff;
* review previous studies carried out in relation to fees and charges levied by the CEA;
* examine the potential for introducing or modifying fees for environmental impact
assessment, industrial site approval, and "fast track" licensing;
* develop a detailed schedule of fees and charges, together with a phasing-in procedure that
will raise suflicient revenue to offset the costs incurred by the CEA in carrying out its
pollution control function by January 2000;
* assess the likely economic impact on the private sector of the introduction of the
recommended fee structure.
Duration:      8 person months.
Human Resource Development
Objective:    To recommend ways of improving the effectiveness of the professional and technical
human resources of the CEA.
Personnel:     Appropriately qualified and experienced in human resource development.
Outline Scope of Work:
* examine the management systems and work practices used in carrying out the EIA and
pollution control functions of the CEA;
- identify areas where work output might be improved in terms of both quality and quantity;
* develop detailed proposals for improvement of work output through such means as improved
supervisory practices, collective incentives, and competition between task teams.
Duration:     4 person months
Environmental Standards
Objective:    To develop appropriate ambient quality standards for air, water, noise, and soil.
Personnel:    At least eight-years experience in a agency responsible for the establishment and
enforcement of environmental standards.
Outline Scope of Work:  In close collaboration with staff of the CEA,
* review ambient standards applied elsewhere or recommended by authorities such as the
World Health Organisation with particular reference to those adopted in the Region;
*  assess the appropriateness of various standards to the Sri Lankan environment and
socioeconomic structure;
* recommend a comprehensive suite of ambient quality standards for air, water, noise, and
soil;
* where appropriate, recommend time frames for the phasing-in of such standards.
Duration:      9 person months



Annex 5
Page 7 of 8
Environmental and Management Information System
Objective:     To develop and maintain an integrated environmental and management information
system.
Initial terms of reference have been developed and a proposal for establishment of the system has been
submitted. The proposal includes staff training and ongoing maintenance of the system.
Environmental Information Gathering
Objective:     To gather available environmental information and input it to the information system.
Personnel:     Experience in data gathering, formatting, and inputting to computerized data bases.
Outline Scope of Work:
* by bibliographic search and visits and interviews with government, semi-government, local
government agencies, and NGOs, locate data on the natural, human, and built resources of
Sri Lanka;
- evaluate data for its suitability for input to the Environmental and Management Information
System;
- verify, reformat, and edit data where appropriate;
- input data to the system providing appropriate indexes and guidance instructions to facilitate
retrieval.
Duration:      8 person months.
Pollution Control Technology Training
Objective:     To provide pollution control staff with an understanding industrial pollution control
systems.
Institution:   University or technical college, preferably in association with a pollution control agency.
Outline Scope of Course: Theoretical discussion and practical demonstration of a range of processes for
the treatment and safe disposal of wastewater, waste gases, and solid wastes and for the attenuation of
noise from industrial processes.
Duration:      Three weeks.
Attendance:    10 pollution control officers in each year of the project.
Industrial Inspection Training
Objective:     To train pollution control staff in the inspection of industrial premises.
Institution:   University of technical college in collaboration with a pollution control agency.
Outline Scope of Course: Discussion of the principles of, and participation in the inspection of a range of
industrial premises; training and practice in inspection report writing; training and practice in the
principles of evidence gathering.



Annex 5
Page 8 of 8
Duration:     3 weeks
Attendance:    10 pollution control staff in each year of the project.
Environmental Impact Assessment Training
Objective:    To provide training in EIA staff of the CEA involved in EIA and to expose them to
current trends.
Institution:  University, preferably in association with a government agency undertaking EIA.
Outline Scope of Course: Training in the principles of project-oriented and strategic EIA from the
initiation of proposals, through scoping, document preparation, public involvement, evaluation, and
condition setting.
Duration:     3 weeks
Attendance:    5 EIA staff in each year of the project.
Environmental Policy and Program Development Training
Objective:    To provide training to policy development staff of the Environment Division of
MTEWA.
Institution:  University, preferably in conjunction with a government agency involved in
environmental policy development.
Outline Scope of Course: The place of policy in government administration; the various levels of policy;
processes of policy development; obtaining "ownership" and consensus; monitoring policy effectiveness.
Duration:     3 weeks
Attendance:    10 MTEWA policy staff in each of the first two years of the project.
Environmental Agency Twinning
Objective:    To provide CEA and MTEWA staff with an opportunity to work in an overseas
environmental agency and to bring overseas expertise into CEA and MTEWA.
Institution:  An overseas government agency involved in one or all of environmental policy
development, environmental impact assessment, and pollution control.
Proposal:     Arrange with an overseas agency, preferably in the Region, to swap two staff with two
equivalently placed staff in the CEA or the MTEWA for a period of three months. The project will cover
the cost of transport, accommodation, and a modest per diem.
Preceding Action:     A team consisting of one officer from MTEWA and one officer from CEA to
visit environmental agencies in Malaysia, India, the Philippines, and Australia to assess the potential for
twinning arrangements.
Attendance:    Two MTEWA staff and four CEA staff in each year of the project.



SRI LANKA
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICA TORS
1.     INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Formulation of Environmental Obiectives
INPUT AND PROCESS                OUTPUT AND IMPACT INDICATORS                     SUPERVISION AND MONITORING
INDICATORS
Existence of working groups on   Production of a regularly updated NEAP that reflects   *  NEAP issued by September 1997.
update of the NEAP under         sector/regional/and popular views through specific  *  Evaluation of NEAP implementation by March
MTEWA coordination with broad    policy or investment recommendations.              2001.
participation of line
ministries/PAAs, regional entities,
NGOs, and the private sector.
Improving the environmental legal   Approval of updated Environmental Act.      Updated Environmental Act approved by December 31,
framework.                                                                      1999.
Integration of Environmental Objectives in Overall and Sector Development
Existence of an Environment Group  NEAP recommendations (policy and investments)  Annual Review of PIP including inter alia
(EG) in the National Planning   reflected in sectoral strategies and the public  incorporation of NEAP concerns into PIP.
Department (NPD) to integrate   investment program (PIP). Yearly review of the PIP
NEAP recommendations in public   and the institutional arrangements. Overall cost-
investment planning.            effective improvement in environmental conditions.
Strengthening of Project Approving  Placing of 12 number of post graduate environmental  12 post graduate environmental inters posted in PAAs
Agencies (PAAs) to integrate    interns in PAAs.                               by July 31, 1997.
NEAP recommendations in sector
strategies and proposed
investments.
OrQ
°q1



INPUT AND PROCESS                             OUTPUT AND IMPACT INDICATORS                                  SUPERVISION AND
INDICATORS                                                                                                MONITORING
Studies leading to the           Studies Proposed                                                          Ten studies completed by the end
clarification/integration of     1. Provide detailed, historical analysis of economic and regulatory factors affecting    of the Project with a minimum of
economic-environmental linkages   incentives for resource use. These factors should include direct sectoral policies or  2 per year.
in government policies.            regulations, as well as possible indirect determinants of sectoral incentives. This
should augment the existing work based on the Action Impact Matrix used for
project formulation.
2. Undertake empirical, quantitative assessment of incentives distortions.
3. Analyze potential contribution and costs of alternatives policy reform measures.
4. Continue implementation of the Decision Support System pollution model for
specific industries and for key pollution 'hot spots"
5. Joint MTEWA/NPD studies on environmental issues associated with
development strategies on growth patters anticipated by forward looking
strategies such as "Sri Lanka 2000"
6. Study to identify policy and technical options to conserve groundwater.
7. Study to assess environmental effects of agricultural pricing policy.
8. Study to recommend ways to focus public sector resources for biodiversity
protection by encouraging private sector provision of services in protected areas.
9. Study to recommend policy options to control plastic waste.
10. Study to recommend policies to promote markets for waste recycling.
11. Study to recommend incentives for non-coral based lime.
12. Recommendations of fiscal incentives to promote renewable energy.
13. Policy options for introducing unleaded petrol and low sulfur diesel.
14. Study to recommend more effective performance bonds for the mining industry.
15.Review of ways to target the fertilizer subsidy to small farmers and reduce its
environmental consequences.
owP



Implementation and Regulation of Environmental Priorities
INPUT AND PROCESS                 OUTPUT AND IMPACT INDICATORS                         SUPERVISION AND MONITORING
INDICATORS
Adoption of a program for the       Completion of the restructuring of ED and      * Recruit 9 professional/technical staff by September 30,
restructuring of MTEWA -           production of outputs (NEAP, State of the           1997
Environment Division (ED).         Environment report, etc.) that reflect participation  * Recruit 6 professional/technical staff by January 31, 1998.
and ownership by public and private sector     * Recruit 2 professional/technical staff by January 31, 1999.
institutions.
Adoption of a program for the      Completion of restructuring and phased recruitment  * Fill existing approved positions (24 positions) by July 31,
restructuring of CEA.              of staff into already-approved as well as new      1997
positions.                                     * Obtain approval for additional 48 positions by September
30, 1998.
* Recruit 19 professional/technical staff by December 31,
1998.
* Recruit 19 professional/technical staff by December 31,
1999.
*  Recruit 10 professional/technical staff bu December 31,
2000.
Adoption of incentives (mainly     Implementation of the recommendations of the    *  Action plans proposed by March 31, 1988
through HRD) for ED and CEA staff   study.                                         *  Implementation of action plans by March 31, 1999.
to reduce staff turnover.
Develop HRD program for CEA staff   Staff trained to clear backlog program;        *  47 staff trained
and enroll the required number of  Time to process new licenses;                   *  30 % reduction
trainees in LICENSE                No. of applications outstanding;                *  30% reduction
MANAGEMENT COMPETENCE              Licensed premises visited each month;           *  10 % increase
Licensed premises complained against           * 50 % decrease
Develop HRD program for CEA staff   Staff trained in codes of practice program;    * 47 staff trained
and enroll the required number of  Codes of practice published.                    * Codes of Practice published by December 31, 1998
trainees in SMALL INDUSTRY
REGULATION COMPETENCE.
Upgrade EAI training program        Specialized training in scoping training; TORs  *  inclusion of these aspects of training courses in
preparation and evaluation                        CEAIPERADENYA University training programs.
Review processes of LICENSE AND    Decline in local complaints to CEA              *  50 % decline
EIA enforcement and monitoring
C D
ox
. ON



2.     IMPROVED LAND MANAGEMENT
INPUT AND PROCESS                OUTPUT AND IMPACT INDICATORS                           SUPERVISION AND MONITORING
INDICATORS
Test and develop on a watershed    Increase in the number and coverage of erosion  10 watersheds over the project period with a minimum of 1000
basis suitable technologies for  control and rehabilitation works; demonstrable  to 1500 ha./year.
minimizing land degradation.    impact on erosion reduction/increase in land and
water conservation; increase in land productivity.
MTEWA/MALF coordination          Land steering committee established.            Conditions of Disbursement.
mechanisms in place.
Participatory micro-planning    Active community organizations involved in the   Annual survey
process in place                component.
Watershed management clarified    Detailed arrangements for implementation of the  Regular review of implementation by land and provincial
and endorsed by all implementing   practices.                                    steering committee.
agencies and MTEWA.
3.     COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES FACILITY INDICATORS
INPUT AND PROCESS                OUTPUT AND IMPACT INDICATORS                           SUPERVISION AND MONITORING
INDICATORS
Dissemination of proposal and   Applications submitted to CEIF                   Number of applications approved for each NEAP category
application forms and publicity of
CEIF
Grants disbursed by CEIF        Subprojects implemented.                         Number of subprojects implemented in each NEAP category.
CEIF subprojects completed and  Subprojects still functioning one year after     Number of subprojects still functioning in each NEAP category
maintenance plans submitted (with  completion.                                   one year after completion.
funding arrangements) to CEIF.
006



Annex 7
Page 1 of 7
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.     This annex presents the details of the rationale used in: (i) the economic and the fiscal analysis of
the institutional strengthening and the Community Environmental Initiatives Facility (CEIF) components;
and (ii) the cost-benefit analysis of the pilot land management component. The analysis is mainly
qualitative as it is not possible to conduct a comprehensive benefit-cost analysis for an environmental
project with institutional development as its main component. Additionally, most of the benefits are in
the form of improved health and personal well-being and cannot be quantified precisely. The project
through strengthening the institutions and improving the policy framework would enable better policy
formulation and decision making on resource management issues. Through the CEIF, the project would
provide for several conservation and environment projects at the local level that should assist in
minimizing environmental degradation. Through measures for land management, on-farm agricultural
productivity and incomes would increase, and outside the farm areas in the microwatersheds, the activities
would reduce soil erosion and downstream sedimentation of reservoirs. It is also clear that without the
project deterioration of the resource base would continue with adverse effects on overall productivity.
2.     Institutional and Policy Component. The institutional and policy component does not lend itself
to a quantifiable analysis in terms of applying conventional economic and financial rates of returns
analysis. However, a brief qualitative description of the rationale for government involvement and
expected economic costs and benefits is described below.
The role of the 2overnment
3.     The rationale for the project is the prevalence of externalities and associated institutional and
market failures. Over the past decades, there has been a greater reliance on markets and less on the
government intervention to promote economic development. However, environment is one area in which
government should maintain a central role. At present, markets do not always accurately reflect the social
value of the environment. First, markets are not working properly because it is difficult to enforce the
rights to own or use 'public goods" in the environment. Second, open access to resources, such as water
bodies, allows them to be exploited, and environmental effects are not recognized by the users. Third, the
economy lacks information about environmental impacts with private firms having little incentive to
provide accurate information regarding environmental externalities.
4.     The role of the government is therefore, inter alia, to formulate environmental policy, increase
awareness, enforce regulations, and design instruments to capture the environmental externalities. In the
case of CEA's responsibilities there is, however, scope of contracting out some of its present
responsibilities, such as the industry licensing and inspection functions. A study and a pilot program
would be undertaken during the implementation period to analyze the scope for private sector
participation. The project would also assist in the development of an NGO outreach program.
5.     The proposed project would help Sri Lanka to meet its environmental challenges through
important strengthening of the policy formulation process and institutional operational and regulatory
changes. Environmental degradation is an emerging problem in Sri Lanka where more than 30% of yearly
GDP is dependent on the country's natural resources, and as rapid industrialization, tourism and
deforestation take their toll. Integration of environmental objectives would broaden development goals
leading to a more sustainable development. The policy subcomponent would assist the government to
review macro- and sector-wide policies with impacts on the environment. It would generally promote the



Annex 7
Page 2 of 7
adoption of policies that enhance both economic efficiency and sound environmental management (e.g.,
effluent charges and pollution taxes). The institutional component would strengthen the focal entity for
environmental policy, planning and coordination (MTEWA), and the institution responsible for regulatory
and enforcement activities (CEA). As noted above, the public institutions will only be strengthened in
those areas that cannot be performed by the private sector.
Impact on recurrent cost.
6.      Some expenditures introduced by the proposed project will become part of the government's
ongoing recurrent cost after project completion. Such recurrent expenditures are: (i) salaries for staff who
will be hired to perform new task or to reinforce already existing teams: and (ii) operating tasks associated
with these programs. To assess the sustainability of the proposed project, the project's recurrent cost
implications for both the Environment Division of the MTEWA and the CEA is estimated below.
7.     In 1995, the Environment Division and CEA's total expenditures are estimated to be 0.01% and
0.02%, respectively, of total government expenditures.  While these expenditures are insignificant
compared with the overall budgetary expenditures, the budgetary impact on the institutions is large.
Current expenditures are projected to rise by 39% and 33% from 1996 to the end of the four-year project
implementation period in the Environment Division and the CEA, respectively, in constant 1995 prices
(see Attachment 1). The rise in recurrent costs is driven by the expansion in staff. Not only would staff
costs increase by some 37% and 38% for the ED and CEA, respectively, but many other costs would also
increase as the additional staff undertake more activities.' However, this incremental recurrent of Rs. 18
million, in constant 1995 prices, by the end of the project implementation period is equivalent to only
0.2% of MTEWA's budgeted expenditures in 1995 (of Rs.7,157 million).
8.      The project would finance 90% of incremental recurrent cost, except incremental salaries which
would be funded according to a declining basis starting at 90% in the first year of the project, 70% in the
second year and 50% until the end of the project period. The figures below show the total incremental
recurrent cost and the share financed by IDA, respectively. Overall, the fiscal responsibility lies with the
government, and in cases where the government does not recoup all project costs, these unrecouped
investments should be viewed as benefits to society as a whole arising from externality gains.
Measures to Improve Fiscal Sustainability
9.     In principle, the government has agreed to finance an increasing share of the additional recurrent
cost associated with the project during the project implementation period. This commitment ensures the
willingness and capacity of the government to sustain CEA and the ED's expenditures and activities in
future years, once the project is completed. However, the stringent budgetary conditions suggest that
additional measures should be taken to ensure fiscal sustainability. Furthermore, while the expenditure
increase is not large in absolute terms, representatives from the Ministry of Finance may be concerned
that other public institutions could demand similar budget expansions.
In this context, it should be noted that the recurrent cost implications of other development projects implemented by the Ministry and
CEA has not been estimated in detail but appear to be small.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 7
Figure 1
Incremental wage cost
(lb rnsfljon. cowjns i995 ,qr4e;
6i                                                                 .           I
C w1ur
_-                                                i       1           .
Z~~~ *                                       |                                ; j      A:  iin -
[/ ~~*                   .I                           .           -       -   _ -__....__.._......._ 
_.   _ .. ........... . .............._  ......      . ..  . .......
YI-3r¶             YVear                 Year 3               Year 4
Figure 2
lncreJnlentalt non-wage con
14 -
12
TO;,rgi,.f,J&, .-;itrXml Si..P....2l
7C -          -                        \1 
EK..L1 .i                                                                      IDA
F~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. .....
|Year '                Yea.: 2           Y ea -3           Year 4
10.     Options for the enhancement of the fiscal sustainability of the project include the following
measures. First, overall fiscal adjustment would facilitate for the government to engage in high priority
areas, such as the environment, where it has its comparative advantage. Second, a freeze on new hiring in
the non-staff grades including positions currently unfilled would improve sustainability. An expansion in
the numbers of support staff does not seem required because current ratios of support to higher level staff
are high, especially in the ED (ratio of 4.5) but also in the CEA (ratio of 1.6), and the availability of office
equipment would be enhanced as a result of the proposed project. Finally, fiscal sustainability would be
enhanced by an increase in fees with the objective of financing (at least partially) CEA's incremental cost
of the project.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 7
Promosed Cost-recovery Mechanism.
11.    In 1994, CEA's revenues from fees amounted to about Rs 3.6 million in 1995 constant prices,
compared to an average of recurrent incremental costs of Rs 17.4 million per year during the project
implementation period. The proposed project is expected to contribute to a higher stream of revenues.
First, without the strengthening of the CEA, the current backlog of license application would continue to
rapidly increase. The proposed new structure of the CEA (including additional resources and training of
the current staff in licensing procedures) is designed to keep up with the expected number of license
applications, while clearing the current backlog. Second, there is scope for increasing the fees. Finally,
in the medium to longer term, the work undertaken in the context of the policy subcomponent may
enhance revenues as a result of introduction of environmental-related taxes and charges.
12.    Preliminary calculations show that with only a moderate increase in the fee structure, the
revenues attributed to the fees would more than offset CEA's increased current cost attributed to the
project. Two scenarios have been constructed, both assuming modest increases in CEA's staff. In a low-
case scenario, assuming a somewhat higher fee structure than the present one, revenues attributed to fees
could increase from Rs 3.6 million in 1994, to Rs 18 million by the end of the project period, both in 1995
constant prices. In a high-case scenario, with average license fee for large industrial premises of
approximately Rs. 100,000 per year (compared with Rs.500,000 to Rs. 10,000,000 per year in developed
countries), CEA's revenues from fees could increase to about Rs 58 million by the end of the project
period, in constant 1995 prices (see Table A7,1 and Attachment 1). Detailed analyses on the scope of
increased fees will be undertaken in the context of the proposed fee license study (para.5.8).
Table A7.1
Projected Cash Flow of CEA
(constant 1995 prices, million Rs).
Budget      Low-Case Scenario  High-Case Scenario
1995        Final project year    Final project year
Total revenue /a                 26.0              40.4                80.4
of which fees                    3.6              18.0                58.0
Total recurrent cost             29.0              42.5                42.5
of which project /b             0.0               10.5                10.5
Net                              -3.0              -2.1                37.9
Memo: a/ Assuming the same level of revenues as in 1994 for non-fee revenues. b/ CEA 's
incremental recurrent cost attributed to the project.
Economic Analysis of the Pilot Land Manazement ComPonent
13.    Pilot Land Management Component.  Cost-benefit analysis was carried out only for the land
management component. The purpose of the land management component is to: (i) test and develop, on a
watershed basis, suitable technologies for minimizing the extent of land degradation, thereby increasing
agricultural productivity and reducing associated on-farm and off-farm impacts; (ii) examine the
feasibility of participatory management of the microwatersheds by the beneficiaries; and (iii) define
technical criteria for replicating watershed development activities in the hilly areas. The primary benefits
of the land management component include improved productivity and income through overall
improvement of soil. Land management activities carried out on ten selected microwatersheds consists of
on-farm and off-farm activities, and accounts for only 15% of total project costs. This analysis applies
only to the on-farm activities, which is about 10% of the total project costs, and directly estimates on-farm
benefits through increased productivity. The project benefits accruing to approximately 12,500 farm
families and covering about one half of the total pilot area which is about 10,000 ha are expected to be
significant. Most project benefits would emanate from the introduction of low-cost land management



Annex 7
Page 5 of 7
practices such as vegetative contour barriers, stone terraces and other soil stabilization, and moisture
retention practices. The most direct beneficiaries would be the rural poor, marginal, and small farmers.
They would benefit from the additional output generated by the project at the farm level. Improved
management of watersheds is, moreover, expected to have important off-farm benefits in the form of
decreased sedimentation as well as a decrease in the risks associated with flooding and land slides. For
example, the physical soil loss of the Upper Mahaweli catchment is estimated at 132,000 tons/year and the
siltation level of the Polgolla reservoir in 1994 (only 14 years after commissioning) was estimated at 44%
of capacity.2 The analysis does not include externality benefits of on-farm activities nor the benefits and
costs of off-farm activities within the microwatershed, and to that extent the analysis is an
underestimation of rate of return.
14.    Assumptions. The underlying assumptions were employed in the analysis: (i) Prices. All values
have been expressed in constant 1995 prices. All traded commodities were valued at import parity prices
and all non-traded goods are based on domestic financial prices. Appropriate adjustments were made for
margins, freight, handling, processing, and quality differentials. Non-traded outputs and inputs were
expressed in border rupees through application of standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9. The wage rate
for unskilled labor was assumed to be equal to the financial wage rate; (ii) Yields. Due to soil depletion,
it is assumed that yields would decline by 1% per annum3 in the 'without" project case. Yields are
assumed to decline by 10% in the year that the treatments are undertaken but are assumed to increase by
2% per annum thereafter; (iii) Project Life. A project life of twenty years was assumed for the analysis;
and (iv) Investment Costs. After removing price contingencies, taxes, and duties, all investment costs
have been included in the analysis.
15.    Benefits to Farmers. A detailed analysis of farm benefits was carried out for the pilot area.
Benefits to farmers are expected to accrue as a result of increase in yields of existing crops due to
improved land management practices that result in improved retention of soil nutrients. To assess the
component's on-farm benefits, two representative farm models were developed taking into account the
major agroecological zones and cropping pattern. Both models use survey data to derive current farming
practices, costs, and revenue. The 'With" project case includes land treatments such as vegetative contour
hedges, lock and spill dams and stone terraces, and related costs and benefits that are compared with the
'Without" project situation. These treatments are currently being evaluated on an individual treatment
basis by other donor-assisted projects, and the benefits are based on preliminary results. As the average
farm size in the project area is less than one acre, these farm models are based on 1.0 acre mixed farm.
Existing farming practices, crop mix, costs, and returns were based on survey information provided by
MAL&F and confirmed by field observations and consultations with farmers.
16.    The analysis of farm returns shows  a substantial increase in income as a result of new
technologies. By year 5, the incremental farm income for both farm models would increase on average by
about Rs.5,548 (which is about 12% more than the 'Without" project case), and in year 10, the
incremental income would be Rs.24,672 (which is about 63% more than the 'Without" project case). The
average incomes of farmers adopting Model 1 would increase by 53% and double (104%) in farm Model
2. The increase in farm incomes reflects the high potential productivity of the proposed land management
practices. The results of farm budget analysis (aggregate benefits over a period of 20 years) are given in
Tables A7.3 -A7.5.
17.    Economic Rate of Return. The financial costs and benefits and the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) are estimated using farm survey data. The net benefits are the overall increase in output as a result
of the land management practices introduced that result in improved soil fertility. This is compared with
the 'Without" project case of a decline in yields of 1% per year. Based on the farm income analysis,
2   Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka, HA&OM Division. Also quoted in EAI P Preparation Report, June 1994.
3   Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka, Environment and Forest Conservation Division, Forest/Land Use Mappinp Project: Technical
Report No 20 1994.



Annex 7
Page 6 of 7
farmers would find a quick yielding return on the investments. Based on the assumptions, the overall
economic rate of return of the proposed interventions to farmers in the pilot micro-watersheds is 16% in
Model 1 and 28% in Model 2. The average weighted rate of return is 24%.
18.    Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analysis shows that the ERRs are robust and not sensitive to
delays in project benefits or increases in project costs. Even a 30% increase in costs would result in a
decline in the ERR's to 13% and 25% in Models 1 and 2, respectively. A lag in benefits by three years
combined with a 20% increase in costs would reduce the ERRs to 10% and 19%, respectively. Tables
A7.3 and A7.4 show a range of cost increase and lags in benefits and its effect on the ERRs.  The
sensitivity analysis also shows that it is not sensitive to shortfalls in projected yields, hence decline in
projected benefits. A decline in benefits by 40% would reduce the ERRs to 11% for Model 1 and 22% for
Model 2. To test the sensitivity of the component's ERRs to possible adverse outcomes, an analysis of
switching values of costs and benefits was carried out. The results indicate that if benefits decline by 30%
and 75% for Models 1 and 2, respectively, the ERR declines to 12% which is the opportunity cost of
capital. Costs would have to increase by 50% and 290% for Models 1 and 2, respectively for the ERR to
decline to 12%.
Table A7.2
Economic Rates of Return (%)
Economic
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___Rate  of Return
Farm Model 1                               16%
Farm Model 2                               28%
Average (weighted)                         24%
Table A7.3
Sensitivity Analysis: Model 1
(IRR for Base Case is 16%)
Increase of Costs
Lag in Net Benefits        0%                 10%              20%            30%
0 year              16%                 15               14             13
1 year              14%                13                12             12
2 year              13%                12                11             10
3 year              11%                10                9              8
Table A7.4
Sensitivity Analysis: Model 2
(IRR for Base Case is 28%)
Increase of Costs
Lag in Net Benefits         0%              10%             20%              30%
0 year               28%              27               26              25
1 year               25%              24              23               22
2 year               23%              22               21              20
3 year               20%              19               18              18



Annex 7
Page 7 of 7
Table A7.5
Model 1: Farm Income Analysis
Per Acre Mixed Farm
(Potatoes, Beans, and Chilies)
(SL Rupees)
Potato           Beans            Chilies             Total
without  with    without   with   without   with    without   with
Total Cost of
Production             37,904  38,947    4,290   5,333    4,005    5,049   46,199   49,329
Gross Value of
Production             64,134  82,134    6,112   7,774   14,604   16, 905   84,850  106,813
Total Net Income       26,231  43,134    1,823   2,441   10,599   13,551   38,653   59,126
Average Annual
Incremental Income             16,903              618               2,952            20,473
Table A7.6
Model 2: Farm Income Analysis*
Per Acre Mixed Farm
(Cabbage, Onions, and Seed Potatoes)
(SL Rupees)
Seed
Cabbage             Onion              Potato              Total
without    with   without      with   without    with    without      with
Total Cost of         10,657    11,701    9,812   10,855   84,854    85,897   105,323   108,453
Production
Gross value of       26,389    30,546   21,602   28,164   95,599   124,638   143,590   183,348
Production                            I                            I                             I
Total Net Income      15,732    18,846   11,790   17,309   10,745    38,741    38,267    74,896
AverageAnnual                    3,114              5,519            27,996               36,629
Incremental Income
Table A7.7
Project Impact on Farm Net Income*
Without       With       Incremental         %
Model 1               38,652        59,182         20,530          53
Model 2               38,267        78,145         39,878         104
Average Annual        38,460        68,664         30,204          79
19.    Increased agricultural activities would also lead to additional on-farm employment. In addition,
land management practices on communal and state lands, mainly reforestation and civil works, would
also lead to creation of temporary employment during the project period.
Aggregated Over a period of 20 years.






Annex 7
Attachment 1
Page 1 of2
Current Expenditures
Central Environmental Authority
(in constant 1995 prices, thousand Rs.)
Growth Rate
Projected                  (O/)
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    Year    Year    Year    Year   1991   1996/
1       2       3        4      /95     Y4
CurrentExpenditures Total (a)   19496   21647   24436   22813   29003   31969   37401   42773   41061   42475       49      33
Wage & Allowances             7785    8174    9276    9952   10495   13462   15548   17495   18482   18482          35      37
Other Benefits                 245       56     258     921    1250    1250    1555    1749    1848    1848    411          48
Total Personnel               8029    8230    9533   10873   11745   14712   17102   19244   20330   20330          46      38
Training(b)                      0        0      95      75      150      150     150     262      462     924      na     516
Maintenance                   2634    3080    3622    2995    3650    3650    3831    4214    4985    5145          39      41
Buildings                    866     936     842      346     600      600     888    1044    1300    1300    -31        117
Vehicles                    1377    1649    2034    1893    1950    1350    2077    2235    2682    2787         42       43
Other                        391     495     746      756    1100    1100       866     935    1003    1058    181        -4
General Operations            5823    6527    8123    8361   11403   11403   14262   16998   13229   14021          96      23
Fuel                        1151    1484    1618    1272    1900    1900    2261    3109    3391    3674         65       93
OtherExp. for Vehicles       179     160     236      565     290      290      512     703     766      830     62      186
Transportation/Trips         820    1105      127    1770    1000    1000    1500    1760    2100    2280        22      128
Rent                         676     555     497      509    2700    2700    3947    4926          0       0    299      100
Utilities                    507     442     718    1015       800     800     993    1033    1073    1053       58       32
Commnunications              489     615     696      546     620      620     776      944    1119    1231      27       99
Dissemination                235     155     200      167      550     550     605      666     732      805    134       46
Stores&Periodicals           936    1091    1900    2058    1192    1192    1317    1507    1697    1797         27       51
Other                        831     919    2131      459    2351    2351    2351    2351'  23531    2351    183           0
Operations Promotion          2607    2489    1796      391      550      550     550     550      550     550    -79        0
OperationsNatural Resources    189     211      651       46     205     205      205     205      205     205       8       0
Operations Env. protection     214    1111      611       72    1075    1075    1075    1075    1075    1075    402          0
Operations Legal                 0        0       5        0     225     225      225     225      225     225      na       0
Note:    (a) Excluding depreciation, and recurrent expenditures that may result from other development projects.
(b) Over and above training financed by proposed project.
Environment Division
Current Expenditures
(thousand Rs., constant 1995 prices)
Budget projected                                         Growth
Proected     ___ Rate %
1994     1995      1996     Year    Year    Year    Year    1996/
1       2       3        4       Y4
CurrentExpenditures Total (a)    23638    19554    19538   27724   30391   26695   27181        39
Personnel Costs                6703      6215     6199    7541    8274    8274    8518          37
Training(b)                       0         0         0       0      124     248      426       na
Maintenance (c)                3108      1475      1475    3333    3333    3498    3498        137
General Operations            13917    11864    11864   16850   18659   14675   14739           24
Fuel                         2158     1200      1200    2321    2321    2321    2321          93
OtherExp. for Vehicles        565         0        0      512     703      766     830        na
Transportation/Trips         1012       850      850    1635    2061    2061    2061         143
Rent                         3117     3277      3277    3615    4047         0       0      -100
Utilities                     490       650      650      547     597      597     597        -8
Communications               1283       800      800    2268    2612    2612    2612         227
Stores & Periodicals          792       550      550    1402    1768    1768    1768         221
Other                        4500     4537      4537    4550    4550    4550    4550           0
Note:    (a) Excluding recurrent expenditures that may be generated by other development projects.
(b) Over and above training financed by the proposed project.
(c) For simplicity, assumes CEA covers maintenance of new building



Annex 7
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
Preliminary revenue scenarios.
Below are two revenue scenarios presented. Both scenarios assumes a modest increase in CEA's staffing
(in line with the proposed set-up for the first year of project implementation). In the low revenue scenario
the fees are increased only somewhat. In the high revenue scenario the average license fee for large
industrial premises in Sri Lanka is assumed to be raised to approximately US$ 2,000 per year, which is to
compare with license fees for large industries in developed countries between US$ 10,000 and over US$
200,000 per year.
Low revenue case
(Rs million, 1995 prices)
Present  Proposed    Year 1    Year 2       Year 3      Year 4
Fee      Fee
License applications         750      2,000    772,000     810,000     851,000     893,000
Site clearance                 a/    3,000   1,535,000   1,611,000    1,692,000   1,777,000
Work orders                    --      500      50,000     60,000       70,000     100,000
Work order inspections         --    1,000    100,000      120,000      140,000    200,000
License fees - large industry   5,000 'a   20,000  4,000,000   6,000,000    8,000,000  10,000,000
License fees - small industry    250 /a    1,000  2,000,000   3,000,000    4,000,000   5,000,000
Total                              8,457,000  11,601,000   14,753,000  17,970,000
a/ The fee, which is a single combinedfor license and site clearance, varies between Rs 5, 000 and 250
depending on the size of the investment.
High revenue case
(Rs million, 1995 prices)
Proposed Fee     Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4
License applications           2,000         772,000     810,000        851,000    893,000
Site clearance                 3,000       1,535,000    1,611,000     1,692,000   1,777,000
Work orders                      500          50,000      60,000        70,000     100,000
Work order inspections         1,000         100,000     120,000        140,000    200,000
License fees - large industry  100,000    20,000,000  30,000,000     40,000,000  50,000,000
License fees - small industry   1,000      2,000,000   3,000,000      4,000,000   5,000,000
Total                           24,457,000  35,601,000     46,753,000  57,970,000



ENVIRONMENT DIVISION
Structure
Implementation Phase
SECRETARY
|ADD SECRETARY ||_                                                                                            D  ERTR 
P OL S PLAN  ||MNGMN 
DIRECTOR       DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR   |I|TDIRECTOR         DIRE
NATRESOURSES  NTERNATAFFAIRS NDUSTRY SECTO    BUILTENVIR'T         LEGAL                                          MONSEVAL
DEPUTY          DEPUTY         DEPUTY                          DEPUTY      DEP DIRECTOR    DEP. DIRECTOR        DEPuTY                       DEP. DIRECTOR
DIRECTOR       DDIRECTOR        IRECTOR                        DIRECTOR        POLICY        PROGRAMS           DIRECTOR                         HRD.
ASSISTANT                      ASSISTANT       ASSISTANT                                                        ASSISTANT
DIRECTOR                       DIRECTOR        DIRECTOR                                                         DIRECTOR
;>
_00






Annex 8
Chart 2
CENTRAL ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCY
Overall Structure
Implementation Phase
DIRECTOR
GENERAL
I - 
DEP DIRECTOR    DEP DIRECTOR    DEP DIRECTOR
GENERAL 1       GENERAL 2       GENERAL 3
[DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR
LEGAL SERVICES     REGIONS
DEPUTY
|DDIRECTORCT
FFIER       ASSISTANT    l
._ ~~DIRECTORSl
LEGAL       ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSISTANT       OFFICERS






Annex 8
Chart 3
CENTRAL ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCY
Deputy Director General 1
DDRGNRAL
n     r|DIRECTOR                                       DIRECTOR          DIE  O
E N POL CONTROL   N         ER       N POL CONTROL 2  N                    LAB SERVICESC A
DEPUTY             DEPUTY          A      NDEPUTY      DEPUTY          D. DIRECTOR         D. DIRECTOR
DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR         DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR          ANAL YSIS         MONITORING
ASSISTANT          ASSISTANT        A ASISTANT         ASSISTANT  h       CHEMIST           ELECTRONIC 
DIRECTOR   J       DIRECTOR  J      DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR  ||                         ENGINQEER i|
IENVIRONMENTAL       ENVIRONMENTAL    ENVIRONMENTAL     ENVIRONMENTAL 
OFFICER       h    OFFICER          OFFI *CER          OFFICER     
ENVIRONMENTAL       ENVIRONME NTAL 1 ENVIRONMENTAL       E NVIRONME NTAL    SN R LABORATORY    TECHN ICAL  m
ASSISTANT       |ASSISTANT          ASSISTANT          ASSISTANT         ASSISTANT          ASSISTANT 






Annex J
Page 1 of 1
Procurement Plan: Republic of Georgia - Agricultural Development Project
(expressed in US$'000)
Description             Type    No. of   Estimated  Procurement  Document Invitation Contract  Contract
contracts   cost      method    preparation  to bid   signing  completion
Equiprnent
Equipment for LRU                    G            3       435    ICB/IS        Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Apr-97
Equipment for LROs                   G            3       200      IS           Dec-96   Jan-97   Jan-97    Feb-98
Equipment for CUDC                   G            4       255      IS           Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Apr-97
Equipment for CE                     G            1        40      IS           Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Apr-97
Sub-total                                                 930
Technical Assistance
Consultancies/TA CE                CF/Cl          1       160      IC           Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Dec-01
Consultancies/TA LRU               CF/Cl          6       524    SSF/IC        Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Dec-01
Studies                            CF/Cl          7       500    SSF/IC        Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Dec-01
Sub-total                                                1184
Technical Services
Boundary Surveys                    TS           18      1060      NCB          Jan-97   Mar-97   May-97    Dec-01
Boundary Surveys                    TS           32      2220      NBF          Jan-97   Mar-97   May-97    Dec-01
Mapping                             TS            9       245      NCB          Jan-97   Mar-97   May-97    Dec-01
Aerial Photography                  TS            1       444      ICB          Sep-99   Dec-99   Apr-01    Dec-01
Sub-total                                                3969
Credit Line
Credit to Enterprises/CU Loans       G                  12815    NSIIS          Jan-97   Mar-97    -        Dec-01
Credit to Enterprises/CU Grants      G                   5400      NBF          Jan-97   Mar-97    -        Dec-01
Sub-total                                               18215
Prolect Ooerating Cost
Sub-total                                         -      1546
PPF
PPF - Surveing equipment for LRU     G            3       123      IS           Apr-96   Jul-96   Jul-96    Jul-96
PPF - Office equipment for PCU       G            1        40      IS          May-96   Jun-96    Jul-96    Jul-96
PPF - Aerial Photography            TS            1        60      IS           Jun-96   Jun-96    Jul-96    Dec-96
PPF - ConsuHtancies PCU              Cl           6        60      SSI          Sep-96   Oct-96   Nov-96    Dec-96
PPF - Project Implementation       CF/Cl          4       220    SLF/IC         Sep-96   Oct-96   Nov-96    Dec-96
Sub-total                                                 503
TOTAL                                                   2637
Note:
Tyjpe G -goods; CF - consulting firms; Cl - individual consultants; TS- technical services
Procurernent Method: ICB - intemational competitive bidding; NCB - national competitive bidding; IS - international shopping;
SSF - sole-sourcing of consulting firms; IC - individual consultants






Annex K                                     Page 1 of 1
Project Supervision Plan
Approximate                  Activity                    Expected Skill Requirement       Staff
Dates                                                                                Weeks
FY-97            Project start up                      Task Manager (Economist)              6
4/97                                                   Credit Specialist
FY-98            Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              8
8/97             Review overall progress and the       Credit Specialist
implementation of procurement and    Land Registration Specialist
accounting procedures                Procurement Specialist
12/97            Supervision                          Task Manager (Economist)              4
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
04/98            Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
FY-99            Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
08/98            Review overall progress               Credit Specialist
12/98            Supervision                          Task Manager (Economist)               6
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
Land Registration Specialist
06/99            Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist),             12
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist, Land Registration
Mid Term Review                      Specialist,
Ag. Services Specialist
FY-2000          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
12/99            Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
06/2000          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              6
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
Land Registration Specialist
FY-2001          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
12/2000          Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
06/2001          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              6
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
Land Registration Specialist
FY-2002          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
11/2001          Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
05/2002          Supervision and Implementation        Task Manager (Economist),            12
Completion Report                    Credit Specialist, Land Reform
Specialist, Ag. Services Specialist






Annex L                               Page 1 of 1
Documents in File
The following documents are available in project file.
1.    Georgia, Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan, Identification Report, Two Volumes, June 30,
1995
2.    Project Preparation Report, Land Reform Component (April-August 1995), by J. G. Price
3.    World bank: Georgia - Agricultural Development and Privatization Project, Privatization and
Restructuring Assignment, Final Report, Ben Shahar Associates, September 20, 1995
4.    Recommendations for Strengthening Agricultural Research, Extension, and Support Services
in Georgia, Submitted to the World Bank by Duane Acker, September 30, 1995
5.    Agriculture Privatization and Development Project, Credit Component Preparation,
Consultancy Report, By J. Peter Marion, October 1995
6.    Private/SME Sector and Project Evaluation, Report by Coopers and Lybrand
Consultants for European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, May 1996.






MAP SECTION






82-
SRI LANKA
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT
LOCATION OF THE PILOT LAND MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
JAFFNA
hJnafftqPILOT LAND MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
o    TOWNS
@    PROVINCE CAPITALS
.    NATIONAL CAPITAL
M- AIN ROADS
RAILROADS
RIVERS
---- WATER CONVEYING TUNNELS
,   |   ,   Tl L L A I T I V U  )            RESERVOIRS
_____---- _____-_.i'            NO         RN                                 ----- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- -    PROVINCE ROUNDARIES
INDIA~~~~~~~~~~~  N
A~~ S______<  -' 0100 A  jof5
0. Wo,Id hook Droop-dho                         OR
NIANNAR                     CEVA NIYATR'   ----
'                   A             R HAV INICOAtE
t / . / > ff \ '1''/ k~~~~~ALONN  RUV{Aj\
aRTH\                                                                            -\~RT                               v-
\ E NK U R U NTEAL A                              '                             t1BATTICALOA 
t N D IA N    j  >,  WESTf'. 0    2.i       : llt   ) .  X t\t                 EASTERN, 
O  C E A N <PRO VIN CE,80>:SAR
r~ ~ ;e E A L                   eAUt'\QA
\\,W,ETtEI r >  f      f    \         <.t  >-PROVINCEEs                                      1
N C E  \        u               /: ~~~~NUAR,  BA U" \          VAI-
PAH                                     LIYAMU   tx\ g'\    
a ~ ~~~~~~                                    ~~~   MONARA ALA f
KAoG KAU AR ILEA\JIMTAA 
%,    SCUt;HRN'sPROVINCE 
Th.  ok th.-.i-                                                                    H..6on jgkmft  /
6  suchbozsw'anes.   fiY   ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~           81' ~i N' D I A N                )i   AN              8    *1






IBRRO 27673
00  B1                                            85                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
AORO-ECOLOOICAL      ~~MONTHLY HISTrORAMS    75% EXPECTANCY                       75% EXPECTANCY
SRI LANKA                                               AGzCOO  CLOF 75%                                            VALUE OF                        OFDRYNESS                                 MA)OR SOILOGROUPS                          TERRAIN
ENVIRONMENTA LACTION  1 PROJECT                                       2         REGION SYMEOL                 RAJNFAPIROEkAEIUTY            ANULFRPTILRMO S
100~~~00                        AGRO-ECOLOGICAL REGIONS-                                          -FOREFCVEE ON                                                  RAFAL(n)_                                                                                                            _____
l~~~l                       I~~~AN  FEB MAR  MAR  JUN  AA  AUG SEP
PILOT LAND MANAGEMENT COMPONENT                             WU                                                         135..-.Io.Pdo, ho   Ooo. .oI                                                                                   ;~~o.""
AGRO-ECOLOGICA1 REGION BOUNDARIESdi.l4ipo   105
DI3&4                      -   ~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                             00
MLLIROOCIOCWU                            ~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIESWU                                                                ~     F--C                    .5I                     F    SM     .       .      .          RAYI.P4,.o,pd.*o.Rgo*
WUS  ~         17~~T.77~TT.            ~                                                                  0.4-641., PAl,, .opl, .11.p'o'J"'."F  Al .o.,o...   ..R10.,
Co.p,9.IoA by:               I~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                   R.d-Y.lIoo.Fo4..I,.,o,I,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dR.dYe..I..l..,R,oYo1-Io  SP,  4 -pIpY d1jP.*F.d-py , - blIpl
PROVINCE                                          C -   OAMp,Diiio                                      WMl                  J                                      125I                                                          .,IsoPI..-h p..0nAIl h-.0..odol
DXo..t of Ag,-cI-*p                     U.
0    z  r-Tr-*----1                              .55               15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J    F  M  .     . .     .     . R.M41,BL,-   -i1,I,lo,.Boop          S..,pIy di....d, WI,
WM2    .L                                                                                                                  L--dRLY1-   d14-
ID   l~~~~~~~~~~I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   0                                                                  100..,~~~~~~~~~~~Rd4 oo- ]e..II-b. -1,  ... ..4. M l  04 l-
L3&4~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                             ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WM3- 5  IT    F   SM  AZ.    L .- diI ERo,op It.w, Po.-,. l.4o.Bop        ll   ,.PA   I
100  IS    F   .       .    .    .     .    .  R-d~~~~~1.-YAlo.. PodoAo.Ii1 W  R.d-IMI,, Pd.I.k  R.116g od.,pd,I,
WL1.T                                                                                                                    So.l..6.41,-yo.P,--,Al ho.--
z                                                                                                                               R7 Bd-Y.II1- FodolIk -I,, Red-Y.All .odoolo, -.01'-
.......                                                                       ~~~~~~~                                                              ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~W1.2  75_____f_                   .     -Ill,.dd .6.*b0.-d I-.-.GI.,
WMA                                                 60               LS   F ,F00I,500               Aoenp ond~ EogRp11.Hell--dg ole
WL13 Red-Yel... PA.oI-k  -d, -,Ip ofF -d hood WI    d[..,-l
*       ,\4    APOS..    WAIpt' 
NORTH  L  11 ..?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,j,  ..... Iy .dpoln
1U2                           J i          7               S                 . P    SM    J45              A   5S        Red W-Y P.II&FI,, -1, l,d .--Reg.01.,          00.      .Ae
DLI                            IU3                                                         45                    F    S~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M . J J   ASS5  Redi.  SodoIk.iI,o d       cdII,ng y
ILI  ILl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l..d.ee,Il
a  Ml                                                .~~            ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55  M    .S   I J   A    5S  R.did,oh A-  E-o, -od 1 - , -E,o   ...  RdIingI,yodt,-eep
11-   -J                                               M2                                                          AS1.5    F                           I   J I   A    S        R.ddi,hBpo-E.h,o-d!  ..ep.L.o                  Ro11pg.IIFodly -d
NORTH    IVC                                                                 .   ~          ,MS                                                                                     F3                          M A    P5 J1         A   S            odRdoBM,L.ndEOOIPS        ~     ,14         S,I o d -1.d, 61
REN                    '1*0-1  Rd V='01                                            -                                             0-0!
051000          WU2    p... -A-,                                                                                                 ~e   PS                                                              14,5      1   A     I        R.dp,hS,o,PoYh,lnpFOpoFeEOpLO",YOpp
't                                                                                                                         H'd    d L., - -d ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I, .. Id~R.on  el.. o.o
112                                                                                       Lo,pPopppp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R   _  .1I.p.o_l,
P                                                                                                                                                                           H.." C],~~~~~~S  .00 050
S.   ~     N                                 R*RAAAa                                                  11.3                j                                      .35                IF       SM   '05 J J   A    IS             LolooGI, --6l
PROVINCE                                                   DLI
DES  -. -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                   - ,.
FOlIO  :  I.'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L3R-.1                                                                                          MD1F.
oil    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    o~~~~ 3U           JS   H   SM   M      J J1     A    55          A d,,Bo.okodeA oGpoI                        Ud.n
DL3&4   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~FT                             A    A     I                     Dop.l, 1.6-i.d  op.I. Reddsl B,ooF Ro,Iy
E                           C'           DL5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 20Jop J J A                                                             S         Rlddh Alo-~ E-ho, -,e Solo... -O.F H9p-,       UMOdPo, -d! 1l0,
*le**    .0000                                                       G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6m;leylo     H-0 GR.yO. -1,  -!S -
at-                                                            -
I~~1    D13&4  ~                     15   F   A    A    1   1   A  ~             014 ISoAl,.d 540,.,. op.d Iopooobok,               ,l0IPPrp ,,MARCH 199









IMAGING
Report No.:         15261   CE
Type:     SAR



