                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 28933

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (PPFI-P9170 IF-N0140)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.7 MILLION (US$14.8 MILLION)

                                         TO THE

                              GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA

                                         FOR THE

                          ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT




                                       June 15, 2004




Environment and Social Development Unit
South Asia Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective June 7, 2004)

                     Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupee
                          SLRs 1.0 = US$ 0.010
                            US$ 1 = SLRs 99.97
                             Borrowers
                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1  December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS      -  Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      -  Community Based Organization
CCD      -  Coast Conservation Department
CEA      -  Central Environmental Authority
CEIF     -  Community Environmental Initiatives Facility
CEPOM    -  Committees for Environmental Policy and Management
CFE      -  Caring For the Environment
CIEDP    -  Committee for Integrating Environment into Development Policy
DAC      -  Development Assistance Committee
DEO      -  Divisional Environmental Officers
DNZG     -  Department of National Zoological Gardens
DWC      -  Department of Wildlife Conservation
EA1P     -  Environment Action 1 Project
EIA      -  Environment Impact Assessment
EMO      -  Environment Management Officer
EPL      -  Environment Protection License
FD       -  Forest Department
GSMB     -  Geological Survey's and Mines Bureau
GOSL     -  Government of Sri Lanka
IA       -  Implementing Agency
ID       -  Institutional Development
IDA      -  International Development Agency
JTF      -  Janasaviya Trust Fund
MENR     -  Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MOE      -  Ministry of Environment
NEA      -  National Environmental Act
NEAP     -  National Environment Action Plan
NGO      -  Non-Governmental Organization
NRMC     -  Natural Resource Management Centre
NWPEA    -  North Wastern Provincial Environmental Authority
OECD     -  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PLMC     -  Pilot Land Management Component
PMU      -  Project Management Unit
PO       -  Partner Organization
PRSP     -  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

QAG      -      Quality Assurance Group
RO       -      Regional Offices
SAR      -      Staff Appraisal Report
TOR      -      Terms of Reference

                        Vice President:  Praful C Patel
                     Country Director    Peter Harrold
                      Sector Manager     Jeffrey Racki
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sumith Pilapitiya

                                         SRI LANKA
                               ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrowers Evaluation                                                    42

Project ID: P010513                                                  Project Name: ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Sumith Pilapitiya                                       TL Unit: SASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 17, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 1 PROJECT                           L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9170; IF-N0140
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (59%); Other social services
                            (41%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Pollution management
                            and environmental health (P); Land management (P); Other rural
                            development (P); Participation and civic engagement (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/23/1993                                     Effective: 07/22/1997                07/22/1997
     Appraisal: 01/12/1996                                         MTR: 09/01/1999                  11/10/2000
      Approval: 03/27/1997                                      Closing: 12/01/2002                 12/01/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOSL/Ministry of Environment
                      Other Partners:      Central Environmental Authority, Central Provincial Council,
                                           Communities/NGOs

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Fakruddin Ahmed (Acting Director)
Sector Manager:                 Jeffrey Racki                                  Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:             Sumith Pilapitiya                              Ivar Serejski
ICR Primary Author:             Paul Steele


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's primary objective was to assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) in
strengthening the institutional and policy framework for environmental management within which
the International Development Agency (IDA) and other donors would provide assistance for
improved environmental management. In particular the project would (i) support the
restructuring of the Ministry for better policy planning and coordination and the strengthening of
the Central Environmental Authority's (CEA) analytical, monitoring and enforcement
responsibilities (ii) support ongoing efforts to integrate environmental considerations in the overall
development planning process and (iii) help GOSL take immediate remedial measures to reverse
the trend of environmental degradation through participatory approaches to environmental
management.

The objectives and design of the Environmental Action 1 Project (EA1P), should be assessed in
the context of the environmental management situation that was prevailing in the country prior to
the project.

Environmental management institutions: At the time the project was prepared, the Government
of Sri Lanka had taken initial steps to address environmental issues. On the institutional front, it
established the CEA under the National Environmental Act (NEA) in 1980, as the main regulator
responsible for the enforcement of the NEA. The NEA also gives a policy mandate to the CEA,
since there was no Ministry of Environment at that time. A decade later, in 1990, GOSL
established a Ministry to be responsible for the subject of environment - Ministry of Environment
and Parliamentary Affairs- which also had the mandate for the development of environmental
policy in the country. At that time, the Ministry had little or no technical capacity and therefore
was unable to effectively assume the role of policy making for the sector. The CEA was initially
constrained by a vague mandate, weak government commitment, limited resources and a lack of
specific environmental management tools and implementation authority. To rectify this,
amendments were made to the NEA in 1988 to enable CEA to issue Environmental Protection
Licenses (EPL) to control industrial and urban pollution and mandate Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIA) for designated development projects. Although equipped with effective
environmental management tools, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the project identifies that
even after 1990, CEA is still weak as it "failed to articulate a strategic plan, adequately to
strengthen its technical ability or achieve visible successes in pollution control".

Role of communities in environmental management: While rural communities in particular, are
key stakeholders in the proper management of natural resources in the country, the SAR notes
that by 1996 "there has been limited community involvement in the management of natural
resources".
Project objectives: EA1P is consistent with the strong emphasis that GOSL has placed on
environmental management. The SAR states that EA1P fits with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) at that time (May 1996) in strengthening private sector involvement, improved
coordination and a market driven approach to environmental management. The project's focus
on the integration of environment into the development planning process is highly important ­ and
predates what has now become a core international concern as exemplified by the internationally



                                                  - 2 -

agreed Millennium Development Goal for the environment to "integrate the principles of
sustainable development into country policies and programs." The project objectives were
necessarily quite general, to allow flexibility in response to changing constraints and opportunities.


Shortcomings in objectives ­ lack of focus on outcomes: The project's objective of a framework
for assistance by which IDA and other donors would provide assistance for improved
environmental management, indicates an undue emphasis on the role of donors. This shortcoming
was noted by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in a review of the project in 1999: "there is a
general over-abundance of key performance indicators in the project, many of which only monitor
inputs."

Realism and complexity of objectives: The project was an ambitious mix of improving
governance through institutional, economic and regulatory reforms and innovative use of the
private sector, civil society and sub-national authorities. For CEA in particular, it set challenging
objectives of improving "monitoring and enforcement" for a weak institution in a context where
public sector enforcement is low. The project also attempted to solve all CEA's enforcement and
monitoring problems within a five year time span. It also expected the government to take a
strategic long term vision for the environment sector in an atmosphere of short term politically
driven agendas where the country situation was politically unstable and involved civil conflict.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (US$ $12.5 million)
The institutional strengthening component supported: (i) restructuring the Environment Division
of the Ministry to allow it to play a central role in environmental policy, planning and coordination
at the national level; (ii) restructuring and strengthening CEA through the establishment and
implementation of a staff development program, enhancement of the EPL program, improvement
of EIA capacity and strengthening of the environmental information system; (iii) provision of
office and technical facilities for accommodation of both CEA and the Environment Division of
the Ministry of Environment; and (iv) studies of the linkages between sector and economy wide
policies and the environment and regular updating of the National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP).

Component 2: Community Environmental Initiatives Facility (US$ 4.7 million)
A Community Environmental Initiatives Facility (CEIF) was established to finance well planned
environmental activities at the grass roots level within NEAP priority areas. CEIF provided a
mechanism to involve NGOs and communities in participatory environmental management
activities.

Component 3: Pilot Land Management Component (US$ 3.5 million)
The pilot land management component (PLMC) entailed pilot projects involving community
participation in rehabilitating degraded lands in hilly areas, by testing and developing suitable
technology for minimizing land degradation on a micro-watershed basis, thereby increasing


                                                   - 3 -

agricultural productivity. The component also attempted to define technical and investment
criteria useful in replicating watershed development activities in other hilly areas.

The design of project components should have been more focused on achieving the outcomes
intended by the objectives described above. The institutional strengthening component was
designed to address the institutional weaknesses and conflicting mandates of environmental
management institutions which have been identified in NEAP as a vital factor contributing to the
perpetuation of environmental degradation. The CEIF and PLMC components are attempts to
involve communities in participatory environmental management to reverse the trend of
environmental degradation and ensure sustainable management of natural resources.

3.4 Revised Components:
During the mid term review, in keeping with the project's primary objective of assisting GOSL in
strengthening the institutional and policy framework for environmental management in Sri Lanka,
the project scope was expanded to include institutional support for environmental management in
selected sub national agencies and sectoral line ministries. Sub national agencies such as North
Western Province, Southern Province and Uva Provinces and a pilot Local Authority in the
Southern Province were selected for limited institutional support under the project. The activities
supported in each province were dependent upon the environmental capabilities and absorptive
capacity of the respective sub-national agencies. In addition, development oriented sectoral
ministries such as housing and urban development, power and energy, irrigation and water
management, industrial development and health were provided with technical assistance, through
the Ministry of Environment, for integrating environmental issues into their sector development
plans.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Weakness in the design of the institutional strengthening component: The component for
institutional strengthening had ambitious objectives, but had learned little from prior projects in
the sector, particularly with regard to limitations in absorptive capacity. It was also developed
with limited GOSL ownership. With regard to the Environment Division of the Ministry of
Environment (MOE), the SAR states that it would be strengthened "to assist the development of
policy and monitoring capabilities and mandate the regular updating of NEAP, and to steer natural
resource management and planning".        However the design included few effective suggestions on
how such outcomes could be achieved. The process of institutional strengthening also relied on
an unimaginative and formulaic approach - focusing on hardware approaches (buildings,
computers, Geographical Information Systems) and an over-emphasis on external supply side
solutions (foreign training, foreign consultants, formal statements of reforms). The Technical
Assistance (TA) consultancy services for the CEA was especially poorly designed - with little
interest from the CEA, an unrealistic time frame, starting too early in the project and poor
sequencing ­ with too much reliance on complex environmental management instruments such as
load based licensing and inappropriate private sector involvement in the Sri Lankan context.
Considering government commitment towards devolution (in the context of the ethnic conflict), a
process which was initiated in 1987, the lack of explicit focus on sub-national agencies in the
project design was also a weakness.

Effective design of CEIF component: The Community Environmental Initiatives Facility (CEIF)


                                                 - 4 -

was risky (given recent negative experience of lending to NGOs through the Janasaviya Trust
Fund (JTF)), but innovative. The design benefited from learning valuable lessons from past
participatory approaches. In particular, beneficiaries had to contribute a minimum of 20% in cash
or kind, project selection was by independent private consultants according to agreed criteria
based on an Operations Manual, with individual projects being approved by a Committee chaired
by the Ministry of Environment, which included NGO representatives and professionals from
within and outside government.

Weakness in design of pilot land management component: The land management component was
designed as a pilot to promote community involvement in soil conservation and watershed
management. Since reversing the trend of land degradation is clearly a high national
environmental priority, the pilot was intended primarily to develop models in participatory land
management, while a secondary objective was that successful models to be scaled up for
implementation in hilly regions of the country. However, the limited link to the relevant national
agencies and ministries made it almost inevitable that the "pilot" land management component
would not feed into broader agriculture policy or implementation. The implementation
arrangements outlined in the SAR were very complex in a country where inter-agency
coordination is weak at best, particularly with regard to the transfer of successful lessons from
sub-national agencies to national agencies. An MOE evaluation of the land component concludes:
"The Provincial Steering Committee members felt that this component was designed to fail, if the
implementation process had followed the institutional arrangements outlined in the SAR."

Unsatisfactory rating: Based on the above, Quality at Entry is rated as unsatisfactory, given
weaknesses in the institutional strengthening component, such as a lack of emphasis on improved
environmental outcomes, limited GOSL ownership and a formulaic approach to capacity building,
inappropriate design and timing of consultancy services and over-ambitious targets for the CEA.
The land management component was poorly conceived and failed to make appropriate linkages
with national institutions for replication and upscaling.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
A World Bank review --"The Environmental Capacity Building: a Review of the World Bank's
Portfolio" and "Developing Environmental Capacity, a Framework for Donor Involvement" by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development -- Development Assistance
Committee, provided a relevant benchmark that was used to assess the outcomes and
achievements of EA1P.

(i) Improved environmental management: One of the most significant achievements was the
rationalization of environmental management institutions within government. The Ministry in
addition to CEA, now includes Forest Department (FD), Department of Wildlife Conservation
(DWC), Marine Pollution Prevention Authority (MPPA), Department of National Zoological
Gardens (DNZG) and Geological Survey and Mines Bureau (GSMB), giving it extensive control
over environment and natural resource management agencies. These institutions were under four
different ministries in 1997. The rationalized Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(MENR) survived two government changes, without fragmentation, which is an achievement in



                                                 - 5 -

itself. In keeping with GOSL's policy of devolution, the CEA has taken steps to decentralize their
operations to the regions. The Ministry of Environment and CEA has a much larger, better
trained staff. MOE has taken the leadership role in environmental policy development and is more
effective in the coordination of environmental and natural resource management. Creation of
CEA Regional Offices is a vital step forward for improved environmental enforcement and
monitoring. Other line agencies and the private sector are more committed to environmental
management now. Sub-national government bodies are taking their responsibilities more seriously
­ particularly in terms of solid waste management. Participatory environmental management has
been significantly increased by CEIF ­ perhaps the most unexpected and dramatic success of
EA1P. However, there is still a sense that much more could have been achieved given the
volume of funds spent.

(ii) Some success with integrating environment into the national development planning process:
This SAR objective has had some success, as MOE has ­ with strong engagement from other line
agencies and sector ministries ­ revised the NEAP for the third time as "Caring for the
Environment (2004-6)" (CFE). Sri Lanka's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)--
"Regaining Sri Lanka" has noted the importance of environment for poverty reduction and
growth stating that "the nexus of poverty and natural resources has immense macro-economic
impacts." A strengthened Ministry of Environment played a key role in integrating environment
into Sri Lanka's PRSP.

(iii) Success with participatory approaches to environmental management: This SAR objective
has been achieved successfully through CEIF and PLMC where participatory approaches to
environmental management have led to reversals in the trend of environmental degradation. CEIF
also succeeded in avoiding dominance by the more established Colombo based
Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and instead strengthened smaller Community Based
Organisations (CBOs) and NGO's in rural areas. Through the implementation of CEIF, the
Ministry of Environment has realized the benefits of community based environmental
management and has made conscious efforts to get NGO's and CBO's involved in environmental
management, even after the project. PLMC has led to strengthened community and farmer
organizations being involved in improved soil erosion control and micro-watershed management.


Many key stakeholders been given greater environmental understanding: While not a major
objective of EA1P, this has been one of its most lasting achievements. The project supported
greater environmental understanding among many key groups, including university graduates,
school children, other line Ministries and agencies, sub-national authorities, the private sector,
journalists, NGOs and even the judiciary, through training and environmental education, which
has helped to contribute to a step change in demand for more effective environmental
management.

Growing accountability of environmental institutions to the public: Perhaps the most important
development in environmental management over the last six years has been a growing
accountability of the Ministry of Environment, CEA and other environmental institutions to their
own public ­ other government institutions, private sector and NGOs. The rise of NGOs and



                                               - 6 -

community awareness is illustrated by the way public interest litigation (often with cases taken
against MOE, CEA and Local Authorities) has stimulated some of the major examples of
improved environmental implementation and better enforcement ­ relating to sand mining, air
pollution, wetlands protection, industrial pollution control and municipal solid waste management.
This has increased accountability as much as supply side changes in government institutions have
strengthened environmental management in Sri Lanka.

Effects on environmental outcomes are mixed: The impact of these positive institutional
developments on environmental outcomes is less clear. The importance of improving
environmental outcomes was not highlighted adequately in the project design. Largely anecdotal
evidence suggests a diverse picture for environmental outcome indicators over the last six years ­
and the failure to collect proper time series data is a real shortcoming in monitoring the project
and other interventions in the environment sector in Sri Lanka.

Satisfactory outcome overall: The project's overall outcome is satisfactory as it has achieved the
project objectives.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening
(i) Ministry of Environment - Satisfactory overall: This sub-component was satisfactory, in
that over six years, MOE has become a stronger institution with more effective management
systems. It has been able to play a central role in environmental policy, planning and coordination
at the national level. Ministry staff now develop policies with only limited inputs from national
consultants (if at all), whereas five years ago, MOE was a fiefdom for national and international
consultants. In addition to taking the leadership in the preparation of the 3rd NEAP --"Caring for
the Environment", the Ministry has developed a National Environmental Policy, National Solid
Waste Management Strategy and Action Plan, Implementation Plan for the National Involuntary
Resettlement Policy, Wetlands Policy, a Clean Development Mechanism Strategy for Sri Lanka,
National Action Plan to Prevent Land Degradation, an Addendum to the Framework Biodiversity
Conservation Action Plan and a revised Air Pollution Management Strategy, to name a few. In
terms of key activities, MOE led the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol and standards for organic
products. The flagship output, "Caring for the Environment" (2003-7) ­ the third iteration of the
NEAP - is clearly owned by MOE in a way that the 1998-2001 NEAP never was ­ although many
of the recommendations remain the same. Staff at all levels in the Ministry are now considerably
more focused and committed.

Some success in integrating environment into other GOSL agencies: One successful approach
tried by the Ministry of Environment to encourage the integration of environment into
development activities by other sectoral Ministries and line agencies, was to provide them with
catalytic support in terms of technical staff and training. For example, EA1P funded the
placement of Environmental Associates who were Masters degree holders in environment related
fields into Planning Units of about 10 key sector ministries, whose mandates had potential
environmental impacts.

Donor coordination: One of the challenges identified in the SAR was to improve donor
coordination to ensure complimentary support to the sector. In 1999, the World Bank hosted a


                                                  - 7 -

donor conference on environment in Sri Lanka. The objective was for the Ministry of
Environment to continue annual meetings to coordinate among the donors to the environment
sector. However, donor coordination is considered a responsibility of the External Resources
Department of the Ministry of Finance, so MOE was unable to formalize such annual meetings.
Nevertheless, MOE has developed an informal mechanism of coordinating with the main
environmental donors in Sri Lanka and this informal approach has been proven to be very
effective.

Annual work plans: After the completion of the international Technical Assistance consultants
input to the project in the third year, all work plans and programs were prepared by MOE staff
with no inputs from international or national consultants. While the initial work plans lacked a
strategic focus and looked like an adhoc collection of activities, over the last two years MOE's
annual work plans were more strategic and are beginning to focus on outcomes.

(ii) Central Environmental Authority Satisfactory overall, although it was marginally
satisfactory at first: The CEA component is rated as marginally satisfactory during the first four
years of the project, but showed satisfactory progress thereafter. Although improvements were
made in the first four years, particularly due to a significant increase in staff numbers, many of the
underlying weaknesses of CEA remained. It was only in the last two years of the project that the
situation began to improve and performance moved to being satisfactory.

Many enforcement challenges for CEA remain, despite recent improvements: Although CEA
staff resources and infrastructure have been improved under EA1P, the CEA has been slow, until
recently, to improve its analytical, monitoring and enforcement responsibilities. After almost four
and a half years of dialogue with CEA management (with four different Chairman), perhaps the
most significant step in improving the CEA's monitoring and enforcement capabilities was taken.
The CEA decided, in late 2002, to establish regional offices and decentralize its enforcement
operations. To this end, CEA has already opened four regional offices and four sub-regional
offices. The new building to house the entire CEA has made a considerable difference to CEA
effectiveness compared to five years ago when it was spread among four different locations
scattered throughout Colombo. However, the TA consultancy services for the CEA was poorly
designed in terms of being over-ambitious, poorly timed and sequenced and with a misconceived
over-emphasis on the role of the private sector. Therefore, it did not have the anticipated impact
on CEA performance. The CEA has also been challenged by factors that are largely outside its
control ­ including high public expectations, industry resistance to pollution control, frequent
changes in CEA leadership and political interference in enforcement.

Pollution monitoring still reactive: At the inception of EA1P, the CEA had a significant backlog
of EPL applications, which has been completely cleared now. An EPL database has been
developed under the project to enable the CEA to be more systematic in EPL monitoring. In
order to reduce its dependency on the government budget, the EPL fee structure was substantially
increased from Rs.750 to Rs. 15,000. Yet, the CEA approach is generally reactive, responding to
complaints ­ rather than effective enforcement to reduce the cause of complaints.

Overall, compliance with EIA approval conditions are still poor: CEA has legislated EIAs for all



                                                  - 8 -

development projects that have the potential for environmental impacts. While the EIA review
and approval mechanism is functioning well (with several projects having being rejected based on
its adverse environmental impacts), monitoring of EIA approval conditions is the weak link in the
system. CEA has made some improvements over the past six years and commenced monitoring
compliance of EIA approval conditions - at least, for some large projects. This has in a few
cases, made a significant difference in actually ensuring that the mitigation measures outlined in
the EIA reports are actually implemented.

Increased analytical capacity: The project has funded the much needed equipment for CEA head
office and some regional offices so that routine enforcement can be effectively undertaken. A
program to obtain accreditation of the CEA laboratory was supported under EA1P and is still
underway. The delay in accreditation is due to the need for quality enhancement and
incorporation of proper laboratory systems at the CEA. When accredited, CEA will be the first
accredited environmental laboratory in the country.

(iii) Sub-national Agencies - Stronger sub-national agencies: This sub-component which was
included during mid term, was satisfactory overall. Capacity at the only provincial environmental
regulatory agency ­ North Western Provincial Environmental Authority (NWPEA) ­ was
strengthened under EA1P with post graduate training for staff at a specially designed diploma
course focusing on environmental problems unique to the province. Codes of practice to address
critical environmental problems in the North Western Province were prepared with consultancy
assistance. Overall environmental awareness and education was provided to agencies and local
authorities under the Uva Province and a pilot solid waste management program was initiated in
the Southern Province. A framework for the establishment of a Southern Provincial
Environmental Authority and a generic Provincial Environmental Statute was prepared under this
sub-component, although not implemented.

Component 2: Community Environmental Initiatives Facility
Satisfactory overall: The CEIF component was an unexpected success. As the Ministry
recognizes in its publication of CEIF success stories "CEIF has generated numerous success
stories at the grass-roots level, which certainly carries an enormous demonstration value to other
environmentally conscious groups." The aims of CEIF, according to the SAR were to "involve
communities through participatory methods in implementing demonstration environmental
activities, providing facilities to train local communities in participatory work in the field of
environment and conservation, and undertaking activities within priority areas of NEAP". This
was done by providing grants to "Partner Organizations" (PO), which was the lead organization
(largely NGO's, Local Authorities or even research organizations) who worked with an
"Implementing Agency" (IA), which was a community based organization, who actually
undertakes to implement the activities. The SAR's aim of undertaking activities in the NEAP
areas were well achieved with 432 sub-projects spread across the country in all of the main NEAP
areas. The largest share of the sub-projects were for land management (32%) followed by
forestry/biodiversity (28%), urban issues (17%), water issues (15%), coastal issues (5%), with
only a few projects for environmental health or energy. In terms of Partner Organizations, 58%
of sub-projects were undertaken by small and medium NGOs, 14% by local authorities, just under
5% by CBOs and approximately 3% each by Samurdhi, farmer organizations and



                                                   - 9 -

SANASA-cooperatives. Large NGOs only undertook less than 2% of the sub-projects. This
success is largely attributable to the Consultants' determination to hold orientation workshops to
publicize CEIF and explain the application procedure, throughout the country. Twenty five such
workshops were held which were attended by over 1300 organizations.

Poverty reduction gains: The poverty reducing aspects of CEIF projects were expected from its
design - as explained in the SAR since community based institutional structures "means identifying
and promoting the use of resources, in a manner that is not only sustainable, but that provides
adequate financial returns to users, thereby minimizing conflicts between growth and conservation
objectives." Although poverty reduction was only briefly mentioned in the CEIF selection
criteria, the expectation that poverty reduction would be given importance by local resource users
proved generally correct. Activities were started that increased livelihoods by improving the
management of the natural resource base.

Component 3: Pilot Land Management Component
Overall satisfactory: The PLMC was satisfactory ­ with effective implementation of land
management practices by beneficiary farmers in the micro-catchments for a nominal subsidy for
their labour of Rs 37.50 per linear meter of stone terracing and Rs 17.50 for vegetative methods.
The component succeeded in reducing land degradation and improving agricultural productivity
through participatory management of microwatersheds.

Some gains in poverty reduction: It is clear that the catchments selected and most of the
households who participated were poor. The project helped the conservation of 12,000 ha. of
watersheds and improve incomes for about 500 families in each watershed. Incomes were
improved by soil conservation measures, provision of planting materials and other income
generating activities. In some areas, the project also led to gains through improved linkages with
other public and private agencies. Overall, the project helped poor people improve their asset
base and improve access to markets ­ both of which are crucial steps in escaping out of poverty,
while conserving environmental resources.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic rate of return (ERR) was not calculated in the SAR for the institutional
strengthening and CEIF components of the project. An ERR of 24% was estimated for the
PLMC using farm survey data in the SAR. Farm income data is needed for the ERR estimation at
the completion of the project. However, due to virtually all beneficiaries of this component
participating in GOSL's "Samurdhi" or poverty alleviation program which provides a "dole" for
families living below the poverty line, it is impossible to get accurate farm income data from the
beneficiaries due to their fear of being ineligible for "Samurdhi" benefits. As a result, any data
collected from a survey of farm income would be inaccurate. Therefore, no ERR was estimated
at the completion of the project. Yet, most farmers seem to have benefited directly through the
payments for labour, but more significantly over the medium and long term many have noticed an
improvement in soil fertility and a reduction in the need for fertilizer.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated.




                                                  - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact was modest, overall. Since the institutional
development impact was component specific, it has been similarly reviewed.

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening
(i) Ministry of Environment - A more rational institutional mandate for the Ministry: During
the project period, GOSL has rationalized the allocation of environmental and natural resource
management agencies into one ministry -- "Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources"--
(MENR). This ministry has all environmental and natural resource conservation agencies under
its jurisdiction, except for Coast Conservation Department (CCD), which is currently under the
Ministry of Fisheries and Ocean Resources. The rational allocation of conservation agencies
under MENR survived two changes of government (2001 and 2004). While this is an encouraging
sign (since there was adhoc fragmentation of other ministries), there is no guarantee that this will
be the case in the future.

Improved structure of Ministry: The Ministry structure was developed through EA1P including a
Policy and Planning Unit and a more rational staffing structure exists now compared to six years
ago. The policy unit collates progress across the Ministry and its seven agencies in a quarterly
work plan. The unit has also been responsible for the production of CFE and its implementation
through the inter-ministerial Committees on Environmental Policy and Management (CEPOMS).


More qualified staff: Initial human resource development under EA1P was constrained by a long
delay in recruiting staff for the new posts. However, eventually recruitment of graduates from the
excellent environmental post graduate courses from national Universities (and financial support to
MOE staff without an MSc to register for post graduate courses) has given the Ministry perhaps
the best trained junior officers in any government Ministry ­ and this bodes well for future
development of the Ministry. EA1P funded over 400 staff from MOE and other GOSL
institutions to obtain post graduate degrees in environment related fields from national universities
- all for the cost of two international Masters degrees. The Ministry took a wise decision to scrap
the proposed long term national consultants indicated in the SAR and use the money instead for
recruiting Environmental Associates, who were graduates from MSc programs in environment
related fields.

(ii) Central Environmental Authority
Weak management systems: EA1P has helped improve the human and physical infrastructure of
the CEA, but the management systems are still weak ­ exemplified by the lack of a planning and
monitoring division (which is standard in most government agencies). CEA management is now
moving to address this shortcoming ­ with the creation of a Planning and Monitoring Division ­
although its staff at present is limited to two members. The CEA has initiated the preparation of
annual work plans ­ which need to focus on the CEA's core functions of reducing environmental
damage from the public and private sector through a coherent framework of linked EIAs and
EPLs. All CEA staff including the regional officers are now linked by computer and email is used
by top CEA management to share information with all staff. This wide communication by email
has already helped CEA create a more transparent and open office culture.




                                                - 11 -

Shortcomings in structure and human resource systems : The CEA continues to under-perform in
relation to its significant human resource capacity, largely due to a lack focus on environmental
outcomes. Despite extensive internal consultation, the CEA structure seems to have anomalies ­
for example with a large CEA staff of over 142 technical posts in the head office, only 28
positions are available (of which only 18 positions are actually filled in head office) for issuing and
monitoring EPLs in the Western Province ­ where 70% of the high polluting industry is located.
The 330 DEOs, who are located in Local Authorities and Divisional Secretariats have also been
very poorly utilized leading in some cases to their involvement in mundane, ad hoc tasks, low
morale and high absenteeism. The CEA is now seeking to address this through rationalizing the
use of DEOs with a clear list of duties and more effective monitoring by the Regional Offices.

Regional Offices (ROs) are a major step forward: The CEA has only been strategically pursuing
"regionalisation" in 2002, although the issue was discussed for the last 10 years. With support
from EA1P, four rationally located offices now exist headed by Deputy Directors, with four
Sub-Regional Offices, headed by Assistant Directors. Until recently, some of the more capable
ROs have been frustrated by the lack of delegated authority for them to function effectively.      As
with any decentralization program, there is some resistance from the Head Office to delegate
powers to the regions, particularly with regard to issuance of EPL's and management of small
EIAs. This limits the effectiveness and value added of the ROs. However, there is management
commitment for delegation, although this must also be done in a carefully monitored fashion to
avoid the danger of corruption that additional responsibility entails. The CEA is now planning to
experiment with devolution of EPL and other core functions to some of the more capable offices
in a phased manner.

Component 2: CEIF
Institutional development successes: This component had several institutional development
successes. Firstly it helped many smaller NGOs develop their capacity. In addition, the
sub-projects created a critical mass of NGO's and CBO's that established their own district and
national level consortium. This was developed based on the initiative of the NGOs themselves,
who felt the lack of lesson learning between similar projects and a desire for broader NGO
engagement (outside of the traditional Colombo based NGOs) with the CEIF management.
During EA1P, the consortium focused on supporting the weaker NGOs and improving the CEIF
operations.

Success in limiting corruption and political interference: The "Report on Independent
Evaluation on CEIF Project Activities" notes, an effective use of donor funds: "the funding
delivery mechanism and policy adopted by CEIF seems to be very effective at this point, leaving
minimal space for fund diversion or misuse." This is in marked contrast to the experience of the
JTF--an NGO grant scheme which preceded CEIF, which suffered from alleged corruption and
political interference. Ultimately just under 10% of the projects (41 projects) were cancelled or
abandoned due to deficiencies in implementation. However, the fact that these 41 projects were
actually formally cancelled is itself a sign of the overall success of the CEIF management process
­ since there were effective sanctions for nonperformance.

Limitations in beneficiary participation with implementing agencies not treated as equal



                                                  - 12 -

partners ­ while most projects had reasonable involvement with beneficiaries including extensive
contributions in kind, this involvement was rarely empowering. As the independent evaluation
concludes: "In many cases, the power of money (wage labor type), bureaucracy and politics
(samurdhi style) had been employed to promote participation instead of issue based and education
awareness. Thereby, community participation was more based on community compliance than
community empowerment. This may be attributed to the lack of experience of many PO-NGOs,
themselves being new comers to the NGO sector." In addition, POs as the stronger group had
little incentive in empowering the CBO's.

Positive impact on perceptions of the Ministry: The Ministry of Environment positively
acknowledges the CEIF in giving credibility to the NGO sector and values the consortium as
being able to articulate grassroots realities. The Ministry has invited the consortium to several
policy related discussions and is trying to engage them in other activities led by the Ministry,
including allocating them office space in the CEA building.

Component 3: Pilot Land Management
Success in beneficiary participation in conservation micro-watersheds: Beneficiary communities
were able to get involved in participatory micro-watershed management and successfully reduce
soil erosion in steep hillsides. The CBOs have been able to interact with provincial and national
government agencies to obtain technical advise and even financial support during and after EA1P.
The Provincial Department of Agriculture has initiated soil conservation activities in certain other
micro-watersheds in the Central Province, based on the participatory management techniques
developed by CBOs participating in this component.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Political instability did not help, but did not directly impact project: Sri Lanka held five
elections during the six year project period. While project activities were not directly impacted,
the associated political instability resulted in disruptions in project progress, particularly slowing
down the governments decision making process.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delayed filling of vacant staff posts: The protracted procedure that MOE and CEA were
required to follow to obtain the various GOSL approvals for filling staff positions took about two
years, even though the need for additional staff was agreed between the Bank and GOSL, at
appraisal. This resulted in the consultancy inputs coming at a time when the agencies were not
fully staffed. This is a systemic problem that has serious implications for future ID projects.

Lack of continuity in leadership: A key ingredient for institutional performance and reforms is
sustained and committed leadership. This was lacking at MOE and CEA, mainly due to the
frequent changes in their leadership. This was the main cause for poor outcomes in both
institutions. During the project period of six years, the Ministry of Environment had four changes
in Ministers, five different Secretaries to the ministry, four changes in CEA Chairman and two
different Directors General at the CEA. As can be expected, each change resulted in delays of
project implementation decisions, particularly with regard to reforms, thus adversely affecting



                                                     - 13 -

progress. While it is understood that changes in leadership of government agencies are inevitable,
political commitment to ensure that such changes are kept to a minimum is essential for
institutions being reformed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Relationship between MOE and CEA was poor but considerably improved now: MOE has often
had a fraught relationship with CEA partly arising from the existence of CEA for over a decade
prior to the Ministry ­ and the inevitable tensions once the Ministry took over the policy making
role from CEA. This has waxed and waned depending on personalities in the senior positions at
MOE and CEA ­ but the lack of trust and close working relationships at both senior and junior
levels has constrained both organizations. While the impact on project implementation was not
substantial, it nevertheless resulted in undue delays. The current situation at the highest levels of
both organizations is much more positive ­ although it now needs to percolate through to all
levels of staff.

Delays in finalizing the load based licensing program: The project attempted to introduce a load
based licensing program to address concerns of industry diluting wastewater to comply with
concentration based standards, that are currently in place. The project provided technical
assistance to assist CEA in establishing a suitable load based licensing system. Since this was a
new concept in Sri Lanka, two international study tours were planned to expose CEA and
industry representatives to actual implementation of such systems. There were considerable
delays in obtaining government approval for the study tours (approval took over two years)
during which time no pilot load based license program could be commenced due to opposition
from CEA and industry. CEA felt that they did not have the adequate technical confidence and
manpower to implement this approach, which changed for the positive after the study tour.
However, the study tour was so delayed that there was inadequate time under the project to
undertake a pilot load based license scheme. Had the study tours been on time, the outcome of
this activity may have been different.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Although not part of the original project design, the CEA regionalization program was supported
under EA1P. This resulted in the need for re-allocation of funds within the original disbursement
categories. Significant increases were needed in the allocations in the categories of equipment,
materials and vehicles (43%) as well as consultancy services and training (35%) to address the
regionalization program requirements. There was also a large increase (518%) in the operating
costs of the PLMC component. This was the result of an error in the original allocations for
operating costs (SDR 20,000), whereas the actual amount needed was SDR 123,000.

Of the SDR 10.7 Million allocated for the project, SDR 10.44 Million was disbursed, which
amounts to 97.55% of the total Credit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability likely ­ but very component and activity specific: Sustainability of the
overall project is assessed as being likely, where sustainability is defined as the probability of
maintaining the achievements over the economic life of the project.


                                                    - 14 -

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening
(i) Ministry of Environment has improved significantly: The Ministry was virtually an empty
shell at the commencement of EA1P, with all key functions and activities undertaken by
consultants. With training and staffing additions, the Ministry has one of the best trained cadres
of junior and middle level officials in any ministry in Sri Lanka. There are no national or
international consultants associated with the Ministry in its routine work, which is now fully
handled by its own cadre of staff. The mandate of the Ministry has been clarified and it is taking a
leadership role in the country in environmental policy development and is using the CEPOMS to
coordinate with other sectoral ministries in the integration of environment into the development
planning process. Under the leadership of MOE, the sectoral line ministries and sub-national
agencies are continuing, albeit slowly, to integrate environment into their development planning
process.

(ii) CEA weaknesses can be addressed with strong and committed management: CEA was
improved in terms of trained staff, equipment and facilities under the project. Improvements were
made to the EIA and EPL processes, which are CEAs main environmental management tools.
However, CEA performance suffered from the lack of continuity in leadership (four Chairman in
six years), at times, tension between the Chairman and DG, and with the Ministry, which
inevitably led to low staff morale and weak management systems. Project interventions alone
could not make substantial changes, but there are positive signs of an attitudinal change in the
CEA now, encouraged by the examples set by the present leadership ­ but it will require a long
term shift in institutional culture. The longer term outlook is, however, more hopeful as the CEA
does have a core of younger, well trained staff, whose energies can be utilized once proper
management systems are ingrained and the regionalization program gains ground.

Component 2: Community Environment Initiatives Facility
CEIF funded sub-projects - sustainability likely: Even one year after the end (December 2002)
of CEIF project funding, many of the projects appear to be continuing. They are either self
financing ­ through, for example, increased incomes from land improvement, sales of compost
and entrance fees to nature sites ­ or have found new funds from other government or donor
sources. One of the major reasons for sustainability of sub-projects is due to the requirement that
partner organizations had to be from the District where the project site was located. This
significantly contributed to sub-project success as the partners organizations were located
relatively near project sites, knew the locality and had greater accountability to the beneficiaries,
which promoted project sustainability. Of course, there were sub-project failures, for example
failure of monsoons and delayed rains resulted in adversely affecting forestry projects. In
addition, some failures were due to negligence and poor community involvement after the project
funding ceased.

The National NGO Consortium - sustainability highly likely: The National Consortium, with 375
NGO's as members (affiliated to 2500 CBOs) remain actively involved in CEIF projects as well as
in new development projects. Membership in the Consortia costs Rs. 1200 annually ­ leading to a
more than Rs 1 million balance in the Consortium's bank account. Similar activism exists within
the 14 District level consortia. For example the Ratnapura District consortium had 22 member



                                                 - 15 -

organizations ­ three of whom joined in 2003 and had received no CEIF funding. The current
Secretary of the National Consortium says that the organization is having some success at
"changing the NGO culture" in Sri Lanka. In addition to being involved in environment related
activities, the Consortium is also becoming focused on more mainstream development issues
(which many of the members are already involved in) ­ for example, 10 Consortium members
attended a recent government meeting to involve NGOs in the peace process, which has certainly
helped them sustain their organizational structures. The evolution of the National Consortia and
its district members is one of the greatest achievements under EA1P, since the Consortia members
are playing a key role in community driven development projects with and without external
funding.

Component 3: Pilot Land Management
Pilot land management component - sustainability likely: Evidence suggests that the pilot
project was a success, as it gave small payments to the farmers for their labour to undertake soil
conservation activities in their lands, without which they would have been unable to undertake
these tasks on their own. This, has enabled them to realize the benefits of soil conservation, in
terms of greater productivity and reduced requirements for chemical fertilizer and one year after
the project, they continue to maintain these structures using their own funds.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable in this project as all activities have been internalized as part of the respective
institution's functions. Even the pilot land management component has been internalized, with
the Provincial Department of Agriculture taking on the technical responsibility of advising and
guiding the farmers who participated in the pilot program. The Provincial Department of
Agriculture has plans to expand the pilot within the Central Province.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Flaws during design: Bank performance during design and appraisal was unsatisfactory. EA1P
was originally intended to finance key investments identified in the NEAP. The Bank had a
dialogue with the Government for over two years during project preparation, which focused
mainly on EA1P financing key investments in NEAP. However, during the latter stages of the
project preparation, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the project scope was limited to
institutional strengthening of environmental management institutions and investments in
community based environmental management. This intervention resulted in the project size being
reduced from the initial estimate of US$ 70 million to US$ 20 million. The project's focus
changed from an "investment" project to an "environmental policy and institutions" project. This
development should have resulted in a change in the composition of the Bank team preparing the
project, which did not occur. Preparation was rushed at this stage, with inadequate stakeholder
consultation resulting in poor ownership. The project design was over-ambitious and paid little
attention to absorptive capacity. The fact that it took over one year for GOSL to meet conditions
for negotiations (which were agreed at appraisal), is adequate testimony.

7.2 Supervision:
Success achieved through flexibility in implementation: Overall, project supervision was



                                                  - 16 -

satisfactory. The Task Team which was led from the Colombo Office benefited greatly from
having the same Task Team Leader throughout the life of the project, in contrast to the Bank
norm of 2.2 years. QAG assessments of the project in 1998 and 1999 rated supervision as "
highly satisfactory". The weak aspects of the design were addressed by being flexible and
responsive to ground realities during implementation, without compromising the achievement of
development objectives. Many project stakeholders interviewed during ICR preparation,
highlighted the flexibility, support and commitment of Bank Task Team supervising the project.
This is borne out by the QAG review of the project in 1999: "The relationship with the borrower
on virtually all levels, is close and productive. The relations with donors are good and with other
stakeholders (NGOs and private sector institutions) are exemplary."

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Considering that the original design, though flawed, was flexible enough to enable the Bank Task
Team to ensure successful implementation of the project and build GOSL ownership in the
process, the overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Realism in project size: The extent of participation of the government and its ownership for the
project could have been better. Yet, the fact that the borrower requested that the project size be
reduced from US$ 70 million to US$ 20 million, to fit the needs of the government, is an
indication that, under the circumstances, the borrower performed satisfactorily during project
preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Performance improved with ownership: The performance of the borrower is assessed as
satisfactory overall. This project had little ownership in the early stages, but strong ownership
was progressively observed during implementation, particularly during the last four years of the
project. Frequent changes in leadership at both MOE and CEA, had an adverse impact on
implementation performance. In spite of these impediments, the institutions were able to make
sustainable progress under the project. In general, the project benefited from some committed
individuals ­ particularly in the Ministry ­ who have made the project a success overall.

Systemic procurement problems of the Government affected this project as well: Procurement
procedures of GOSL is complex and time consuming, with little visible value addition. The
project faced consistent delays in procurement, often to the detriment of achieving project
outcomes. The manner in which procurements that had stagnated for months was expedited
during the last quarter prior to project closure is adequate testament that if there is commitment,
procurement processes of GOSL can be accelerated without compromising transparency.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Shortcomings of EA1P Project Management Unit: One of the most counter-productive aspects
of the GOSL implementation was the EA1P Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Ministry of
Environment. An "external" Project Coordinator and staff while being useful to expedite project
activities, did reduce ownership of the project ­ particularly with the CEA and even in the
Ministry. The "power" of the PMU in terms of resource allocation created problems ­ a common
problem since PMUs generally administer budgets that are far larger than those of most


                                                 - 17 -

departments within the same beneficiary institutions. This often stimulates the creation of parallel
structures which fragment rather than strengthen institutions. The last two years of the project
was administered by the Additional Secretary of the Ministry, rather than an "external" Project
Coordinator. This step was taken to internalize the project as part of the Ministry of
Environment, rather than be seen as an external "PMU". This helped to create the much needed
"ownership" within government for the project.

Financial management: Overall, financial management of the project was marginally satisfactory.
Financial management was ring-fenced within the PMU, and focused primarily on accounting and
recording of financial transactions. Weakness relating to financial management aspects of the
project were: (i) high turnover of accounting staff, (ii) delayed submission of audit reports, (iii)
audit reports with significant qualifications, and finally, (iv) charging ineligible expenses, which
had to be refunded to the Credit Account. Given the above issues, an independent firm was
engaged to review project accounts during mid-term, and identified the ineligible amounts that
was refunded. In addition, an accounting firm was engaged to re-classify, re-code and record all
financial transactions of the project in a computerized accounting system. However, after
installation, this system was not fully utilized by the PMU.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance during EA1P is assessed as satisfactory. The borrower,
however, needs to deal with two systemic issues that are not unique to this project. The
governments protracted procurement process and the inability to recruit and retain good financial
management staff (qualified accountants) to manage project finances. Both these issues adversely
impact the borrower performance on all projects.

8. Lessons Learned

The lessons below are drawn from supervision efforts conducted over the life of the project and
independent reviews conducted by consultants recruited by the Ministry of Environment to review
the PLMC and CEIF components, as well as discussions with stakeholders during ICR
preparation. The lessons focus on those that are specific to the project and those that are
applicable to institutional development projects in general.

Institutional Development projects should be designed based on the institution's absorptive
capacity, commitment for change and be focused on outcomes: The project showed that
absorptive capacity in the institutions being strengthened was a key constraint in the achievement
of outcomes. When dealing with weak institutions as in EA1P, the project design should be
pragmatic, focussed, and attempt to achieve a few targeted environmental outcomes that are
"owned" by the agency rather than attempt to address comprehensive institutional development in
a typical 5 year project cycle. ID projects, therefore, should not be designed to achieve
"idealistic" outcomes, but should be realistic, taking the institutions absorptive capacity and
commitment for change (political and institutional) into account. As such, a programmatic
approach is more suited for institutional development, as opposed to "stand alone" projects.

Institutional Development projects should not have external Project Management Units:
EA1P was administered by a PMU with an "external" Project Coordinator during the first four



                                                  - 18 -

years. While certain project activities were implemented expeditiously, there was a clear lack of
ownership for the project and project activities were not internalized in the institutions being
strengthened. The last two years of the project was implemented by the Ministry of Environment
with the Additional Secretary being responsible. It was apparent that the implementing
institutions developed full ownership and internalized the project, during the last two years.
Therefore, external PMUs, while being useful for efficient implementation of certain types of
projects, should not be used for implementing institutional development projects. PMUs
invariably reduce the ownership of institutional reforms envisaged under ID projects and prevent
proper internalization.

Committed and sustained leadership in institutions that are being reformed is critical: A
key ingredient for institutional performance and reforms is sustained and committed leadership.
Frequent changes in leadership at the Ministry of Environment and CEA, clearly affected project
progress and institutional reforms. While it is understood that changes in key management
positions in government is inevitable, attempts should have been made to minimize such changes
in institutions where institutional reforms are in progress.

Existing technical staff vacancies in the institutions being strengthened should be filled
prior to any technical assistance consultancy inputs: Long delays were experienced in the
recruitment of staff to technical staff positions that were identified in the Staffing Plan for the
restructured MOE and CEA. Although during appraisal, the Government agreed to take
necessary steps to expedite the recruitment process, it took over two years to fill the vacancies.
Therefore, TA inputs during this period was largely wasted. There is a strong argument for
requiring the filling of technical staff vacancies, as a condition of credit effectiveness, for
institutional development projects. This is critical in countries where recruitment to the public
service has to follow a protracted procedure. Most often in such countries, the implementing
agency has little control over the public service recruitment process.

Effective utilization of TA consultancy inputs: Delays in filling technical staff vacancies and
poorly designed consulting inputs due to lack of absorptive capacity in MOE and CEA, resulted in
the TA consultancy inputs of EA1P being only marginally effective. TA consultancy inputs
should be specific and based on the absorptive capacity of the institutions and spread over much
of the project life. For proper transfer of knowledge and skills, it would be best that the
institution assign counterpart government staff to work with each TA consultant in ID projects,
who would in turn be responsible for internalizing the outputs. International consultants should
be used where absolutely necessary, giving first preference to qualified national consultants (if
available), for more ownership, particularly with regard to politically and institutionally
controversial reforms.

ID projects in particular, need on-going dialogue with the client for effective outcomes:
Institutional development requires continuous engagement with the client, particularly with regard
to the implementation of reforms. Even after a flawed design, EA1P was able to successfully
achieve its development objectives due to the Bank Task Team being able to respond to ground
realities and respond to the clients needs in a timely manner. The Task Team Leader being
located in the Colombo Office certainly helped in continuously engaging the client. Therefore, it



                                                  - 19 -

is much more effective to manage such projects from country offices. The use of country office
staff generally ensures continuity in task leadership for the duration of the project and having the
same task leader from credit effectiveness to project closure certainly helped project progress,
particularly since there were frequent changes in leadership in the government and implementing
agencies.

Special disbursement mechanisms are needed for community driven development: CEIF
and PLMC suffered from long delays in disbursement of funds for community activities. Funding
delays adversely affected project outcomes as well as a loss in community confidence. This
resulted in some beneficiaries dropping out of the sub-projects. Invariably, the drop-outs were the
poorest of the poor in these communities. The delays were due to bureaucratic financial
disbursement procedures of the government. Since GOSL has identified community driven
development as a priority in Sri Lanka's PRSP, an assessment of its current financial disbursement
procedures are needed so that a more streamlined disbursement mechanism can be developed for
community based projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Dr. Sumith Pilapitiya
Task Team Leader
Environmental Action 1 Project
The World Bank
Colombo

Dear Dr. Pilapitiya,

        Sri Lanka - Environmental Action 1 Project - Implementation Completion Report

This has reference to your letter on the above.

Thank you very much for sharing the ICR of the above project with us. Please be informed that the Report
is acceptable to the Ministry.

While appreciating the support provided by the World Bank for implementation of EA1P, we look forward
for your continued involvement with us for the development of the environment sector in Sri Lanka.


Sincerely



W.R.M.S. Wickramasinghe
Addl. Secretary
for Secretary
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources


(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers for the project.



                                                  - 20 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
During a meeting held with several NGOs during the ICR preparation, they acknowledged that the CEIF
component of the project had resulted in strengthening small NGO's and CBO's and contributing positively
towards participatory environmental management in the country. While they acknowledged that the use of
Consultants to review and evaluate CEIF proposals resulted in reducing political interference in sub-project
selection, they were of the opinion that the same consulting team should not have been recruited for the
entire project period. The reason for this, according to these NGOs, was that the consulting team showed
tendencies of too much "ownership" of CEIF, which was counter-productive to empowering the NGOs and
CBOs.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
                 Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate




Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
                 Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
(1) MENR: Production of a regularly updated                                The 1st NEAP was issued in 1997. In 2002 it
NEAP: a) NEAP issued by September 1997;                                    was updated for the 3rd time as "Caring for
b) Evaluation of NEAP implementation by                                    the Environment (2004 - 06"
March 2001.


(2) MENR: Updated Environmental Act                                        A new Act was not passed since required
approved by December 31, 1999.                                             amendments were made to the existing
                                                                           National Environmental Act 1980, in 2000


(3) MENR: NEAP recommendations (policy                                     The Government no longer has a PIP as a
and investments) reflected in sectoral                                     document. The Government has a six year
strategies and the public investment program                               plan which was reviewed in 2003
(PIP). a) Annual review of PIP including inter
alia incorporation of NEAP concerns into PIP



(4) MENR: Placing 12 post graduate                                         35 Post Graduate Interns were hired by the
environmental interns in PAAs: To be                                       Ministry during the period 1999 - 2000, who
completed by July 31, 1997.                                                were designated as Environmental
                                                                           Associates (Master's Degree Holders) and
                                                                           Research Associates (Diploma and
                                                                           Undergraduate students)



(5) MENR: Studies leading to the                                           Thirteen Studies were completed in 1999
clarification/integration of
economic-environmental linkages in
Government Policies. Ten studies completed
by the end of the Project with a minimum of
2 per year.



(6) MENR: Completion of the restructuring of                               The Environment Division was restructured
ED and production of outputs (NEAP, State                                  during the period: 2000-2001, but the hiring
of the Environment report, etc.) (a)                                       of professional/technical staff was delayed by
recruitment of 9 professional/technical staff                              2 years;
by September 30, 1997; (b) recruitment of 6                                A State of Environment Report (SOE) was
professional/technical staff by January 31,                                prepared in 2001
1998; (c) recruitment of 2
professional/technical staff by January 31,
1999.



(7) Completion of restructuring and phased                                 Recruitment of Professional/Technical staff
recruitment of staff into already-approved as                              agreed in the SAR were completed by the
well as new positions in the CEA.                                          end 2001 in CEA
INDICATOR: (a) filling existing approved
positions (24 positions) by July 31, 1997; (b)
obtaining approval for additional 48 positions
by September 30, 1998; (c) recruiting 19




                                                        - 22 -

professional/technical staff by December 31,
1998; (d) recruiting 19 professional/technical
staff by December 31, 1999; (e) recruiting 10
professional/technical staff by December 31,
2000.


(8) CEA: Implementation of the                              The recommendations in the CEA's
recommendations of the study on staff                       Staff-Incentives Study was not approved by
incentives.                                                 the Government unless there is reforms of
                                                            salaries in the entire government sector,
                                                            therefore it was not implemented.



(9) CEA: Develop HRD Program for CEA                        The HRD program for CEA was completed in
staff and enroll the required number of                     2000 and the activities mentioned from items
trainees in license management competence.                  (a) to (c) were undertaken during the period
INDICATOR: (a) 47 Staff trained to clear                    2000-2002. With regard to item (d), since
backlog program                                             2000-- there has been a continuous increase
(b) 30% reduction in the time taken to                      in terms of visits by CEA staff, to licensed
process new --licences; (c) 30% reduction in                premises.
handling the number of outstanding
applications; (d) 10% increase per month -in
terms of the visits to licensed premises



(10) CEA: Develop HRD Program for CEA                       CEA staff have been trained in the areas of
staff and enroll the required number of                     "Codes of Practice" during the year 2000
trainees in Small industry regulation                       /2001
competence: INDICATOR: (a) 47 staff
trained in the codes of practice program; (b)
Publish Codes of Practice by December 31,
1998


(11) CEA: Upgrade EIA training Program.                     EIA training program was upgraded and is
INDICATOR: (a) Inclusion of specialized                     being done so on an on-going basis. CEA
training in scoping & TOR preparation and                   staff received EIA training in 2001 and have
evaluation in CEA/Peradeniya University                     been receiving ongoing training on a regular
training program.                                           basis.


(12) CEA: Review process of License and                     A reduction in complaints is not an indication
EIA enforcement and monitoring.                             at this stage since better enforcement has
INDICATOR: (a) 50% decline in local                         resulted in more complaints since the public
complaints to CEA                                           see the CEA responding to their complaints


(13) PLMC: 10 Watersheds over the project                   9 Watersheds were developed during the
period with a minimum of 1000 - 1500                        period 1997-2002. A total of 12,000 ha were
ha/year                                                     subject to soil conservation measures


(14) PLMC: Land Steering Committee                          The Land Steering Committee was
established; INDICATOR: (a) Conditions of                   established in 1997
Disbursement
(15) PLMC: Active Community participation:                  The Annual Survey's of Community
INDICATOR: (a) Annual Survey                                participation was not undertaken. But over
                                                            12000 households participated in the pilot
                                                            land management component and were
                                                            beneficiaries of the project



(16) PLMC: Detailed arrangements for the                    PLMC implementation was reviewed on a
implementation of the practices; INDICATOR                  monthly basis by the Provincial Steering
(a) Regular review of implementation by land                Committee during the period 1997-2002. the
and provincial steering committee                           Land Steering Committee was not functional.




                                                  - 23 -

(17) CEIF: Number of applications approved              During the period 1997-2002, the CEIF
for each NEAP category to be submitted to               Consultants approved project applications in
CEIF.                                                   NEAP categories. No projects were rejected.
                                                        Opportunities were provided for revisions of
                                                        proposals until acceptable.


(18) CEIF: number of subprojects                        During 1997 - 2003: A total of 432 projects
implemented in each NEAP Category                       were approved and 391 were completed.
                                                        Land - 138 projects; Forests/Biodiversity -
                                                        121 projects; Urban - 73 projects; Water -
                                                        65 projects; Coastal Issues - 22 projects;
                                                        Environmental health, energy - 13 projects.


(19) CEIF: Number of subprojets still                   Over 85% of the projects are functioning.
functioning in each NEAP Category one year
after completion

1End of project
Output indicator list: Source: SAR Annex 6




                                              - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate           Estimate            Appraisal
                          Component                                  US$ million        US$ million
Institutional Strengthening                                             12.50                14.98              119.51
Community Environmental Initiatives Facility                              4.70                4.25               90.28
Pilot Land Management Component                                           3.50                1.01               27.16


Total Baseline Cost                                                     20.70                20.24
                            Total Project Costs                         20.70                20.24
                    Total Financing Required                            20.70                20.24
Source: (a) Appraisal Estimates: SAR-Pages 12 & 13 (Text sections); (b) Actual/Latest Estimates: Borrower
Note: (1) Since the Borrower was unable to provide the breakdown in terms of Physical/Price Contingencies- we
have decided to take the values, that "Include" the Price/Physical contingencies. (2) The Actual/Latest estimates
were calculated to US$ using the Monthly Average of June 30--for each year: Source: World Bank's, Integrated
Controller Systems

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                 0.00              2.90              0.85              1.67              5.42
                                        (0.00)             (2.60)           (0.78)            (0.00)            (3.38)
2. Goods                                 2.31              0.57              0.23              0.00              3.11
                                        (1.44)             (0.25)           (0.13)            (0.00)            (1.82)
3. Services                              0.00              0.00              5.19              0.00              5.19
Technical Assistance:                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (5.19)            (0.00)            (5.19)
Policy support,
Implementation support,
Capacity building and
Training
4. Miscellaneous:                        0.00              0.00              3.42              0.82              4.24
Community Environmental                 (0.00)             (0.00)           (2.37)            (0.00)            (2.37)
Initiatives Facility
5. Miscellaneous:                        0.00              0.00              2.80                                2.80
Incremental Recurrent                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (2.04)            (0.00)            (2.04)
Costs/Operating Costs
   Total                                 2.31              3.47             12.49              2.49              20.76
                                        (1.44)             (2.85)           (10.51)           (0.00)            (14.80)
Figures include taxes and duties. Figures rounded to the nearest US$100,000.
NBF: Not Bank Financed
Works: Civil works and Field works (excluding CEIF); Goods: Vehicles, Material, Equipment, Office Furniture
and Field Equipment
Source: SAR-page 19, Table 3.4

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)




                                                        - 25 -

                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               3.00              0.47             0.44              3.91
                                           (0.00)             (2.55)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (2.93)
   2. Goods                                 1.63               0.91              0.51             0.00              3.05
                                           (1.16)             (0.61)            (0.34)            (0.00)           (2.11)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              5.57             0.00              5.57
   Technical Assistance:                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.31)            (0.00)           (5.31)
   Policy support,
   Implementation support,
   Capacity building and
   Training
   4. Miscellaneous:                        0.00               0.00              3.65             1.72              5.37
   Community Environmental                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.37)            (0.00)           (2.37)
   Initiatives Facility
   5. Miscellaneous:                        0.00               0.00              2.34                               2.34
   Incremental Recurrent                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.19)            (0.00)           (1.19)
   Costs/Operating Costs
        Total                               1.63               3.91             12.54             2.16             20.24
                                           (1.16)             (3.16)            (9.59)            (0.00)           (13.91)
   Figures include taxes and duties. Figures rounded to the nearest US$100,000.
   Note: The IDA Actuals/Latest estimates data and US$ exchange rates (Monthly Average of June 30 of each year)
   for the respective calculations were obtained from the World Bank's, Integrated Controller Systems. The IDA
   disbursement rate of 97.5% is not obtainable due to the exchange rate differences
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
         Category                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Civil Works, Field Works        3.38         0.33         1.69        2.93         0.54       0.44       86.7     163.6     26.0
(PLMC)
Materials, Equipment,           1.82         1.30                     2.10         0.95                  115.4     73.1
Office Furniture, Vehicles
Technical                       5.19                                  5.31         0.26                  102.3
Assistance/Studies &
Training
Community Environmental         2.37         1.05         0.82        2.37         1.27       1.72       100.0    121.0    209.8
Initiatives Facility Fund
Incremental Recurrent           2.04         0.76                     1.19         1.15                  58.3     151.3
Costs/Operating Costs
Total                           14.80        3.44                    13.90         4.17                  93.9     121.2

   Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$1.70million. Financing amounts are rounded to the nearest US$10,000.
   Source: (a) Appraisal figures: SAR-Page 18, Table 3.3 (b) Actual/Latest estimates: Borrower and Calculations.
   Note: The IDA Actuals/Latest estimates data and US$ exchange rates (Monthly Average of June 30 of each year)




                                                           - 26 -

for the respective calculations were obtained from the World Bank's, Integrated Controller Systems. The IDA
disbursement rate of 97.5% is not obtainable due to the exchange rate differences




                                                       - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic analysis was not conducted at project completion - please see text.




                                            - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation/Pre
 Appraisal                               6    SENIOR AGRICULTURAL
              1994/1995                       EXTENSION SPECIALIST (1);
                                              ENVIRONMENTAL
                                              ECONOMIST (1); NATURAL
                                              RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER
                                              ENERGY &
                                              INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                              INDUSTRIAL ECONOMIST
                                              (1); PROCUREMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1996/1997                  6    SENIOR AGRICULTURAL
                                              EXTENSION SPECIALIST
                                              (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              NATURAL RESOURCES
                                              MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              ENGINEER ENERGY
                                              &INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                              INDUSTRIAL
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision
                                              As the Project was Task
                                              Managed from the Colombo
                                              Office, Supervision was
                                              conducted on a continuous
                                              basis. The undermentioned
                                              Supervision Missions were
                                              "formal" missions conducted
                                              by the Team.
              06/30/1997                 1    SENIOR AGRICULTURAL               S               S
                                              EXTENSION SPECIALIST (1)
              12/2/1997                  6    ENVIRONMENTAL                     S               S
                                              ENGINEER (1);
                                              ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1);
                                              NATURAL RESOURCES
                                              MANAGEMENT SPEC (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT SPEC/CIVIL
                                              ENGINEER (1);
                                              DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                              (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)



                                               - 29 -

06/29/1998    6 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                ENGINEER (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1);
                NATURAL RESOURCES
                MANAGEMENT SPEC (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPEC/CIVIL
                ENGINEER (1);
                DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
12/23/1998    7 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                ENGINEER (1); SENIOR
                ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                ECONOMIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                ANALYST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                (1)
06/07/1999    8 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                ENGINEER (1); SENIOR
                ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                ECONOMIST (2);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                ANALYST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                (1)
01/05/2000    6 SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL         S    S
                ENGINEER (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                ECONOMIST (1); SENIOR
                NATURAL RESOURCE
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1);
                OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
09/26/2000    6 SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL         S    S
                ENGINEER (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                ECONOMIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); SENIOR NATURAL
                RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); PROGRAM
                ASSISTANT (1)
06/24/2001    4 SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL         S    S



                - 30 -

                                              ENGINEER (1);
                                              ENVIRONMENTAL
                                              ECONOMIST (1); AIR
                                              POLLUTION SPECIALIST (1);
                                              PROGRAM
                                              ASSISTANT/SOCIAL (1)
               11/30/2001                 2   SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL               S    S
                                              ENGINEER (1); OPERATIONS
                                              ANALYST (1)
               06/21/2002                 2   SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL               S    S
                                              ENGINEER (1); OPERATIONS
                                              ANALYST (1)
               12/29/2002                 5   SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL               S    S
                                              ENGINEER (1);
                                              ENVIRONMENTAL
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              IMPLEMENTATION/PROCUR
                                              EMENT SPECIALIST (1);
                                              FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               06/27/2003                 5   SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL               S    S
                                              ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                                              (1); PROCUREMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)

 ICR
               12/26/2003                6     SENIOR                            S    S
                                               ENVIRONMENTAL
                                               ENGINEER (1); LEAD
                                               ENVIRONMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               INSTITUTIONAL
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                               (1); OPERATIONS
                                               ANALYST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation/Pre           97.8                         208.1
  Appraisal
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    41.6                         124.4
  Supervision                           136.89                         149.27
  ICR                                     15.49                         17.34
  Total                                 291.78                         499.11




                                               - 31 -

Source: (a) 1993-1999: COSR20 Reports. (b) 2000-2004: SAP Project Detail reports




                                                  - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

   Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
   (1) National Environment Action Plan: 1998-2001
   (2) Caring for the Environment 2003-2007: A Path to Sustainable Development
   (3) Review of Integration of Environmental Issues into Government's Development Programs by
   Mrs Kumaradasa for MENR , December 2003

   Central Environmental Authority
   (4) Central Environmental Authority - Concept Note on ISOA
   (5) Annual 2004 Work Plan

   Community Environmental Initiatives Facility
   (6) CEIF Success Stories-- MENR, November 2003
   (7) Evaluation Report of Field Level Development Impacts of CEIF Project Activities, Liyanage
   and Gamage, February 2001
   (8) Report on Independent Evaluation on CEIF Project Activities, Second Evaluation, April 2003

   Pilot Land Management Component
   (9) Pilot Land Management Component, completion report, Part 1 and 2, 2003 by S.M.
   Tennakoon

   Others
   (10) Developing Environmental Capacity, a framework for donor involvement, OECD (1995) and
   Donor Support for Institutional Capacity in Environment: lessons learned, OECD (2000)
   (11) Linkages Between Economic Policies and the Environment in Sri Lanka 1998; by
   Munasinghe, Ekanayake, Fernando, Gooneratne, Kurukulasuriya, Ranawana and Siripala
   (12) Review of Environment in the Public Investment Program by S. Pilapitiya (1997)

   World Bank Documents
   (13) Mission Aide Memoirs
   (14) Environmental Capacity Building: a Review of the World Bank's Portfolio (1999) by S.
   Margulis and T. Vetleseter, Environment Department Paper No 68
   (15) Status and Evolution of Environmental Priorities in the Poverty Reduction Strategies - An
   Assessment of Fifty Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (November 2003) by Jan Bojo and Rama
   Chandra Reddy, Environment Department Paper No 93

   (16) Publications/Studies/Reports Funded under EA1P


Title of the Publication/ Report/ Study                               Names of Authors
Policy Planning Division, MENR
   1.      Policy Studies on Envtl. & Economic Linkage              Consultancy Team
   2.      Summary Report on State of the Environment 2001 Sri      Ms. Nishanthi Perera
   Lanka ( English)



                                                - 35 -

3.     Brochures on State of the Environment 2001 Sri Lanka    Research Assistants of PPD of
(English)                                                      the Ministry
4.     4. State of the Environment 2001 Sri Lanka (Tamil)      DEMA Consultants
5.     National Involuntary Resettlement Policy (Sinhala)      Consultancy Team M/ Finance
6.     National Involuntary Resettlement Policy (English)      Consultancy Team M/ Finance
7.     National Involuntary Resettlement Policy (Tamil)        Consultancy Team M/Finance
8.     Caring for the Environment 2003-2007- Path to           Mr. Leslie Wijesinghe, National
Sustainable Development (Sinhala)                              Envtl. Consultants
9.     Caring for the Environment 2003-2007- Path to           Mr. Leslie Wijesinghe, National
Sustainable Development (English)                              Envtl. Consultants
10.    Caring for the Environment 2003-2007- Path to           Mr. Leslie Wijesinghe, National
Sustainable Development (Tamil)                                Envtl. Consultants
11.    National Envtl. Policy and Strategies (Sinhala)         Mr. Rohan Pethiyagoda,
                                                               Advisor to the Ministry of
                                                               Envt. & NR
12.    National Envtl. Policy and Strategies (English)         Mr. Rohan Pethiyagoda,
                                                               Advisor to the Ministry of
                                                               Envt. & NR
13.    National Envtl. Policy and Strategies (Tamil)           Mr. Rohan Pethiyagoda,
                                                               Advisor to the Ministry of
                                                               Envt. & NR

Environment Economics & Global Affairs, MENR
1.     Initial National Communication under the UNFCCC         Ministry of Environment and
                                                               Natural Resources
2.     Institutional Design of the Clean Development           Ministry of Environment and
                                                               Natural Resources
3.     Report of the Establishment of Climate Change           Dr. Janaka Rathnasiri
Secretariat
4.     State of the Environment                                Ministry of Environment and
                                                               Natural Resources
5.     Report of the Convention Position Papers                Mr. R.T. Abeygunasekara
6.     National Report for the World Summit on Sustainable     Ministry of Environment and
development                                                    Natural Resources
7.     Organic Farming                                         Mr. Richard Thronton Smith
8.     Environmental Economics- a guide to training policy     Prof. A. Markandya, Mr. R.
makers                                                         Boyed,
                                                               Mr. A. Hunt, Ms. P. Mason,
                                                               Dr. B.M.S. Batagoda
9.     Theoretical Manual for Envtl. Valuation in Sri Lanka    Ministry of Environment and
                                                               Natural Resources
10.    A Field Manual for Environmental Valuation in Sri Lanka Ministry of Environment and
                                                               Natural Resources
11.    Report on the Applicability of Economic Instruments     Jeevika Weerahewa, L.H.P.


                                              - 36 -

Household and Agricultural Water Pollution                         Gunarathne, Nimal
                                                                   Gunawardena
12.    Report on the Applicability of Economic Instruments in      P.A. Smaratunga, C.M.M.
Controlling Soil Erosion in Up Country Sri Lanka.                  Chandrasekara
13.    Report on the Development of Institutional Framework        Dr. Sarath Ranaweera
for Establishment of Organic Product Promotion Unit.
14.    Sri Lankan Organic Standards and Ecolable                   Lanka Organic Agricultural
                                                                   Movement
15.    Air MAC awareness Posters ( Sinhala, Tamil, English)        Air Resource Management
                                                                   Centre
16.    Air MAC Leaflets ( Sinhala, Tamil, English)                 Air Resource Management
                                                                   Centre
17.    Air MAC Stickers ( Sinhala, Tamil, English)                 Air Resource Management
                                                                   Centre

Bio Diversity Division, MENR
1.     Framework for Evaluation of Human Elephant Conflict in Mr. Ranjith Bandara , Mr, K.
Sri Lanka ­ An application of Cost Benefit Analysis as a Decision Ajith & Mr. I.D. Silva
Support
2.     Orchids of Sri Lanka                                        Mr. Malik Fernando, Mr. Siril
                                                                   Wijesundara and Mr. Suranjan
                                                                   Fernando
3.     Pollination Ecology of Agricultural Crops and Secondary Mr. W.A.I.P. Karunaratne
Forest Plant species in a Selected location in the Central Province
4.     Sampling Techniques Survey Design and Analysis              Mr. Sujith Ratnayake, Ms.
Training Report                                                    Champika Kariyawasam
5.     Home Range Demography & Behavior of the Sri Lanka           Mr. Andrew Kittle, Ms Anjali
Leopard                                                            Watson
6.     Assessment of Floral Diversity Associated with rock         Mr. S.I. Rajapakse
outcrops in wet zone ­ Sri Lanka
7.     A Preliminary Report on Bio diversity of Alawala            M/S Naalin Perera
Proposed Reserve
8.     The Diversity of Fresh Water fishes and the Current
Status ­ Indikada Mukalana, Madakada Mukalana, Beraliya
Mukalana, Runakanda Forest
9.     A Preliminary Report on Bio diversity of Karawitakanda Mr. Naalin Perera, Mr. Pradeep
proposed Reserve                                                   Nalaka Ranasinghe
10.    Collection of Information on Domestic Cattle Grazing
Aspeers in Protected Wildlife Areas of Sri Lanka ­ Part 1
Wasgamuwa National Park, Willgomuwa Secretariat Division ­
Research Terminal Report
11.    Report on the National Workshop on Lichens                  Ms. Champika Kariyawasam
12.    State of the Floral Diversity Country Report Sri Lanka      Mr. Sujith Ratnayake, Ms.
                                                                   Champika Kariyawasam



                                                - 37 -

13.    Potential Profitability of Value Added Bio- diversity       Mr. D.K.N.G. Pushpakumara,
Products                                                           Mr. H.B. Kotagama, Mr. B.
                                                                   Marabe, Mr. L.H.P. Gunaratne,
                                                                   Mr. S. Wijesundara
14.    The Role of Bio diversity Secretariat in Bio diversity
Prospecting and Benefit Sharing
15.    Evaluate Magnitude of Sharing Among -Production             Mr. D.K.N.G. Pushpakumara,
Participants                                                       Mr. H.B. Kotagama, Mr. B.
                                                                   Marabe, Mr. L.H.P. Gunaratne,
                                                                   Mr. S. Wijesundara
16.    Evaluate Promotic Profitability of Value Added Bio          Mr. D.K.N.G. Pushpakumara,
Diversity Products- Case studies of Santalum album and Exacum Mr. H.B. Kotagama, Mr. B.
species.                                                           Marabe, Mr. L.H.P. Gunaratne,
                                                                   Mr. S. Wijesundara
17.    Management Plan Polhena Beach Matara
18.    Ferns of Sri Lanka                                          Dr. Betrum Fernando
19.    An Assessment on Economic Value of Bio                      Mr. D.K.N.G. Pushpakumara,
-(Pharmaceutics) Prospecting. Royalty rate & Appropriation rates Mr. H.B. Kotagama, Mr. B.
& their roles in bio   Prospecting                                 Marabe, Mr. L.H.P. Gunaratne,
                                                                   Mr. S. Wijesundara
20.    Posters on reptiles, Snakes & Amphibians

Environment Pollution Management Division, MENR
1.     1. Policy on Solid Waste Management- brochures              Ministry of Environment &
                                                                   Natural Resources
2.     National Strategy for Solid Waste Management                Ministry of Environment &
(Documents on Solid Waste Management)                              Natural Resources
3.     Status Study on Persistent Toxic Substance for Sri Lanka Dr. Mervin Wickramasinghe
                                                                   /External Consultant
4.     13 Action Plans for local authorities for the prevention of Local Authorities
the environment in the Kelani River Basin
5.     Reports on Cleaner Production Audits for industries in      Project SMED ­ (under
order to identify Cleaner Production options to be implemented     FCCISL)
with a view to prevent pollution of the Kelani River
6.     Report on the study tour to Singapore for exchange of       Study Team
information on Crisis Management on Hazardous Substances

Environment Promotion Division, MENR
1.     Soba Magazine ­ 2000 June                                   Published by the Promotion
                                                                   Division/ MENR
2.     Soba Magazine (Sinhala) Volume vii Jan ­ April 2001         Published by the Promotion
                                                                   Division/ MENR
3.     Soba Magazine (English) Vol. Vii- 2001                      Published by the Promotion
                                                                   Division/ MENR



                                               - 38 -

4.      Framework for Evaluation of Human & Elephant Conflict Mr. Ranjith Bandara
in Sri Lanka                                                    Mr. K. Ajith I.D. Silva
5.      Book on Agenda 21                                       Promotion Divison/ MENR

Natural Resources Division, MENR
1.      1. Translation of the Natural Resources of Sri Lanka to National Science Foundation in
Sinhala                                                         Sri Lanka
2.      2. National Action Programme (Report)                   Prof. Percy Silva, Dr. A.W.
                                                                Mohottala, Mr. Henry Gamage,
                                                                Ms. M.A. Kumaradasa

Central Environmental Authority
1.      Mapping of Environmentally Sensitive Areas in Sri Lanka:CEA Publication

Western Province, Uva Province, North Central, North Western,
   Sabaragamuwa
2.      Preparation of an Environmental Research Directory      CEA Publication
3.      Study on the Environmental and Health Impacts of        CEA Publication
Pesticides used in the Dry Zone of Sri Lanka
4.      Preparation of District Environmental Profiles for 15   CEA Publication
Districts in Sri Lanka ( Ampara, Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Baticaloa, Colombo, Gampaha, Kalutara, Kandy, Kegalle,
Nuwara-Eliya, Matale, Monaragala, Pollonnaruwa, Ratnapura,
Trincomalee
5.      Preparation of Land Resources Information System for    CEA Publication
Western and Southern Provinces
6.      Regionalization Programme ­ Internal document           Mr. S. Medawewa
7.      Training manuals for Local Authority Officials on Power Mr. J.G. Keerthiratne
Delegation of EPL- Internal document
8.      National Environmental Act- Review for Improvements ­ Mr. Anandalal Nanayakkara
Internal document



Ministry of Fisheries & Ocean Resources
1.      Traditional Fishing System                              Mr. A.A. Kulatunga

Ministry of Lands
1.      Process Manual for Implementation of the NIRP- English Ministry of Lands & Ministry
                                                                of Environment & Natural
                                                                Resources
2.      Guidelines for the Preparation of Resettlement Action   -do-
Plan ­ English
3.      Training Material - English                             -do-
4.      Guidelines for Participatory Resettlement Process       -do-


                                               - 39 -

5.     General Guidelines for Planning & Implementation of          -do-
Involuntary Resettlement ­ Sinhala, Tamil , English

Ministry of Agriculture
1.     Monitoring of Heavy metals and nitrate contents in           Ms. S.M. Wijesundara,
organic manure and urban waste and residual level in leafy          Regional Agricultural
vegetables (2002)                                                   Research- Station ­
                                                                    Bombuwela
2.     Sustainable improvement of land productivity in              Ms. S.M. Wijesundara,
agriculture / Sarabhoomi (2001-2002)                                Regional Agricultural
                                                                    Research- Station - Bombuwela

Southern Provincial Council
1.     Environmental Profiles for each Local Governmental           All the Development Assistant
Authorities in the Southern Province (Sinhala)                      (Environmental) of the local
                                                                    authorities & Environmental
                                                                    officers of the Divisional
                                                                    Secretaries in the Southern
                                                                    Province
2.     Environmental friendly Agricultural Practices for the pest Prof. Rohan Rajapaksha, Prof.
Management (Sinhala)                                                Gamini Senanayaka, Prof.
                                                                    Mahinda Vijerathna, Dr.
                                                                    M.P.V. Wickramasinha, Dr.
                                                                    H.C.E. Vegiriya, Dr. L.A.
                                                                    Samayawardhana, Dr. Saman
                                                                    Abeysinha
3.     Lecture Notes on Environmental Management                    Development Officers
                                                                    (Planning) & Development
                                                                    Assistant (Planning) in the
                                                                    Southern Provincial Planning
                                                                    Secretariat
4.     An Analysis on Garbage Disposal in the Southern              Provincial Planning Secretariat.
Province- 2001

North western Provincial Environmental Authority
1.     Preparation of an environmental Sustainable development Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
Programme for NWP, in line with the National Environmental.         Consultant (NWP)
Action Plan/ National Environmental. Act.
2.     Preparation of a five year plan for the Environmental        Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
Protection & the Management in the Province.                        Consultant (NWP)
3.     Preparation of a Code of Practice for the Province, in       Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
order to carry out licensing procedure efficiently and effectively. Consultant (NWP)
4.     Regulations drafted for gazetting under the Section 61 of Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
the Provincial Environmental Statue No 12 of 1990                   Consultant (NWP)



                                                - 40 -

   5.      Carry out a study to determine the strategy to establish    Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
   proper management administrative link with the centre.              Consultant (NWP)
   6.      Preparation of an Envtl. Profile for the Kurunegala         Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
   Municipal Council area as a Pilot Project                           Consultant (NWP)
   7.      Preparation of a field Guide for the following subject      Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
   areas.                                                              Consultant (NWP)
   (i) Sustainable utilization of the Mineral Resources in the NWP
   (ii) Sustainable management of brackish water prawn industry in
        Puttlam/ Mundal estuarine system and adjoining habitats.
   8.      Carry out a survey on the water quality of identified water Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
   bodies situated in environmentally sensitive locations of NWP       Consultant (NWP)
   with special reference to the pathogenic Bacterial and Heavy
   Metal contamination of water.
   9.      Preparation of a study report for the introduction of "     Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
   Zonal Plan" for clay mining in the NWP and introduction of          Consultant (NWP)
   strategy for the rehabilitation of mined/ abandoned clay pits.
   10.     Preparation of field guide for the following subject areas Prof. M.J.S. Wijerathne,
   (i) Sustainable utilization of mineral resources in the NWP         Consultant (NWP)
   (ii) Sustainable Management of brackish water prawn industry in
        Puttalum/ Mundal estuarine eco-system and adjoining
        gabitats.

   International Union for the Conservation of Nature
   1.      A Guide to bio diversity of Knuckles forest region          Mr. C.N.B. Bambaradeniya and
                                                                       Mr. S.P. Ekanayake
   2.      Trekking in the Knuckles Forest- a trekking guide to        Mr. Sarath Ekanayake and Mr.
   Alugallena, Dekinda and Nitre cave nature trails.                   Channa Bambaradeniya
   3.      Bio Diversity of Knuckles ( a poster done in collaboration Mr. Jagath Kanaheraarachchi
   with a local NGO)
   4.      Asirimath Dumbara Kanduwetiya- an electronic                IUCN
   publication ­ video on Knuckles region.
5. Evaluation Report- Innovation and Application of participatory       Mr. L.P.D. Dayananda/ IUCN
economic planning for conservation of bio-diversity and water
resources in the knuckles range of forests.




                                                    - 41 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report

                                BORROWER'S EVALUATION
                            ENVIRONMENT ACTION 1 PROJECT

 1. BACKGROUND
 Environment Action 1 Project, funded by World Bank Credit No: 14 CE, commenced in July
 1997 covering entire island as its project area. The Mission of the project was " enhancement
 and strengthening of environment management capacity of Sri Lanka". EA1P after operational
 period of six years came to an end on 31-12-2003.The Project operated under three different
 components i.e. Institutional Strengthening, Community Environmental Initiative Facility and
 Pilot Land Management Component.

 The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$ 20.76 million out of which a sum of
 US$ 14.80 million was covered by IDA credit component. Credit utilization has been recorded
 at 97.5% at the end of the Project.

 When EA1P was to commence in 1997 neither the then Ministry of Transport, Environment &
 Women Affairs (M/TEWA) nor the Central Environment Authority (CEA) was equipped to
 undertake a complex foreign funded project of this magnitude. None of them had the technical
 capabilities or the staff strength for implementation of the project. The Environment Division
 of M/TEWA had only two senior level officers at Deputy Director grades and the office was
 housed in a rented building premises separately located from the main office. The Central
 Environment Authority with a skeleton staff has been housed in another small building
 elsewhere in Colombo. At the time of commencement of EA1P, the cadre provisions for
 Environment Division had been approved however, the schemes of recruitment and selection
 procedures were yet to be finalised. Additional cadre requirement of CEA also had not been
 identified.

 M/TEWA, being the then national focal point for the subject of "environment", was
 responsible on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka for the implementation of EA1P.
 However, there were certain functions of the project to be performed by several other line
 Ministries and Departments as some areas came under the purview of such line agencies.
 During the course of the project implementation, the subject of environment has been brought
 under different Ministries often with the change of governments. However, since 2002 the
 Project has been executed by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.

 2. BORROWERS' ASSESSMENT

 2.1. Project Objectives
 The primary objective of the EAIP was to assist the Government of Sri Lanka in strengthening
 the institutional and policy framework for environment management within which IDA and
 other donors would provide assistance for improved environmental management in particular,
 the project would: (1) support the restructuring of M/TEWA's ED for better policy planning
 and coordination and the strengthening of CEA to better carry out its analytical, monitoring



                                             - 42 -

and enforcement responsibilities.(2)support ongoing efforts to integrate environmental
considerations in the overall development planning process.(3) help GOSL take immediate
remedial measures to reveres the trends of environmental degradation through pilot
programmes involving participatory approaches to environmental management.

The objectives of the EA1P was also to serve several key institutions involved in environment
management of the country in order to improve their capacity through technical support
schemes, training programmes, research facilities, staffing and procurement of equipment etc;
to a satisfactory level. PLMC and CEIF sub projects launched with participatory approach
created an island wide network with great awareness to deal with environment sensitive
development activities in the country and, therefore, environmental degradation trends have
been slowed down. Inter ministerial coordination mechanisms such as Committees on
Environmental Policies and Management (CEPOMs) established with a view to integrating
sustainable development principles into development plans concerning environment had some
impact leading to change of attitudes and approach of the bureaucracy towards implementation
of environment sensitive development programmes.          EA1P intervention in assisting the
Ministry of Environment & Natural Resources in formulating important National Policies
relating to NEAP areas was timely and it paved the way for better management of the
environment in the future. EA1P can be described as a complex project based on ambitious
objectives and plans.


2.2. Implementation
The then Ministry of Transport Environment and Women Affaires (presently Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources) was responsible for overall coordination of project
implementation while having principle responsibility for the Institutional Strengthening
component including the policy sub component in close collaboration with the Ministry of
Finance and Planning.

The then Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and Forestry and the Central Provincial council were
responsible for PLMC component.

Community Environment Initiatives Facility came under M/TEWA administration and all the
CEIF sub projects were implemented through local government agencies, non- governmental
organizations, approved societies and research organizations.


2.2.1.      Institutional Strengthening
A sum of US$ 12.5 million has been set a part for this main component of the Project.
Environment Division of the Ministry was restructured by placing it under a separate
Additional Secretary. Recruitment of staff for the additional cadre created for the Environment
Division and establishment of Policy Planning and Monitoring Division are some of the major
improvements introduced to the Ministry structure. Preparation of National Environment
Action Plan (NEAP) which was up dated as "Caring for the Environment 2003-2007 is also a
remarkable achievement under this component. Further, nineteen policy studies on different



                                           - 43 -

NEAP areas such as land and water, forest and bio-diversity, coastal and marine, urban and
industrial, energy and minerals were sponsored by the Project. The findings of these studies
facilitated certain government policy initiatives such as National Physical Planning Policy of
2002 and National Agricultural Policy 2001-2005 in the overall national development planing
process of the country. Further, many draft policies relating to environment i.e. the draft Land
Use Policy, the draft Watershed Management Policy etc; are also in the pipe line.

Restructuring and strengthening of the Central Environment Authority by expanding its' cadre,
providing with a new office building premises including all furniture and equipment can be
quoted as a major contribution under this component. Regionalization programme,
development of Environment Protection Licensing scheme and streamlining Environment
Impact Assessment procedure have been completed. Computer networking with the
computerisation of the CEA and Human Resources Master Plan, which provided for carrier
development and training of staff enhanced the capacity of the Central Environment Authority.
Establishment of Environmental Information Centres, providing CEA with new vehicles and
giving motorcycles to the Divisional Environment Officers helped improve the effectiveness of
the CEA. Number of workshops and seminars has been conducted. Several foreign study tours
and postgraduate training programmes have been sponsored for the senior staff and the
Environment Officers with a view to providing technical support and assisting in capacity
building. Recruitment of qualified technical staff for the additional cadre requirement of the
CEA under EA1P made it possible for this environment law enforcement authority to become
more effective in the coming years.

2.2.2. CEIF Component
CEIF preparatory work has been done well in advance and the Consultants assumed duties by
September 1997.This became a unique experience as these Consultants drawn from a private
sector firm were responsible for implementing the sub projects with the participation of NGOs,
local authorities and the beneficiary communities. CEIF sub projects were implemented all over
the country including North Eastern province.

Overall achievement under CEIF component can be rated as highly satisfactory. Being the first
successful community participation programme in the environment sector it became a model
for the Community Based Organizations, Non Governmental Organizations and the Govt
Agencies to gain some unique experience in implementation of projects with community
participation in Sri Lanka.

Most of the CEIF sub projects covered NEAP areas such as water, land, forest and
bio-diversity but very few of them related to the areas like energy and minerals. With regards
to the geographical representation the Central Province Western Province had a large number
of projects but North Central and Eastern provinces received very few. Therefore, there was
no balance in selecting CEIF proposals for NEAP areas and geographical areas. Further more,
in the selection process there was no sufficient scrutiny on project designs at the time of
appraising them. From the deficiencies observed at the second round projects it appears that
selection criteria is responsible to a great extent for such failures.




                                               - 44 -

Although there were many Partner Organisations (PO) tounder take sub projects they were
without experience and skills. Even at the NGO forums few Colombo based NGOs dominated
the scene as small local NGOs could not come forward due to lack of confidence without
having sufficient experience and training. This situation changed only after completion of the
CEIF programme in December 2002 when small NGOs managed to take over the leadership of
"Sansadaya", the National Forum.

Even under CEIF component SAR did not suggest any measurable indicators, therefore,
making a proper assessment of individual projects became a problem. The consultants who
were responsible for supervision and monitoring of all the CEIF projects are also partly to be
blamed for not suggesting clear-cut targets at least for the sake of monitoring physical progress
and social impacts.

Volume of work involved with monitoring went beyond the capacity of the consultants and
distanced them from close supervision as the number of projects in operation got accumulated
towards end of the CEIF programme due to various reasons.

Although the CEIF programme became a success there had been misconceptions in identifying
root courses for the problem areas at the time of designing such projects. For example tree
planting project at Thantirimale has become a failure for not being able to analyse the critical
path for sustainable development of the Project area through which poverty reduction and
other benefits to be delivered to the farmers efficiently while protecting the environment.
Scarcity of water being the main problem in the dry zone (Rajarata) large wells with water
pumps would have been the best approach. With free labour provided by the CBO, unit cost
for construction of well with water pump would have costed around sixty thousand rupees and
this could have changed the life pattern of the poor farmers while vegetation being preserved
with the planting materials provided by the project. As these settlers were very keen to do their
vegetable cultivations for the market at Dambulla the project would have helped in reducing
their poverty. Today 90 % of the planting materials supplied under the Project have
disappeared due to lack of water and as a result neither environment nor the people have been
benefited from the project.

In another CEIF sub project at Welikanda in Kegalle District an attempt has been made to
solve the water problem of the village by introducing a rainwater harvesting system. There are
58 families living in the village. Each house hold has been provided with a water storage tank
(6000 litres) with couple of outlets so that they could use water for essential purposes such as
drinking and cooking until the arrival of the next rainy season. Earlier these villagers used to
bring water from far away down the hill climbing steps with great difficulties, for their
household consumption. The most surprising thing is that even today they are doing the same
thing while having huge water tanks full at their compound. The reason is that they are
reluctant to use the rainwater for drinking and cooking purposes. This happens due to
attitudinal constrains that could have been addressed by the project planners at the designing
stage.

The spread effects of the CEIF community mobilisation are immeasurable. Vermiculture



                                             - 45 -

project in Kegalle district is a classic example where they could convert a degraded land to a
fertile one by using earthworms. This system is now being followed in several districts.
Therefore, compared to the success achieved by CEIF, 10% failiar can be justified.

The catalytic role of the CEIF creating awareness on participatory approach in implementation
of environmental projects in rural areas will influence project planners in the future.


2.2.3.      PLMC Component
PLMC component of EA1P was implemented through a Memorandum Of Understanding
between the Secretaries of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock and the Chief Secretary of the Central Province. Project Steering
Committee (PSC) was set up and the MOU was signed in July 1997.The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in Kandy assisted by Natural Resources Management Centre
(NRMC) of the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Export Agriculture and Land
Use Policy Planning Division (LUPPD) of the Ministry of Lands operated this programme in
nine micro catchments in Kandy, Matale, and Nuwara Eliya districts.

Pilot Land Management Component (PLMC) has been designed to protect ten micro
catchments areas, from soil erosion and thereby preserving the adjoining reservoirs from silting
process and improving hydrology and also to increase rural income by upgrading agricultural
output of the project areas covering approximately 12000 ha occupied by 12,500 farmer
families in the Central Province. These PLMC sub projects have been launched on
experimental basis with a view to developing a participatory model for management of
watershed areas by the beneficiaries themselves after identifying specific technologies and cost
effective maintenance methods with the help of Natural Resources Management Centre
(NRMC) of the Department of Agriculture so that such tested mechanical and vegetative
treatments could be introduced to other areas of the country.

There were number of defects in the original design. The views of the beneficiaries have not
been obtained in identifying social benefit indicators. The structure proposed for
implementation of the project had its own defects without a proper focal point or leadership.
NRMC and the Provincial Director, Agric Dept operated independently with some support
from LUPPD at the beginning. SAR had not empowered the Project Steering Committee
(PSC) adequately and as a result, for each and every trivial matter the MENR had to be
approached causing long delays and unnecessary expenditure. The PIU had to introduce a
completely new structure for implementation and make several deviations from the SAR to suit
local conditions in the process of implementation.

a)   Cattle breeding centres (animal husbandry) has not been mentioned in the SAR but more
than 250 milk cows have been distributed among selected farmers with the intention of
reducing poverty. This practical approach helped those farmers who could not afford to
continue with prevention work on land degradation without sacrificing their daily wage earned
out side the project area, immensely.
b) Farmer Centres have been created by the PIU (new centres were constructed at, Bopitiya,



                                             - 46 -

Maoya, and Bowatenna as existing buildings could be used at other sites.)
c)   New plant species such as Pan, Vetake in place of Bamboo and other varieties specified in
the SAR for stream banks have been introduced with a view to providing raw materials for
local cottage industries.
d) Leader drains were introduced with the support of NRMC for preventing land degradation
and providing some employment opportunities to the local youths.
e)   Income generating plants under SALT programme also a new concept introduced by the
PIU with the approval of PSC
f)   Disbursement system practised through "Sanasa Bank" was another modification made by
PIU in order to overcome inadvertent delays in channelling the payments through government
bodies.

It is a fact that these modifications changed the end result of the PLMC, which would have
otherwise been disastrous.

Although the performance indicators given in the SAR were not comprehensive enough to
measure the achievements under three components, certain visible changes in beneficiary social
structure will prove, beyond any doubts, that there have been some tangible benefits to the
target social groups and to the natural environment.

Further more, the three participatory models applied in different sub projects proved to be
successful in improving women's status in the rural society. Three sub projects i.e.: Bopitiya,
Barawardenaoya, and Telegamoya meant for improvement of women's leadership qualities did
well in achieving these targets. Heel Pan kandura and Bowa tanna sub projects helped develop
leadership qualities of the youths as planned. Farmers Centres at these sub projects are being
used even to-day for various organizational activities of these communities. Those women and
the youths have been very effective in introducing new techniques for soil conservation than
those farmer groups at Maoya, Yakkatuwa , Pannalaoya and Doragala who responded slowly
by being lethargic and non corporative.

Some of the poorer farmers could not afford to continue with soil conservation work in their
allotments due to long delays experienced in receiving payments from the authorities as they
had to earn their day to day living by working out side. However, all of them admitted the fact
that there had been vast improvement in their plots of land after technical and vegetative
treatments prescribed by NRMC. There is no doubt that these experiences will help in the long
run especially when replicating programmes in other watershed areas of the country.


2.3. Financial Target
Overall achievement of financial targets can be rated as highly satisfactory. The extension
granted beyond 31.12.2002 helped the Project Implementing Agencies to utilise IDA
component of the credit to the optimum level by reaching the financial targets of the Project
comfortably. Overall disbursement rate remained at 97.5 % which is a very rare achievement in
Sri Lankan context.




                                             - 47 -

3.  LESSIONS LEARNED
 Filling cadre positions on specific date should be a precondition in institutional
strengthening projects especially in the Government Sector
A complex project of this magnitude should have commenced after all preliminary and routine
procedural sanctions such as schemes of recruitment cadre provisions, draft contract
agreements formats, draft bid documents etc. have been completed.(EA1P has taken 10
months of the project time for such back ground preparations after commencement of the
project in June 1997).Staff requirement of the Environment Division could be completed only
after two years and it took two and half years to meet the additional cadre requirement of the
CEA. The borrower and the Bank have to agree on certain preconditions in order to avoid
such bureaucratic delays after commencement of the project.

 Procurement Plans, if any, must be prioritised
Procurement plan of the project had no priorities. Urgently required procurements, such as
computers and furniture should have been given due priority. (The computers & furniture for
the CEA could be acquired only at the last month of the six-year project term) Had the
procurement of the computers and furniture been completed at the very beginning of the
project, effectiveness of the CEA would have been improved greatly, during the project period.

 Project Management can be handled directly by the line authority with some financial
viability and flexibility.
Competent personnel with project handling experience can be recruited from the public
services through some scientific selection methods so that the efficiency and accountability can
be ensured through out. However, sufficient authority has to be delegated to them to ensure
financial viability and flexibility. Project Management staff should not be given any other
responsibilities of the line organization which could hamper project implementation.

 Beneficiaries should be involved from designing stage to the end
The beneficiaries under various components of the Project must be consulted and told in
advance as to how their quality of life will get improved through the implementation of the
Project. The question of income for survival of PLMC beneficiary families during soil
conservation work would have been realized easily at their designing stage.

 Need for revision of guidelines for project implementation
As existing cumbersome procedures badly affect the efficiency of the PMU & IA resulting in
long delays and hardly make any provisions for immediate recovering of the damages and
losses from responsible persons. It is therefore, necessary to revise guidelines in keeping with
the requirements of both the GOSL and the Bank and there should be provisions and
mechanisms for strong legal action and administrative measures to recover such damages, from
the responsible people even after completion of the Project. Disbursement system should be
simplified while monitoring and auditing being strengthened.

4. EVALUATION OF BANK PERFORMANCE
Overall performance of the Bank can be rated as satisfactory. Task Team Leader and the Bank



                                             - 48 -

staff have been very co-operative and accommodative in resolving implementation problems
during the project period. Their familiarity with the local conditions became an asset in
reaching consensual decisions The Review Mission carried out by the Bank helped improve the
systems for future implementation of the Project, and the extension granted beyond December
31 2002, (original date of completion) became very useful for the institutional strengthening
programme as certain major procurement activities could be completed only towards end of
2003.

However, at the designing stage beneficiary groups have not been consulted and as a result
number of deviations from SAR could be experienced. Performance Indicators had not been
identified clearly. Criteria for collection of data should have been defined. For example under
PLMC component there was no way to compare the data of the Base Line Survey 1997 after
completion of the sub projects due to lack of information. Priorities have been mixed up in the
implementation of procurement plan as there has been no such order of priority for
procurement. It appears that SAR had been hurried by the Bank without doing sufficient
feasibility studies. As a result, it was compelled to intervene half way and bring down the size
of the project from over $70 m to $20 m on ad-hoc basis which altered the direction and total
impact of the EA1P drastically.


5. EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE
EA1P came under the supervision of several Ministries during its operational period. From
time to time, PMU was headed by six Project Directors within the six year project term. These
frequent changes at the top management level badly affected implementation plan of the
Project. It has taken two years to fill the approved cadre positions of the Environment Division
of the Ministry in strengthening the same. In the case of CEA it has even taken a longer time.
There was a need for restructuring the project through system development and revision of
action plans during mid term project reviews. Ineffectiveness of the Project Management Unit
became a major factor for such managerial deficiencies .In capaciousness of the CEA also
became a bottle neck in institutional strengthening , especially in launching regionalisation
programme with delegated authority. However, the PMU tried to accelerate procurement plans
and other activities during the extension period and managed to recover lost time to some
extent. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources successfully completed certain
major policies relating to environment and managed to create public awareness on environment
which was badly lacking at the time of commencing the EA1P. Nevertheless, the delays
experienced in delivering goods by the Implementing Agencies had bad repercussions on the
total impact of the project. If not for the extension granted beyond normal term, the Project
would have been far behind the financial targets and physical development targets. The
co-ordination among line agencies who implemented environmental programmes was not
effective. The PMU was not geared to undertake such monitoring or co-ordination. The formal
progress review meetings conducted by the Policy Planning Division of the Ministry had little
impact as there was hardly any follow up action with practical solutions and corrective
measures. In monitoring and coordinating PLMC activities the PIU in Kandy functioned more
effectively by forecasting problems and suggesting corrective measures. The PMU, being the
main operational arm for the project implementation, deserved to be strengthened at the very



                                              - 49 -

out set.   Inter ministerial co-ordination done by the Ministry of Environmental & Natural
Resources through CEPOMs became very useful .This mechanism can be further improved for
effective coordination of environmental functions in dealing with other agencies coming under
different line ministries in the future.

6. CONCLUSIONS
In conclusion, the Ministry and other relevant stakeholders do admit that EA1P has made some
invaluable contributions towards advancement of environment management of Sri Lanka.

Being the first major Environment Project implemented in the country it had to address
institutional problems and contribute heavily towards strengthening key institutions responsible
for environment management. Certainly it became a feeding ground for environmentalists,
scientist, researchers, journalists, scholars and    bureaucrats while serving as a catalyst in
changing public attitudes towards management of natural environment of the country. It helped
develop several important national policies such as "environment policy" which will influence
the decision makers and ensure all future economic development plans, environment friendly.
Participatory approach introduced through CEIF and PLMC sub projects is already having its
spread effects and this public awareness is going to pay back in the long run. PLMC inherited
weak designs but implementers made them feasible to a great extent and most of the
beneficiaries were happy with the outcome in the end. Most of the CEIF sub projects operated
all over the country, except for few, became very successful. About 41 sub projects have been
dropped due to various implementation problems.

It is a fact that institutional strengthening component has been partly successful due to certain
managerial deficiencies. However, so called "hardware approach" providing buildings,
furniture, computers and other essential inputs helped immensely as they were essentials
without which no organisation can function effectively, especially in a developing country like
ours. On the other hand these assets can be put to the optimum use by any future management
increasing institutional effectiveness to the desired level. Finally, thanks to EA1P for creating
and strengthening through its CEIF component the village level Non Governmental
Organisations for environmental affairs and their national level forums such as "Sansadaya"
which will keep an eye on environment sensitive issues in the country hereafter.




                                               - 50 -

- 51 -

