Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USiE ONLY
ReportNo. 13510
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NORTH CHINA EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2091-CHA)
SEPTEMBER 7, 1994
Country Operation Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 8.70
Y 1.00  =  $0.1149
(At appraisal 12/89 $1.00 = Y 3.71 and
at completion 06/93 $1.00 = Y 5.7)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cum)  35.31 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
i hectare (h) = 2.47 acres
i hectare (h) = 15 mu
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.20 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MOF        Ministry of Finance
SSB        State Seismological Bureau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WasNington, D.C. 20433.
U.S.A
Office of Director-General                                                    September 7, 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on North China
Earthauake Reconstruction Project (Credit 2091-CHA)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on North China Earthquake Reconstruction Project"
(Credit 209 1-CHA)' prepared by the Country Operations Division and the China Resident Mission of the
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office's China and Mongolia Country Department. The borrower
prepared Part H of the Report.
The main objective of the project (which had a total IDA share of US$ 30 million) was to
accelerate normalization of economic activity in two Provinces-Shanxi and Hebei-affected by an
earthquake. It was to be achieved through the reconstruction of damaged facilities and the restoration
of normal living conditions for the affected population. The project emphasized the use of earthquake
resilient construction and the strengthening of the domestic capacity to deal with seismic risk.
Local economic activity was restored to pre-earthquake levels and has been growing since project
completion. The recovery of household living conditions and key social services, primary education and
health was successful. Physical achievements exceeded appraisal targets: the project included an
additional 131 villages not included in the original design. Although as an emergency recovery operation
the project did not emphasize institutional development, a large number of local staff were trained in
project planning, preparation, implementation, quality control and loan administration.  Another
achievement was its impact in raising earthquake-resistant technology, not only in project components but
also in construction implemented outside the project.
According to the PCR, the main factors that contributed to the success of the project were (i)
appropriate arrangements for local management, (ii) flexibility to define and modify project details during
implementation, (iii) local ownership, (iv) strategy for in-situ reconstruction avoiding resettlement, (v)
adequate resilient technologies and (vi) emphasis on construction quality control.
Disbursement arrangements that proved to be problematic early on in the implementation phase
were subsequently rectified. The project closed six months earlier than planned. The only significant
shortcoming of the project is that a comprehensive disaster preparedness plan developed by the involved
prefectures, was not implemented.
Project design was realistic. IDA's response to the emergency was efficient and rapid. Although
the local institutions involved in project implementation had no prior experience with IDA projects, their
performance was exemplary. On balance, the project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory, its
institutional development as modest, and the sustainability of project benefits as likely.
The quality of the PCR is highly satisfactory. An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution end may be used by recipients only in the perforwmnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank authorization.l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COM1PLETION REPORT
CHINA
NORTH CHINA EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2091-CHA)
CONTEN
Preface ................................................ i
Evaluation Summary ....................................... ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                       .......  1
Project Identity . .....................................  1
Background   .          ......................................    1
Project Objectives and Description   .........................    2
Project Design and Organization ...........................    2
Project Implementation   ................................    4
Project Results . ..................................... 6
Project Sustainability and Replicability  .......................    7
IDA  Performance .             ...................................    9
Borrower Performance .................................   10
Project Documentation and Data ...........................   10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...... 12
Preamble .......................................... 12
Village Reconstruction Program  (VRP) Component ...............   12
VRP Component Preparation and Implementation  ................   13
VRP Component Project Management  .......................  17
National Technical Assistance Component .....................  19
IDA  Performance ....................................  21
Borrower Performance .................................  22
Project Assessment ..........                   .........................  22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART HI: PROJECT STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ................  24
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits to China
for Emergency  Recovery  Purposes   ......                      ..        ..........   24
Table 2:  Project Timetable                 ..............                  ................   24
Table 3:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   ....                                   ......   25
Table 4:  Physical Results; Part A  - Yanbei Prefecture, Shanxi  ...                               .....   26
Table 5:  Physical Results; Part B  - Yangyuan County, Hebei   ...                                 .....   27
Table 6:  Project Costs and Financing Plan   .......                         ..         ...........   28
A.  Project Costs  ..............................   28
B.   Financining  Plan    ...........................   28
Table 7:  Status of Major Covenants  .........                           ..         .............   29
Table 8:  Use of Bank Resources                      ............                 ............... 30
A.  Staff Inputs ................................ 30
B. Missions ................................. 30



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NORTH CHINA EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2091-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the North China
Earthquake Reconstruction Project in China, for which Credit 2091-CHA in the amount
of SDR 23.4 million was approved on February 8, 1990. The Borrower was the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) which onlent the majority of the proceeds to the governments of Shanxi
and Hebei Provinces and granted the remainder to the State Seismological Bureau (SSB).
The credit was fully disbursed on March 19, 1992 and was closed on December 31, 1992.
This PCR was jointly prepared by the Country Operations Division and the
Resident Mission in China of the China and Mongolia Department, East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part
II).
This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Negotiations minutes; the President's
Report dated January 18, 1990, the Credit and the Project Agreements and amendments;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank
memoranda; and reports prepared by the Borrower in Winter 1991.






-  -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NORTH CHINA EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(CREDrr 2091-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
i.          The North China Earthquake Reconstruction Project covered by this PCR
was the first earthquake disaster recovery credit operation in China supported by the Bank
Group. The project evolved from the government's intent, supported by Shanxi and Hebei
Provinces, to accelerate reconstruction operations in the earthquake-affected areas. The
main objective of the project was to accelerate normalization of economic activity in the
affected area through the reconstruction and repair of rural housing and public buildings,
and rehabilitation of damaged economic and social facilities in a two year reconstruction
program covering about 150 worst affected villages. The project also supported a modest
program of technical assistance to strengthen the national earthquake monitoring and
interpretation system, and disaster preparedness planning in Yanbei Prefecture of Shanxi
Province.
Implementation Experience
ii.         Despite relative inexperience with large projects, implementation capacity
in the affected areas proved extraordinarily effective. Through systematic participatory
planning techniques and diligent project management by the local governments, as well as
the (approved) use of windfall savings from foreign exchange realignments, local resources
were effectively mobilized so that physical accomplishments exceeded appraisal
expectations. The project scope was extended to include 131 more villages than originally
anticipated at appraisal. Additional reconstruction was partly necessitated by new damage
caused by a second earthquake which occurred in March 1991 during implementation.
Although progress was initially slowed by inadequate cash flow, all reconstruction and
repair works, and procurement of materials were carried out satisfactorily. None of the
affected families were obliged to spend a second winter without permanent shelter.
Progress of the small technical assistance program was hindered because of difficulties in
obtaining responsive quotations for the highly specialized equipment required by the
program. No overall delay occurred and the project closed six months earlier than
planned.



Project Results
iii.        The project has made a significant contribution to the project area's
economic recovery and to rehabilitation of the affected villages' living conditions. The
appraisal targets in terms of physical scale were far exceeded (Part III, Tables 4 and 5).
National earthquake monitoring and analytical capacity, as well as emergency response
capability, has been strengthened by the technical assistance provided to the State
Seismological Bureau (SSB) (para. 6.1). Although not an explicit objective, hundreds of
local staff involved in this project were trained in project planning, preparation,
implementation, quality control and loan administration through project activities and
various locally funded training programs (para. 6.6).
Sustainability
iv.         Local economic activity was not only restored to pre-earthquake levels but
has been growing since project completion. Income generation schemes were introduced
to help families repay loans received for reconstruction. Reflows from the householder
credits are occurring early and are being reinvested by local government to reportedly good
effect in local township and village enterprises (para. 6.8).  Enterprise production
rehabilitation assisted by the project was largely successful but may not be sustainable
without new market growth for building materials. The enhanced SSB monitoring system
is functioning satisfactorily but its sustainability will depend on adequate budgetary support
for operation and maintenance. A useful 'Yanbei Prefecture Natural Disaster Emergency
Preparedness Plan' was completed by the Prefecture's task force with help from the
Provincial Seismological Bureau and IDA but remains to be internalized by the responsible
agencies.
Fmdings and Lessons Learned
v.          The project's main findings and lessons for the government as well as IDA
in preparation of similar projects are as follows:
(a)   Although the unavoidable programmatic approach adopted posed risks, these
were successfully avoided because, together with timely IDA supervision
efforts, local project management arrangements were well developed and
implementation teams were well staffed to devise en route the details and
mechanisms of the project [paras. 9.1 (Parts I and II respectively)].
(b)   The IDA credit and the funds from  local government were directly
channelled as subloans to the beneficiaries of the village reconstruction
program. Local ownership was further reinforced through participatory
planning which stimulated considerable self-help efforts in a low-cost,
largely in-situ reconstruction solution [paras. 4.2 (Parts I and II
respectively)].



- iv -
(c)   Appropriate technologies were applied for reconstruction and repair of
dwellings and public buildings, and construction quality control was given
close attention. Reconstructed buildings as well as new buildings proved
resilient to a second earthquake (para. 5.3)
(d)   Emergency projects of this type require a strong positive cash flow and
special attention is required to the design of disbursement arrangements and
training of disbursement staff (para. 5.7).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NORTH CHINA EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2091-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name         North China Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Credit No.           2091-CHA
RVP Unit             East Asia and Pacific
Country              China
Sector               Social Development
Subsector            Disaster Emergency
2.    Background
2.1         China has experienced some of the most severe recorded earthquakes in the
world. Since 1900, there have been 662 earthquakes with magnitude over 6 on the Richter
Scale, of which 106 registered over 7 or around thirty percent of the world earthquakes
over that intensity. Sixty percent of China's land is in seismic zones over vulnerability 6,
and seventy percent of metropolitan areas of over 1 million population are in seismic zones
over 7. The death toll from earthquakes in China in the twentieth century exceeds
600,000, accounting for over 50 percent of the world total. Chinese earthquake specialists
predict that, after a decade of relative calm, China is entering a period of high seismic
activity which is likely to last for 12 to 15 years.
2.2         Earthquakes rocked part of Northern China at the junction of Shanxi and
Hebei provinces and Nei Mongol Autonomous Region west of Beijing on the night of
October 18, 1989 and early the next morning. Five of the quakes registered more than 5.0
on the Richter Scale, the peak shock just after midnight registering 6.1. There were many
after-shocks in the following weeks. This earthquake was one of the worst to hit Northern
China since 1976. The affected region is an impoverished rural area (1989 per capita
income of Y 375 ($66) average in Yanbei) located on the Loess Plateau, a windswept,
eroded plain about 1,300 m above sea level. Local employment is mainly in coal mining
and agriculture (largely com and wheat-growing). Housing was mainly mud-brick (adobe)
construction and vulnerable to earthquake shock. The casualty toll in Yanbei and in
neighboring Yangyuan County of Hebei Province (20 dead and less than 200 seriously
injured) was mercifully slight due to the mild warning quakes but property damage was
severe in the more than 800 villages affected. Some 25,000 housing units-mainly
privately owned-and over 3,000 rooms in schools, clinics and community facilities were



- 2 -
destroyed, and 46 local industries as well as various infrastructure facilities (bridges,
power and telecommunications lines) were badly damaged. Many thousands more were
partly damaged. Government estimates indicated that direct losses in Yanbei alone
exceeded $100 million. Very few of the assets were insured. Indirect production losses,
mainly by industry and commerce, were estimated at about $15 million in the first year
and about 1,500 workers had been idled.
2.3         During project implementation on March 26, 1991, the affected area suffered
a second earthquake with magnitude 5.8 on the Richter Scale. Some 500 villages in
Yanbei Prefecture were impacted by the second quake, and over 500 people were hurt and
one died during the panic of escape. None of the buildings reconstructed to date were
damaged but an additional 11,000 houses in Yanbei's four project counties were badly
affected and required reconstruction.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The project aimed to (a) assist in and accelerate normalization of economic
activity in the earthquake-affected area by undertaking reconstruction operations in Yanbei
Prefecture of Shanxi Province and Yangyuan County in Hebei Province through a village
reconstruction program, replacement and reequipping of essential social and economic
infrastructure, and rehabilitation of facilities of productive rural enterprises; (b) encourage
and facilitate the use of cost effective, earthquake resilient construction standards; and (c)
support, through a modest technical assistance component, (i) the State Seismological
Bureau (SSB) to improve earthquake monitoring stations in identified areas of high seismic
risk and enhance satellite communication and computer equipment at SSB's Beijing
headquarters to receive and analyze data from fixed and mobile seismic observation
equipment, and (ii) Shanxi Province to develop a model disaster preparedness plan for
Yanbei Prefecture.
3.2         The cost of the project as estimated at negotiations, was Y 168 million
($45.3 million equivalent, 1989 prices), of which the IDA share was 66.2 percent, i.e.,
$30 million or SDR 23.4 million equivalent. Final completion cost was Y 273.6 million
($48.0 equivalent, 1992 prices) of which the IDA contribution was unchanged in SDR
terms.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1         The project was designed to support (a) a crash program  of village
reconstruction (91.7 percent of total IDA investment) and (b) institutional development to
strengthen seismic monitoring and disaster preparedness (8.3 percent of the total
investment). The content of the village program was based on planning and selection
criteria agreed during appraisal intended to extend the reach of the resources as far as
possible in this impoverished rural area using affordable, modest standards and appropriate
low cost technologies as well as self-help contributions. In-situ reconstruction was
preferred to voluntary relocation in order to make best use of existing infrastructure and
community facilities.



-3-
4.2         Two hundred eighty-one villages located in the earthquake-affected project
area were selected and covered by the emergency program. The program was carried out
on the basis of comprehensive plans prepared by each selected village. Each plan was
prepared in close consultation with the affected community based on detailed damage
inspection of affected buildings and socioeconomic information for the village concerned,
and indicated (a) in detail, the scope (including housing, public buildings, infrastructure
works and equipment), cost estimates and financing plan (including individual family
subloan arrangements) together with, in the case of'voluntary relocation plans, details of
the resettlement costs and arrangements; (b) functional responsibilities and implementation
arrangements, including materials supplies, procurement plans and subloan administration;
and (c) five types of model reconstruction and repair methods to provide affordable options
to affected households (so that repayment would not exceed 25 percent of the family's
annual income). Credits were directly targeted to the beneficiaries through loan agreements
signed between village and householder.
4.3         SSB was designated to implement the national subcomponent of the technical
assistance component and the Shanxi Provincial Seismological Bureau and its Yanbei
affiliate were asked to prepare the Yanbei Disaster Preparedness Plan. Responsibilities for
implementation and management of the village reconstruction program were assigned to
Yanbei Prefecture and Yangyuan County under supervision of the respective province and
the Ministry of Finance. In keeping with Chinese practice, project management offices
were established at each tier of government (prefecture, county and township) to manage
reconstruction activities. Offices were typically organized in four groups: planning,
design and technical supervision; funds management; procurement; and construction.
4.4         Considering the emergency nature of the project, special procurement and
disbursement arrangements were made to support swift project implementation. Under the
special procurement arrangements, the credit was provided to village beneficiaries in two
forms: (a) in kind-as basic materials (timber, steel, cement and glass) procured in bulk;
and (b) in cash-as reimbursement for expenditures on other materials and labor obtained
locally. Procurement of bulk materials for (a) above followed local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Association and disbursement (mainly retroactive) was against
documentation related to the contracts awarded. In the case of (b) above, because of the
large number of individual and public beneficiaries in each village, a consolidated village
contract (between the village and the county) based on the agreed village plans was devised
to facilitate documentation for disbursement. Disbursements against the village contract
were further simplified by a schedule of payments. The procurement arrangements for the
equipment required for the SSB component were by means of international prudent
shopping.
4.5         The disbursement arrangements included a project Special Account,
maintained in US dollars by the Ministry of Finance; and local Special Accounts,
maintained in local currency, opened at the provincial level in Shanxi and Hebei and at
county level in Yanbei Prefecture and Yangyuan County. Payments were made by the
counties from their domestic Special Accounts either as partial payments (65 percent)



- 4 -
against invoices submitted by suppliers or as credits to village and household loan accounts
for 65 percent of the value of work carried out by contractors or force account.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         Village reconstruction under this project was carried out over two years,
1990 and 1991. The 1990 program consisted of the original scope of the project covering
150 villages (80 villages in Yanbei Prefecture and 70 villages in Yangyuan County). The
villages included in the 1990 program were judged to be some of those worst hit by the
1989 earthquake. A second earthquake in 1991 increased damage in the project villages
and seriously affected others. Advantage was therefore taken of credit savings (para. 5.3)
to implement a 1991 program prepared using the same criteria thereby expanding coverage
to 131 more villages (117 in Yanbei Prefecture and 14 in Yangyuan County). During
implementation, problems with planning, cash flow and construction quality control were
met successively, but quickly resolved by the local management teams with help from
IDA. By December 1991, all families in the villages concerned had at least two permanent
earthquake-resilient rooms. A household subloan administration system was established
and an income generation program introduced to facilitate repayments.
5.2         To assure timely and cost-effective completion of the village programs,
implementation was actually managed as follows: (a) reconstruction or repair of private
dwellings was carried out by force account, that is, each household was responsible for its
own dwelling reconstruction or repair by local tradesmen under quality supervision of a
trained village inspector; (b) local competitive bidding was required for reconstruction or
repair of public buildings, infrastructure, social facilities and enterprises; (c) prefecture and
county material bureaus were responsible for bulk purchasing and distributing staple
building materials such as cement and steel to the concerned villages; (d) technical
assistance, including training for procurement and construction quality inspection, was
provided by prefecture and county design institutes with help from central or provincial
level agencies as necessary; (e) township finance bureaus administered the household
subloan and repayment arrangements; and (f) the project offices at different levels were
responsible for dealing with routine affairs.
5.3         Problems with reconstruction and repair quality were met initially, caused
by lack of rural building codes, modern construction techniques and proper quality
inspection. Yanbei Prefecture and Yangyuan County moved quickly to resolve this
problem with help from IDA and the local design institutes by organizing various training
programs for all the villages concemed. Through the training, the national earthquake
resistance code was understood and construction techniques were mastered by the villagers.
In addition, procedures for construction acceptance and a recording system were also
developed. All repaired buildings successfully withstood the second quake.
5.4         In light of the project's low cost technology objectives the IDA appraisal
mission advocated a low cost repair and reinforcement system for damaged traditional
adobe dwellings. A pilot test of the proposed thin shell reinforced concrete technology was
conducted by Taiyuan Industry University but was inconclusive in seismic resistance and



- 5 -
relative cost terms. The proposed technology was not therefore used but various kinds of
simple low-cost repair techniques which conform to the national earthquake resistance code
were developed locally and used successfully.
5.5         Enterprise Rehabilitation. Implementation of the township enterprises'
reconstruction component, as a relatively independent subcomponent of the village
program, was slower than expected due to a late start and cash flow difficulties. During
the process of implementation planning, this component changed significantly. Ten
enterprises were dropped from the 13 appraised due to their adequate self-financing
capacity, and four new enterprises were added and appraised by IDA's supervision
mission. By mid-1991, production capacities of the enterprises had been rehabilitated.
5.6         Procurement.  Although the SSB component was well designed and
organized-as might be expected of a scientific organization at the forefront of World
seismic research-its implementation was also a little slower than expected due to
difficulties in obtaining responses or reasonable quotations for the highly specialized
equipment required by the component. A total of 25 contracts were finally signed under
this component and most of the equipment had been put into operation by June 1992. No
problems were encountered in procurement for the village reconstruction program.
5.7         Disbursement. The project experience illustrates that emergency projects
of this type require a strong positive cash flow and special attention to the design of
disbursement arrangements and training of disbursement operators. Although arrangements
were established at the outset to facilitate cash flow such as retroactive financing provisions
for key materials and advance payments against signed village plan contracts, as well as
the Special Account itself, in practice some work was held up due to a lack of working
capital. This was due initially to two reasons: deficiencies in documentation, and tardy
withdrawal application transmittal and processing. When these problems were rectified
however the limited funds deposited in the Special Account proved a bottleneck and IDA
agreed to increase the amount from the standard equivalent of three months average
expenses, i.e., $4 million, to a more than adequate $8 million.
5.8         As an unexpected consequence of devaluations of the US dollar against the
SDR and local currency against $, implementation of the village reconstruction program
far exceeded the appraisal estimate in terms of the physical scale. Since December 1989,
China has devalued its local currency several times. During the same period the US dollar
also devalued significantly with respect to the SDR. Because of these realignments, the
value of the credit increased by over 40 percent in local currency terms. An extended
village reconstruction program approved by the Bank's Executive Board (on a no-objection
basis) and implemented in 1991 absorbed most of the credit savings. Implementation of
the additional work was greatly simplified due to the experience gained by the project
organization in the first year.



-6 -
6.    Project Results
6.1         National Technical Assistance Component. Through this SSB-managed
component, computers, satellite communication equipment and graphic information
processing equipment were purchased following the Bank's procurement guidelines. Funds
allocated originally to this component were $2 million, and an additional allocation of SDR
270,000 was agreed in June 1991 to support purchase of additional equipment to further
enhance the system capabilities to monitor earthquake precursor and strong motion
phenomena. Results achieved include (a) a strengthened and expanded national system of
fixed and mobile monitoring stations; (b) improved earthquake information collection,
telemetry and processing, including data exchange systems in high seismic risk junction
areas; and (c) expanded scope of seismic precursor observations at selected stations in high
risk areas.
6.2         Village Reconstruction Program. The project clearly made a significant
contribution to a sustainable economic recovery and rehabilitation of household living
conditions and key social services such as primary education and health protection in the
affected area through the village reconstruction program.
6.3         Yanbei Prefecture's village reconstruction program in 197 villages (including
8 villages fully relocated) covered, as shown in Part III, Table 4, reconstruction of 30,737
collapsed dwelling rooms and rehabilitation, repair or reinforcement of 26,117 others
(typically three rooms form one dwelling unit); reconstruction of 2,739 public facility
rooms (village classrooms, health centers, village storehouses and other public buildings)
and repair or reinforcement of about 2,460 others; reestablishment and repair of critical
village infrastructure (roads, power lines, wells, irrigation channels and minor structures,
water supply, etc.); and rehabilitation and reconstruction of 7 rural enterprises.  In
addition, an emergency preparedness plan was drawn up to guide response for possible
future major disasters in the Prefecture.
6.4         Yangyuan County's village reconstruction program covered 84 villages. The
program assisted, as shown in Part III, Table 5, reconstruction of 2400 dwelling rooms and
rehabilitation, repair or reinforcement of 25,500 others; reconstruction of 200 public
facility rooms (village classrooms, health centers, community buildings) and repair or
reinforcement of 600 others; reconstruction and repair of critical village infrastructure
(irrigation channels and water supply); building repair for one seriously damaged agro-
industrial enterprise and one commercial enterprise; and reconstruction for one county level
hospital and one township level hospital.
6.5         Under the enterprises reconstruction component of the village reconstruction
program, production in nine enterprises was restored (7 in Yanbei Prefecture and 2 in
Yangyuan County) by mid- 1991.  Among the rehabilitated enterprises in Yanbei
Prefecture, five had good financial returns, but the other two were loss-making in 1991.
The five profitable enterprises, however, produce building materials and benefitted from
the demand caused by the reconstruction program. But with completion of the project,



- 7 -
demand for building materials in the project area would likely return to a more normal
level, therefore sustainability is doubtful without some market growth.
6.6         Considerable institutional development has occurred as a result of the
project. A task force of over 900 persons at various levels in Shanxi and Hebei has been
trained in new, efficient systems for project planning, design, procurement, construction
management, financial administration and overall management. During the period of
project implementation, training in planning, financing, and construction quality control
was organized. Through these activities, 530 persons in Yanbei Prefecture and 396 people
in Yangyuan County were trained and have become important human resource for Yanbei
Prefecture and Yangyuan County. Beyond this, thousands of local farmers have learnt
simple building construction skills. In addition, under the SSB component, 37 of the
Bureau's engineers were sent abroad for training related to the purchased equipment, 14
domestic training courses were organized and 230 persons participated.
6.7         As required, a comprehensive disaster preparedness plan was developed by
Yanbei Prefecture with help from Shanxi Province and IDA. The plan could be useful for
dealing more effectively with possible future disasters in the project area but
institutionalization of the recommendations in the multiplicity of agencies concerned or its
replication in other prefectures was not implemented immediately.
6.8         Although not part of the project an important result was a system of
management of the household credit reflows. According to onlending terms and conditions
(which varied at each subloan stage between central government and end users), reflows
would be generated and held for periods of 10-12 years at county and prefecture levels in
Shanxi Province and at county level in Hebei Province. The reflow funds are being used
to finance investments in village and township enterprises. Options for management of the
reflows considered by the local governments included (a) opening a special bank account
managed by an investment company, (b) appointing a bank to manage the funds, and (c)
creating a self-managed trust fund.
7.    Project SustainabiUty and Repticabilty
7.1         Overall Economic Impact. Average total annual expenditure in Yanbei
Prefecture during the 1980s, including capital investment, was slightly over Y 300 million.
During the period of project implementation, investment through the village reconstruction
program alone was some Y 170 million. In Yangyuan County, fixed assets investment in
1989 was Y 18.1 million only, but in 1990 sharply increased to Y 50.3 million caused
partly by the reconstruction program.  These expenditures occurred at a time of
government austerity when the local economy was facing difficulties because of shortage
of investment funds.  The reconstruction program  investments certainly stimulated
economic recovery in Yanbei Prefecture and Yangyuan County. Economic growth in the
two areas in 1990 was 27.31 percent and 68.7 percent, respectively. However, because
of good weather in 1990, a record grain harvest also made a significant contribution to the
economic growth.



- 8 -
7.2        Impact on Agriculture Production.  Although the project area was
seriously affected by the 1989 earthquake, inputs to agricultural production in 1990 were
at a normal level. This guaranteed the rehabilitation of agriculture production in 1990 and,
in fact, a record grain production occurred that year due to good weather. The village
reconstruction program provided funds needed by farmers to reconstruct or repair their
collapsed or damaged rooms thus permitting normal expenditures on seeds and fertilizer
purchases, etc. By 1991, the repaired infrastructure (power, roads, water supplies) also
contributed to production which, despite a drought that year, was maintained at about 80
percent of the record 1990 harvest. Below is a table showing agricultural production
inputs in three villages in 1989-91.
Inputs (Y)
Village                           1989              1990               1991
Dongxingfang                   240,000           220,000            230,000
Dongxinzhuang                   60,000            68,000             72,000
Songjiayu                       57,000            63,000             54,000
Source: Village accounts.
7.3         Development of Local Construction Material Industry. The local building
material industry developed rapidly during the period of project implementation and
production of cement, brick, stone and lime increased. Because of relatively huge
demands for construction materials, not only existing state-owned plants were in full
operation, but also many new small township plants were established during the project
implementation period. According to information provided by Yanbei Prefecture, during
the years of 1990 and 1991, in Yangzhuang township alone, 34 brick-kilns, 20 limekilns,
5 quarries and 1 sawmill were established. However, about half of these small plants were
closed after completion of this project.
7.4         Social Impact. The project caused various social impacts in the project
area, perhaps most importantly that earthquake resistance awareness and technology were
accepted by the rural population and disseminated widely in the project area. This could
be seen from housing under construction not included in this project but using the same
technology. A second important impact was on the women's traditional role. To help
repay the subloans, more livestock production is now occurring in the project area.
Rearing pigs, sheep or poultry is typically the young women's business in local society,
but once married this activity would customarily stop. Now under the pressure of
repayment obligations, many housewives have resumed livestock rearing and are
contributing directly to the household income.



- 9 -
7.5         Although not an objective, through the project, a rural credit organization
has been created in the project area and income generation schemes introduced. These
schemes, although temporary, together with strengthening of the local primary education
facilities under the project, promise to have a useful impact on both social and economic
conditions. This is a remarkable achievement, at little direct cost to government, which
demonstrates the potential that could be unlocked in China's impoverished rural areas with
well designed technical and financial assistance. This potential continues to be developed
through judicious recycling of the credit funds (para. 6.8), further utilization of the skills
and capacity developed under the project, and by dissemination of the experience
throughout the respective provinces.
7.6         The long-term sustainability of SSB's earthquake monitoring system will
depend upon adequate budgetary funding, especially foreign funds, for operation and
maintenance. Planning for such costs in the near term was included in the project
appraisal. The incidence, frequency and magnitude of earthquake disasters in China gives
special prominence to the services rendered by SSB in preparedness and mitigation efforts.
8.   IDA Performance
8.1         The project area was stricken by the earthquake on October 18, 1989. In
response to a message from IDA's senior management, the Government of China expressed
interest in assistance for a possible emergency earthquake recovery credit. IDA's response
was efficient and rapid. The first project preparation mission visited the project area
November 9-11 and the project appraisal and negotiations were held in the field just one
month later.
8.2         As their first large project financed by international funding, it was a
learning experience for the local governments in Yanbei Prefecture and Yangyuan County.
Tme project required intensive, albeit brief, efforts in terms of IDA assistance in project
preparation and implementation through guidance in management, monitoring and
supervision, as well as responsiveness to project exigencies such as the use of savings and
the Special Account increase.
8.3         A total of five supervision missions were carried out by IDA during 1990
and 1991 using staff from the China Resident Mission and a local consultant. The last
field mission was in October 1991 and also collected information for this PCR. A good
working relationship was established between IDA staff and the project organization. The
local governments concerned were essentially satisfied with the supervision provided by
IDA, but felt that more supervision by IDA in terms of frequency and staff inputs would
have been even more beneficial. At the early stage of implementation, supervision focused
on detailed design of village reconstruction planning and disbursement and procurement
arrangements as well as familiarizing local governments with IDA's operations. Later
supervision focussed on reconstruction quality control, subloan administration and program
reformulation, as well as preparation of the earthquake emergency preparedness plan and
completion of the SSB program.



- 10 -
8.4        Information for Part I of this PCR was collected during the final field
supervision mission in October 1991. Final costs and other Part m information were
available following closure of the loan account in June 1992. Completion of the report was
delayed pending receipt of expected government contributions to Part II following the
scheduled loan closing date of December 31, 1992. The PCR was included in the China
and Mongolia Department's work program for FY94.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         Although Yanbei Prefecture, Yangyuan County and the State Seismological
Bureau had no prior experience with IDA projects, performance was exemplary throughout
the project preparation and execution; it could be summed up in following aspects:
(a)   Close attention was given by the local governments and SSB in project
planning and financing, materials procurement, preparation of village
programs, construction quality control, subloan administration and project
management.   This diligence  underpinned  the  successful project
implementation.
(b)   A  participatory planning approach was successfully applied by the
management team in development of the village reconstruction plans so that
considerable self-help contributions were mobilized and repayment of
household subloans was better assured.
(c)   The agencies concerned were well organized and adequately staffed.
(d)   The project management team  quickly  learnt lessons  from  the
implementation of the 1990 village program and the experience was used
effectively in the preparation of the 1991 village program and its
implementation.
(e)   The local governments helped the villages concerned to generate more
income through guiding them in income generation schemes and supervising
the reinvestment of reflows.
(f)   SSB successfully coordinated a national program which strengthened China's
seismic activity monitoring together with improved capacity for earthquake
prediction and emergency response reaction. Preparedness for such natural
disasters could be further improved through dissemination and wide adoption
of the Yanbei Prefecture Natural Disaster Preparedness Plan
recommendations.
10.   Project Documentation and Data
10.1        The legal credit and project agreements for this project were adequate. All
the covenants in the agreements were complied with by the Borrower and subborrowers,



- 11 -
Shanxi and Hebei Provinces respectively. To facilitate cash flow and absorb the credit
savings caused by the devaluations, the Development Credit Agreement was amended to
permit a larger initial deposit to the special account and an extended village reconstruction
program as well as disbursement reallocations. The records of compliance with the
covenants (Table 7) and the amendments are available in the project file.
10.2        The Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP) provided
a useful guide for the Bank mission's supervision during the period of project
implementation. The MOP was also translated into Chinese and closely used by the
Borrower and the local governments as guidance. Data required for the PCR preparation
was derived from the information provided by the project offices at different levels.



- 12 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Preamble
1.1         All principal implementation agencies, Shanxi's Yanbei Prefecture, Hebei's
Yangyuan County and the State Seismological Bureau drafted extensive completion reports
(available in Project Files). Background and factual information in the reports closely
matches Part I of this PCR. Following is an abridged synthesis of the main highlights of
the Borrower's reports presented in two parts relating to the Village Reconstruction
component and the national technical assistance component.
2.    Village Reconstruction Program (VRP) Component
2.1         The Project location is longitude 113.50 East and latitude 39.57 North. The
area is a loess and hilly adjoining area of the counties of Yangao, Datong, Hunyuan and
Guanglin in Shanxi Province and the county of Yangyuan in Hebei Province. The project
area is underdeveloped. Agriculture production lags behind national averages and its
industrial foundation is poor. Average annual per capita incomes among the project
counties in 1989 ranged from Y 190 to Y 435. A 5.7 Richter Scale degree earthquake
occurred at 22:57 pm of October 18, 1989 in Yanbei Prefecture. Following that, a 6.1
degree earthquake occurred at 1:01 am on 19th of October. This was the strongest
earthquake in North China since the Tangshan earthquake which occurred in 1976. The
earthquake caused widespread damage in 69 townships, affecting 808 villages in varying
degrees. Direct loss was Y 380 million. During the period of project implementation,
another earthquake at 5.8 Richter Scale degree occurred at 2:02 am on March 26, 1991,
which enlarged the earthquake-stricken areas and aggravated the disaster. Many more
rooms collapsed or were seriously damaged. The following table shows the relative
intensity of the two earthquakes:
No. OF VILLAGES IMPACED
Earthquake date                              Intensity zones
8             7             6              5
Oct. 89                       1              8            15           321
Mar. 91                        -             3             9           109
2.2        Implementation of the project was extremely important for the earthquake-
stricken area's rehabilitation.  For example, in Yanbei Prefecture total agricultural
production value in 1988 was Y 215 million (farmer's per capita income was Y 340);



- 13 -
industrial production value was Y 239 million; of which tax and profit was Y 38.05
million. Economic foundation was quite weak and ability of self-rehabilitation poor.
Local government financing situation was also difficult. The counties concerned were
receivers of subsidies from Shanxi Province. Because of the above reasons plus local
disaster relief fund limitations, the earthquake-stricken areas were facing many difficulties.
The Project was a strong guarantee of reconstruction and quieted the victims mood. The
project constructed new houses for homeless families and repaired and reinforced rooms
for other families (at least 2 permanent rooms for each family); constructed or rehabilitated
public infrastructure facilities for 281 villages, including schools, clinics and a hospital,
and other public buildings as well as irrigation and drinking water supply and power
facilities and equipments; helped nine enterprises recovered their production; and help to
formulate "Yanbei Prefecture Anti-Disaster Emergency Plan." In the meantime, the
Project also provided successful experiences of using foreign funds in earthquake
reconstruction.
3.    VRP Component Preparation and Implementation
3.1         The appraisal results basically  reflected  the actual needs for the
reconstruction of the earthquake-stricken areas, and provided a basis for the negotiations
of the credit and project agreements. Though some revisions and changes occurred later,
for example, adjustments of the village reconstruction on the new sites and enterprises'
rehabilitation as well as the change of the required new technology, project implementation
was not affected. Before the Project entered into effectiveness, work on planning and
preparation of materials needed by the project had started, therefore, the time of the
effectiveness did not affect the project's implementation. Following are some examples
of specific project experiences of Yanbei Prefecture with the principal component of the
project.
3.2          Strong leadership and overall coordination were basic pillars of the
reconstruction. From the beginning high importance was given this project by the leaders
at different levels. Four joint conferences and six county magistrate meetings were held
to study and deploy works to be done. Leadership responsibility system was carried out
from the Prefecture to County to Township to village. Divisions were clear and therefore
it is easy to justify every leader's responsibility by checking whose job was not done well
and which link had problem. This responsibility system greatly mobilized the cadres'
enthusiasm in the earthquake-stricken areas. Reconstruction was a system project, and its
operations involved more than 20 units and departments. Concrete work for each link was
arranged for different operational departments with practical task, clear responsibility and
cooperation requirement covering land acquisition, village planning, material supply and
project engineering as well as financial audit, and strongly guaranteed smooth project
implementation.
3.3         Investigation, analysis and site appraisal were the necessary premise for the
achievement of the goal of the project. The main part of the earthquake reconstruction
project was to resolve villager's housing problem and public facilities. Before a project
could be implemented the following detailed investigation and analysis had to be






- 14 -
conducted: damage degree, reconstruction methods, construction structure, economic
situation and repayment ability. These were the key to a project which could be smoothly
implemented. In order to guarantee a correct investment and bring the benefits into full
play, based on the appraisal to the earthquake intensity, we organized engineers and
technicians to conduct damage degree identification for each house located in the middle
intensity areas so as to decide to whom the credit should be given. Based on this, house
reconstruction type and credit quota were decided according to the calculation of the cost
of constructing different type of room and each family's repayment ability. During this
process, we adopted a participatory approach: explicating policy to the masses, inviting
them to participate in the decision-making, and asking them to provide advice on methods
of reconstruction. Controversies were resolved by discussions among the masses. The
method of democratic discussion and public consultation was not only appreciated by
beneficiary families, the masses and cadres concerned but also better adapted to the
scientific and sound working process required by the project financed by the World Bank.
A good project foundation was set.
3.4         A policy of self-reliance and arduous strife was the guiding principle.
Without question, the World Bank credit had an important economic pillar function for the
reconstruction for the earthquake-stricken areas. But to apply the function, the spirit of
self-reliance and arduous strife had to be established among the masses. Therefore, the
guiding slogan from the very beginning was: "having the foreign aid, relying on yourself,
overcoming the difficulties, and reconstructing your home." There is no modern
construction equipment in rural areas so that project implementation heavily relies on labor
force. During the busiest period, people worked day for agriculture production and night
for the reconstruction. Particularly in some remote villages, if water needed for the
reconstruction was not enough, people would carry water with a shoulder pole and buckets
for a distance; if materials could not be transported by vehicle, people would carry the
materials by their shoulders or using domestic animal; if labor force was not enough,
people would help each other. Within two years, the masses overcame many difficulties
and  through  hard  work,  successfully  completed  the  great  project-home
reconstruction-and achieved the expected benefits of the World Bank Project.
3.5         Strengthening management and establishing sound rules and regulations was
the key link of project implementation. To strengthen project management, a complete
system of scientific management was needed. This was the prerequisite for efficient usage
of the foreign aid. Therefore more than 10 internal management control systems and
methods were created. This ensured the project was implemented systematically and in
an orderly way. In order to deploy reasonably and make full use of the credit and
counterpart fund,  financial management systems like < <Financial Management
Implementation Measures and Accounting System> > were worked out. These systems
stipulated and explained in detail many of the financing problems, including the use of the
fund, investment, accounting subject and accounting statement, and guaranteed the
unification and systematization in project financing management. To guarantee project
quality and improve benefits, a series of quality management systems were established as
the base of the project construction and acceptance, including < <Quality Management
Tentative Measures >, < <Completion Acceptance Measures> > and < <Construction



- 15 -
Guide> >; to have a better management and supply of the materials needed by the
reconstruction, < <Material Management System> > was worked out to ensure that
materials were purchase according to the plans and were delivered reasonably. In addition,
we required project progress reports at a period of 10 days, set responsibility contract
system, and conducted inspection and comparison as well as some other methods.
Establishment of these rules and regulations played an important role for a smoothly
project implementation.
3.6         Leading the way by experiment and combining key points with works in all
areas were an effective working method. This was the first time we had a project financed
by foreign credit. We also did not have experience in earthquake reconstruction. In order
to develop the project smoothly, we adopted the effective working method: leading the
way by experiment and combining key lessons with works in all areas. By using the
method, we first explored in steps, and the experience was then summed up; if it was
good, the experience would be popularized. For example, when we were working on the
plan, we found that it was difficult because many families were affected by the earthquake
and they had various damage situations and different incomes. To resolve this problem,
we conducted planning experiment at Xicetian village, Datong County. After we summed
up the experiment by technical identification and democratic discussion, the experience was
popularized within the Prefecture, and planning was quickly detailed into each family. In
addition, during the process of the project implementation, we also summed up the
experience of cave (adobe) dwelling repair renovation at Qincheng village in Datong
County, the experience of strengthening quality management in Hunyuan County, the
experience of bidding in project and construction materials in Guanglin County, the
experience of voluntary labor in the earthquake-stricken areas by the County leaders and
cadres in Guanglin County, and so on. Through continuing experiment and summing-up,
a new way was found out which not only satisfied the requirements of foreign credit
financed project, but fitted the actual situation of the Prefecture.
3.7         Organizing all forces to support the earthquake-stricken areas was a powerful
measure for the completion of the reconstruction. During the period of the process of the
project implementation, we mobilized all sections of society to actively support the
construction in the earthquake-stricken areas. When the project cash flow was slow,
Zhuoyuan and Huairou counties were not hit by the earthquake, but on their own initiative,
the two counties lent Y 3 million to the earthquake-stricken areas.  The material
department in the Prefecture gave a large amount of credit for material purchase and the
construction department also provided an advance. July, August and September were the
busiest project implementation period in 1990. During this period, the Prefecture launched
a great public service campaign by organizing cadres, workers and vehicles to participate
in voluntary labor. 135,652 man/days were donated, 6,626 vehicle were used, and 2.04
million ton/km cargo were transported. This promoted the progress of the reconstruction.
3.8         Producing more and increasing income were the fundamental way out for
the recovery of the economy in the earthquake-stricken areas and repayment of the credit.
In order to increase farmers' repayrnent ability, on November 22, 1990, the Prefecture
government held a special working meeting on production recovery and reconstruction,



- 16 -
calling the four earthquake-stricken counties to find more new ways for production,
actively organize economic activities, fully use the local advantages so as to increase
income and generate more fund for the reconstruction as well as increase the farmers'
repayment ability in the earthquake-stricken areas. In the meantime, the meeting called
all the departments concerned for providing organized services for production in the
earthquake-stricken areas and asked to try to create job for everyone so as to let every
family improve its income. The credit repayment was a long term task. In order to
guarantee the repayment on time, every project village, with income increase, created a
special deposit account and villagers were encouraged to put their money there. In the
meantime, income from collective production would be deposited into the account for each
family jointly. Also, when the repayment plan was made, a repayment book would be set
for each family by township. This intensified the farmers' awareness of the repayment
obligation since they knew the exact amount due. This made a good preparation for the
credit repayment.
3.9         The project was originally expected to be completed by the end of December
of 1991. Through efforts, the planned completion time was basically achieved. But
following objective factor effected the implementation time to certain extent.
(a)   Due to no experience in project planning, completion of the detailed village
reconstruction plan was one month later than planned time. The main
problem for the delay was that the planning forms were not completed on
time as required by the World Bank, but this delay did not affect project
implementation.
(b)   Cash flow was slow. The major reason was due to the nature of the
project:   project implementation was scattered in many villages,
reimbursement documents, therefore, could not be gathered on time. This
delayed the reimbursement progress.  In the meantime, the domestic
disbursement procedures were complicated and the channels were not
smooth. In order not to affect project progress, we put counterpart fund in
place ahead of time and asked the construction material companies provide
purchase credit for the project.  In the meantime, we simplified the
reimbursement procedures and smoothed the disbursement channels. A
major project progress delay did not occur.
(c)   Since the credit saving generated by the change of the Chinese Yuan against
US dollar increased the project implementation scale in 1991 and the second
earthquake occurred on March 26 in the same year caused new damages, the
original planning was disturbed. New planning suggestions were made
during the project supervision conducted by the World Bank in June of the
year. The above changes delayed project implementation time.



- 17 -
4.    VRP Component Project Management
4.1         Implementation progress depended on an effective project management
system. The principal elements were as follows:
(a)   Financial Management System. The Provincial Finance Department and
Yanbei Finance Bureau worked out reconstruction project finance
management concrete implementation measures and reconstruction project
accounting system respectively, unified and standardized project's financial
activities. Each basic project implementation unit had set up project special
account and staffed accountant, guaranteed operations of project finances.
(b)   Material Management System. Bidding system for construction materials
was carried out by all project counties. This system guaranteed quantity and
quality as well as reasonable price. Construction materials, steel and
cement were supplied according to the national plan; part of timber was
supplied according to the national plan and the rest was purchased through
market; brick, tile, lime, sand, stone and equipment were purchased through
market; each project family also provided some of the construction materials
like brick, sand and stone and so on. A method of unified purchase and
delivery from county to township, and phased material supply to each family
according to project progress was adopted by some of the project counties.
Another method adopted by the other counties was that a county material
supply company was designated, and according to project progress, each
project family could directly get the materials needed, and then unified
settling accounts. The above methods guaranteed an appropriate supply of
materials and speeded up project progress.
(c)   Quality Management System.   For the NCERP, unified quality
management provisional measures, project completion acceptance measures,
unified construction drawings for different type of rooms, and construction
technical guideline were worked out. All the construction teams worked for
the Project had to have proper technical qualification. Technicians and
quality supervisors were staffed at township and villages levels. The
prefecture organized three quality inspections for the project. The project
counties conducted more.
(d)   Credit Recovery System. According to the World Bank credit onlending
terms, the following repayment guarantee measures and policies were
stimulated when the plan was made:
(i)   Family income appraisal for the family supposed to be supported by
the credit, repayment of the family would not exceed 25 percent of
its annual family income;
(ii)   Credit contract had to be notarized according to the law concerned;



- 18 -
(iii)   Credit contract had to be guaranteed by a third party who had
necessary economic ability to repay, in the meantime, family
property mortgage was required for the contract;
(iv)   Credit repayment time and its amount was guaranteed by county and
township respectively.
(v)   Income Generation. Before the repayment and during the period
of the repayment the following measures were taken by the
governments at different levels to create good conditions for the
repayment:
(vi)   Support and help the project villages and families to develop
collective and family agriculture, industry and sideline productions
to increase income and repayment ability;
(vii)   Credit repayment for the infrastructure part of water, electricity and
road would rely on service charge and collective income;
(viii)   Creating village special deposit account to help each project family
accumulate money for repayment;
(ix)   The Prefecture and the counties would use the sediment fund during
the process of the repayment to develop production so as to increase
economic guarantee ability.
4.2         Operational Training. Because reconstruction project was a new task, staff
working at different levels were not familiar to the project operations of planning, finance
and quality control. Yanbei Prefecture and the counties, for example, organized 11
planning training seminars for 340 participants; 9 financial training seminars for 59
participants; 4 engineering and technical training seminars for 130 participants. In the
meantime, the Prefecture Project Office sent a person to attend the World Bank project
financing training seminar organized by MOF. The above operational training was
important for project implementation.
4.3         Disbursement. Construction of the project was started on April 1, 1990.
At the beginning, because project implementation people at different levels were not
familiar to the disbursement operations plus domestic disbursement channels were not
smooth, the first sum of reimbursed fund was received until the end of June of 1990, not
only one month later than planned, but also the amount was not enough for project
progress. In order to speed up fund disbursement and revolving to guarantee project
implementation, by consulting with the World Bank representative, the following measures
were taken:
(a)   After the project construction started and before fund from the credit was
received, to guarantee the needs of the project, counterpart fund from the



- 19 -
local government and the people participated in the project would be used
for the disbursement  By June 1990, all the counterpart fund had been
disbursed;
(b)   Disbursement process would be speeded up from once a month to two a
month. Agreed by the Provincial Finance Department, the disbursement
could be processed directly between the Prefecture and MOF.  The
provincial link of the disbursement process was moved;
(c)   The World Bank agreed that the village agreement could be used as base of
the disbursement. Once the agreement was signed, first disbursement could
be made;
(d)   Time requirement for the disbursement was set for the transfers between the
Province, the Prefecture and the counties.
4.4         Emergency Response Plan. According to the < < Negotiation Minute > >
and several discussions with the project representative of the World Bank, as a component
of the project, < < Yanbei Prefecture Anti-Natural Disaster Emergency Plan> > (Plan,
draft) had been worked out on August 24, 1991 by Yanbei Prefecture Anti-earthquake
Office. The Plan has 5 chapters and 40 sections, including < <General Principles> >,
< <Disaster Preparation > >,  < <Emergency  Preparation > >,  < <Emergency
Response > and < <Rehabilitation> > and was produced during the project
implementation according to the requirements made by the World Bank and the actual
situation of the Prefecture. The Plan provided a scientific basis for effectively increasing
and strengthening the ability of anti-disaster and relief work in the Prefecture, and to some
extent, had a value for reference and popularization. The Plan was not only applicable to
earthquake, but to the natural disasters of drought, flood, hail, frost, plague of insects and
so on.
5.    National Technical Assistance Component
5.1         On November 14, 1989, representatives from SSB among others were
invited to brief the disaster situation to the World Bank identification mission and later, in
December, submitted to the mission a proposal of 'Project on Strong Earthquake
Observation, Quick Response to and Reduction of Major Earthquake Disasters in High
Seismic Risk Areas in China," applying for a credit to improve earthquake monitoring
conditions and enhance its abrupt response capability to large earthquakes. The proposed
project was approved in a modified form as entitled "North China Earthquake
Reconstruction Project-National Component." The main objectives of the component
were to set up information collection, analysis and processing systems in some of the
strengthened earthquake observation areas and between these areas and the SSB Center for
Analysis and Prediction in Beijing. The data to be collected and handled include
seismological data, seismic precursor data, earthquake situation, and disaster and
management information. The systems are useful both in routine monitoring of seismic
activities and for a quick reaction to large events.



- 20 -
5.2         The national component supported China's program under the International
Decade for Natural Disaster Relief for a more precise prediction of possible earthquakes
and more effective reduction of losses of life and property. Specifically, the component
succeeded in improving SSB's ability to predict earthquakes by upgrading its computer,
communications and monitoring networks; speeding up transmission of data to provincial
bureaus from observation posts and then to Beijing, by increasing reliance on digital
collection and communications equipment; and improving communication among regional
networks in the Capital Circle, and Sichuan and Yunnan Provinces. The project absorbed
a budget of SDR 1.85 million (including SDR 0.27 from savings) from IDA and $501,000
from local sources (including $436,000 for equipment and $65,000 for civil works). An
amount equivalent to $687,000 was set aside for two years' incremental operating costs.
5.3         For an effective implementation of the project, a relatively independent
project steering group was formed in SSB, responsible for planning, organization,
implementation and technical management of the component. An expert advisory group
was formed too, gathering together first class scientists of the Bureau. Special subgroups
at Bureau level were organized for each subsystem and at institutes or provincial bureaus
which undertook detailed project activities. SSB formulated 'Methods for Management
of North China Earthquake Reconstruction Project-National Component," specifying for
each implementing unit its main obligations, implementation schedule, financial
arrangements, procurement procedures, training plan, etc., which assured a smooth going-
on of the project.
5.4         Right upon signing of the Development Credit Agreement, SSB mobilized
its experts to prepare the integrated Master Plan of the project. The design included three
systems: (a) rapid response to large earthquakes, (b) mobile observations and analyses and
handling of strong and micro earthquakes, (c) linking of local telemetry networks over a
large region and upgrading seismic precursor observation stations. There are seven
subsystems attached to these systems.  Procurement of the required equipment was
commenced through China International Trust and Investment Corporation following the
World Bank's approval on June 25, 1990. Evaluation reports and 17 draft contracts were
submitted for the World Bank's review on January 23, 1991 and approved on June 26,
1991. A second batch of seven reports and draft contracts was submitted on March 23,
1991 and approved on August 12, 1991. A final batch was submitted on September 27,
1991 and approved on December 2, 1991. It was not necessary to hire the expert provided
for under the project (to be financed by UNDP) in order to prepare the technical
specifications. Although time-consuming, the performance, quality and good price of
equipment was assured through the Bank's guidelines for international prudent shopping.
5.5         A total of 108 observation stations/posts were upgraded, including 8 satellite
ground dishes, 8 computer rooms, 43 precursor observation posts, as well as other posts
for telemetry and communications. Additional equipment needed for the posts was
purchased with local funds. Twelve vehicles were outfitted for special instruments as
roving observation stations. Delivery of equipment began in May 1991 and was completed
on schedule. Installation was carried out by SSB technicians in consultation with suppliers.



- 21 -
The SSB steering group met frequently between April and December 1991 to coordinate
the project and resolve problems in time.
5.6         A total of 37 SSB engineers were sent for overseas training covering seven
different technical areas:  (a) micro earthquake observation and data processing (9
persons/12 days), (b) netting technique and data handling (4/10), (c) micro-wave ground
link equipment (3/20), (d) voice coders and modems (4/7 and 3/10), (e) short-wave radio
(4/7), (f) strong motion observation and data processing (6/14), and (g) image and graphics
equipment (4/20). Fourteen training courses were run in China in which 230 technical
personnel participated.
5.7         Real time transmission of wave form data has been realized by this project
and seismic precursor observations can be transmitted and processed rapidly. High quality,
wide dynamic range and digital wave form data can be acquired and the seismic parameters
worked out on the spot through data processing systems. The networking has resulted in
considerable increase of data and a higher detectability of earthquakes in the monitored
areas. The data can be handled off line to obtain source and medium parameters which
are useful for more profound studies. Various personnel training opportunities allowed
SSB's engineers to gain further knowledge on state-of-the-art communications, computer
and control techniques in the world. This raised SSB's technical level and will contribute
greatly in the development of earthquake information systems in China.
6.   IDA Performance
6.1         Great attention and help were provided by the World Bank during the
identification, appraisal and implementation of the project.
6.2         During the period of project implementation, the World Bank had a close
and successful cooperation with Yanbei Prefecture's project staff. The World Bank sent
5 missions to the project area to supervise the project implementation. The missions
provided strong guidance in project planning setup, credit use, quality management,
personal training and so on. In general, during the period of project implementation, the
World Bank provided warm guidance to us for working and technology through different
ways and improved smooth project progress. In the meantime, under guidance from the
World Bank project officers, we learnt a lot technical and management experiences and
mastered a set of project management procedures. In addition to field trips, the World
Bank also sent many fax and letters to inquire concrete project implementation situation,
gave timely replies to requests to help resulting project problems occurring in the process
of project implementation. All of these, not only encouraged project implementer's
enthusiasm, but won highly appreciations from the mass in the earthquake-stricken areas.
The farmers said: "living in new house, engaging to a bride, thanking for the government
and the World Bank.' By this opportunity, we would like to express our sincerely thanks
to the World Bank for the outstanding achievements and great contribution to the
reconstruction in the earthquake-stricken areas.



- 22 -
7.    Borrower Perfornance
7.1         The institutions of the project were complete in organization, the structure
was reasonable, the staff were capable. Main responsible positions were all taken by the
persons who had many years experience and strong organizing and administrative ability.
All staff were chosen according to professional ability and diligent working attitude.
During the period of project implementation, these people did an outstanding job in
promoting smooth project implementation under the conditions of tight time, new project,
heavy task and scattered project distribution. Good progress was achieved and many
successful experiences were learned by them. Their job was praised by MOF and the
provincial departments related. The project representative of the World Bank was also
satisfied and a hig'h value was given to their performance.
8.    Project Assessment
8.1         As the first World Bank-financed earthquake reconstruction project in China
it had, in general, a timely start, smooth progress, good cooperation and outstanding
effect. The project was a successful and useful experiment to improve people's production
and living conditions and to promote long term development of the local economy.
8.2         The implementation of the village reconstruction program not only greatly
improved production and living standards in the earthquake-stricken areas, but had a role
to push and promote their long term economic development. First, the project brought
development of township industries, increased productivity and economic benefits as well
as employment; second, the project has had an important impact and stimulus to housing
construction in the areas in the future, moreover housing's earthquake resilience has been
increased; third, operational management skills of the departments concerned were
improved, and adapted to the requirements for modernization management; fourth,
important experience was obtained in disaster mitigation, putting in place a better
foundation for possible earthquake reconstruction and other foreign funded construction
project in the future.
8.3         Since the project was implemented, production and living conditions in the
earthquake-stricken areas were not only recovered but improved obviously. The local
population were extricated from serious housing problems.  Before the project was
implemented, most of the people lived in adobe dwellings which were small, dark and poor
in earthquake resilience. After the project was implemented, families in the project
villages moved into new permanent houses which are large and bright. Village services
also improved, for example, the teaching environment greatly improved. Village schools
used to have many dangerous classrooms and were poorly equipped. After the project was
implemented, over 1000 classrooms were constructed and repaired, and new teaching
equipment was purchased. The situation of "rain-leaking classroom, broken table, soil
desk and muddy children" was completely changed. Infrastructure was also rehabilitated.
Part of the local infrastructure was damaged by the earthquake, creating problems for the
farmers and constraining development of production. After the project was implemented
services of power, water supply, telecommunication, transportation, and medical facilities



- 23 -
were guaranteed to some extent for the farmers in the areas. The infrastructure also
provided new dynamic power to a prosperous economy in the areas.
8.4         The earthquake-affected enterprises' production capacity was recovered and
enlarged. Due to damage caused by the earthquake, some enterprises lost normal
production ability. Through the implementation of the project nine enterprises' production
capacity was recovered, of which, seven enterprises' production and revenue increased and
a better economic benefit was achieved.
8.5         The coverage and capabilities of China's seismic activity monitoring system
have been improved which will, inter alia, allow development of better earthquake
prediction ability.



- 24 -
PART m: PROJECT STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LoANs AND IDA CREDTS To
CHINA FOR EMERGENCY RECOVERY PURPOSES
Loan/Credit          Purpose (Amount)          Year of            Status
title                                        approval
Cr 1918-CHA    Restoration and exploitation of   1988      all components
Daxing An      fire ravaged forest ($56.9                  completed
Ling Forestry    million)                                  satisfactorily
Ln 3560-CHA    Restoration and flood             1993      Progress satisfactory
Tai Hu Basin    protection works following
Flood Control   major floods in lower Yangtze
Delta ($200 million)
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                      Date Planned                 Date Actual
Identification               n/a                            11/10/89
Preparation                  n/a                             n/a
Appraisal                    n/a                            12/03/89
Negotiations                 n/a                            12/15/89
Board Approval               n/a                           02/08/90
Signing Date                 n/a                           03/02/90
Effective Date               03/31/90                      04/26/90
Closing Date                 12/31/92                      06/30/92
Completion Date              12/31/91                       12/31/91



- 25 -
Table 3: CUMuLAnvE EImATED  AND ACuAL DISBRSEMEN
($ '000)
FY           Appraisal  Estimate           Actual disbursements
by year   Cumula-
tive    By qtr.  Cumula-  As % of    As %
tive      est.       total
cumulative
1990
Q3             5,000      5,000       0         0        0%      0.0%
Q4                                7,741     7,741               24.9%
1991
Q1                               10,091    17,832               59.4%
Q2            20,000     25,000   4,902    22,734        91%    75.8%
Q3                                    0    22,734               75.8%
Q4                                1,601    24,335               81.1%
1992
Q1                                2,693    27,028               90.1%
Q2             5,000     30,000   1,805    28,833        96%    96.1%
Q3                                2,983    31,816 La           106.1%
La The actual amount disbursed in US dollar terms was greater than expected at
appraisal due to devaluation of the US dollar against the SDR during
implementation.
Source: LDS Information System.



- 26 -
Table 4: PHYSICAL RESuLTS; PART A - YANBEi PREFECrURE, SHANXI
Amount               Final
cost
Item            Unit    Appraisal       Actual  (Y million)
Villages                 No.           80          197         170 1
Private dwellings:
Repairs                room       24,000       26,117         24.9
Replacements          room        21,500       30,737         101.5
Public buildings:
Repairs               rooms         600         2,460          2.4
Replacements          rooms        1,000        3,739          18.2
Infrastructure LA:      Y mil        10.1          17.9         17.9
Water supplies:
Deep wells            No.                       117
Water tanks           No.                        57
Dist. networks        km                        339
Village roads           km                        226
Road culverts          No.                         19
Flood dikes             m                       1,289
Power lines:
HV                    km                        67.5
LV                    km                        234
Transformers          No.                        54
House connec.         km                         142
Public address         km                         525
School furnishing       set                    12,649
Clinic equipment        set                        31
Enterprises rehab.       No.           13            7           5.6
la The majority of infrastructure is located in the 8 relocated villages.
Source: MOP and Borrower PCR.



- 27 -
Table 5: PHYSICAL RESULTS; PART B - YANGYuAN COUNTY, HEBEi
Amount                    Final
cost
Item            Unit    Appraisal          Actual      (Y million)
Villages                 No.           70              84            47.7
Private dwellings:
Repairs                room       25,500         26,037             17.7
Replacements           room        2,400          3,724             12.1
Schools:
Repairs                rooms         200            593              0.5
Replacements          rooms          600            640              2.3
Furnishings             No.                       11,753             1.4
Infrastructure:         Y mil          3.1            9.7             9.7
Water supplies:
Deep wells            No.                           70              6.1
Channels               km                          130              1.2
Major canals           km                           35             2.4
Hospitals                 m2                        5,840             2.7
Enterprises rehab.       No.            2               2             1.0
Source: MOP and Borrower PCR.



- 28 -
Table 6: PRoJEcr Com AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs ($ million)
Component           Appraisal estimates (1989)       Actual costs (1992)
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign     Total
Shanxi              21.1        9.0     30.1      24.4        10.5    34.9
Hebei                5.9        2.5      8.4       7.1         3.0     10.1
National             0.5        2.0      3.0       0.5         2.5      3.0
Base cos        27.5       14.Q      41.5      32AD       16.D    48 
Contingencies        2.6        1.2      3.8       0           0          0
Total           }&1.1      15.2    4d5.                   16.D    48.0
B. F[NANCING PLAN
Source                     Appraisal estimate              Actual
Shanxi Hebei   National  Shanxi  Hebei   National
compnt compnt  compnt  compnt compnt  compnt
Central government          -       -       0.5      -        -         0.4
Shanxi Province            5.5      -       -        5.8       -         -
Hebei Province              -       1.2     -        -         1.3       -
Beneficiaries              6.1     2.0      -        6.4      2.2        -
IDA                       21.5     6.0      2.5     22.7      6.6        2.6
Total                  33.1    i22               4 2      1Q 1         0



- 29 -
Table 7: STATUS OF MAOR COVENANTS
Credit/Project
Agreement                    Covenant               Performance status
Clause No.
DCA 3.01        Execution of the project: (a) SSB to  Complied
carry out Part C of the project; (b)
Provinces to perform in accordance with
PA; (c) SDR 16.76 million to be made
available to Shanxi Province; (d) SDR
4.68 million to be made available to
Hebei province
DCA 3.02        Procurement to be governed by       Complied
provisions of DCA Schedule 3
DCA 3.03        Provision of insurance pursuant to PA    Complied
2.03
DCA 4.01        Financial covenants: (a) Borrower to  Complied
maintain accounts for Part C; (b)
Borrower to audit said accounts
DCA 4.02        (a) Borrower to maintain SOE accounts;  Complied. Audits covering
(b) Borrower to audit said accounts  Parts A, B and C were
furnished on time
PA 2.01         Execution of the project: (a) Shanxi to    Complied
carry out Part A and Hebei Part B of
the project; (b) provinces to make
available proceeds of the credit to
beneficiaries
PA 2.02         Use of proceeds to be governed by DCA  Complied
Schedule 3 (procurement)
PA 2.05         Provinces to carry out works to     Complied
standards and timetable agreed with
Association
PA 3.01         Financial covenants: (a) Provinces to  Complied
maintain accounts; (b) Provinces to audit
said accounts
Note: DCA - Development Credit Agreement     PA - Project Agreement
Source: Supervision reports.



- 30 -
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
Project cycle stage                          Month/year                       Inputs (sw)
Identification                                 11/89                                 3.0
Appraisal/negotiation /a                       12/89                                16.9
Supervision                                 04/90-10/91                             13.9
Completion                                     06/94                                 2.0
La Negotiations held in field.
B. Missions
Project cycle stage        Month/      No. of   Specialization   Field time   Performance
year       persons                     (days)       rating
Identification             11/89         3      Ec, CE, FA           5           n/a
Appraisal/negotiation La   12/89         6      CE,CE,A,UP,         18           n/a
FA,FA
Supervision 1              04/90         2      CE,FA                5            1
Supervision 2              06/90         3      CE,FA,BS             5            1
Supervision 3              10/90         3      CE,FA,BS             5            1
Supervision 4              06/91         3      CE,FA,BS             5            1
Supervision 5              10/91         3      CE,FA,BS             5            1
Note:  Specializations:
A  = Architect              Ec = Economist
BS = Building specialist    FA = Financial Analyst
CE = Civil Engineer          UP = Urban Planner
/a     Negotiations held in field.



