Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2091-CHA
Project Agreement
(North China Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SHANXI PROVINCE
and
HEBEI PROVINCE
Dated March 2, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2091-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association)
and SHANXI PROVINCE and HEBEI PROVINCE (the Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,400,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end (i) Shanxi shall carry out Part A of the Project, and (ii) 
Hebei shall carry out Part B of the Project, both with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Each of these Provinces shall make available to the Beneficiaries, in 
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association, the proceeds of the 
Credit made available to the Provinces by the Borrower under Sections 3.01 (c) and 
3.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Provinces shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and its part of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of its 
part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Each of the Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its part of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
such Province of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Each of the Provinces shall carry out the reconstruction and 
repairs under the Project in accordance with planning, design and standards, and in 
accordance with a time table agreed with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Provinces shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition in respect of the activities related to its part of the Project.
(b)
Each of the Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including the 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than
six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
Page  3
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Shanxi Province:
Finance Bureau
No. 37 Yinzie Av.
Taiyuan
Shanxi Province
People's Republic of China
For Hebei Province:
Finance Department
Fu 1
9 Kang Le Street
Shijiazhuang
Hebei Province
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of either of the 
Provinces, or by either of the Provinces on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Governor of such 
Page  4
Province or such other person or persons as the Governor shall designate in writing 
and the Governor shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the date and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SHANXI PROVINCE
HEBI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
