Page  1
June 24. 1991
Mr. Luo Qing
Director, World Bank Department
Ministry of Finance
Beijing, People's Republic of China
Re:
Cr.No. 2091-CHA
(North China Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
Use of Savings
Dear Mr. Luo:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (North China Earthquake 
Reconstruction Project) between the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the 
International Development Association
(the Association) dated March 2, 1990. We also refer to the Ministry of Finance's:  
(i) letter of December 17, 1990 requesting the Association to allow the Borrower to 
use savings of about SDR 6.5
million under the Project, for expanding the scope of the Project; and (ii) telex of 
May 15, 1991, requesting increasing the amount of the Credit allocated to equipment 
under Category (7) of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association, after due consideration, has 
agreed to your requests.  Accordingly, (i) Part A and Part B of the Project, in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, are amended as in the Attachment to this Letter; and (ii) the amount 
allocated to Category (7) will now read "1,750,000, and to Category (9) "130,000".  
All the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, as amended by this Letter, 
remain the same.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the confirmation form on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us for 
our files.  A copy of this letter is enclosed for your files, and another copy is 
being sent to each of Shanxi and Hebei Provinces for information.
Yours sincerely,
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Director
China and Mongolia Department
Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/
Authorized Representative
ATTACHMENT
Part A:
Shanxi
 
Provision of civil works, construction materials and goods for reconstruction 
works in about 180 villages in Yanbei Prefecture (including about 8 villages to be 
relocated), including, (i) reconstruction of about 26,000  collapsed  dwelling  rooms, 
and rehabilitation, repair and reinforcement of about 35,000 other rooms;  (ii) 
Page  2
reconstruction of about 1200 public facility rooms (village class rooms, health 
centers, village store houses and other public buildings) and repair and reinforcement 
of about 2,800 other rooms;  (iii) re-establishment and repair of critical village 
infrastructure of power lines and water supply; and (iv) repair of damaged buildings 
of about 17 Rural enterprises. 
Part B:  Hebei
Provision  of  civil works, construction materials and goods for reconstruction 
works in about 80 villages in Yangyuan County, including, (i) reconstruction of about 
2700 dwelling rooms, and rehabilitation, repair and reinforcement of about 27,000 
other rooms; (ii) reconstruction of about 750 public facility rooms village class 
rooms and health centers) and repair and reinforcement of about 600 other rooms; (iii) 
repair of about 45 villages' water supply and irrigation works; and (iv) repair of two 
seriously damaged industrial and commercial enterprises.
