CIRCULATING GUUY
FILE        Copy        TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No.P-1720-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES MATERIAUX DE CONSTRUCTION
FOR THE SNMC CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
November 25, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit -- Algerian Dinar (DA)
US $ 1            DA 3.92
DA   1            US $ 0.26
DA 1,000          US $ 260.00
DA 1,000,000      US $ 260,000
Fiscal Year       January 1 - December 31



INTERNATIONAL BAN-K FOP RECONSTRUCTION A'ND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT kND RECOEMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES MATERIA17 DE CONSTRUCTION
FOR THE SNMIC CEMNT EXPANSION PROJECT WITH THE GUARANTErE
OF THE DEMOCRATIC ANI POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Societe Nationale des Materiaux de Construction (SNMC), with the guarantee
of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of US$46
million to help finance the SNMC cement expansion project. The loan would have
a term of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.5 percent
per annum. Except for the portion of the loan, about $5 million, on-lent to
the state accounting and auditing enterprise, Societe Nationale de Comptabilite
(SNC), the Government of Algeria would charge SNMC a guarantee fee of 1.5 per-
cent per annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of
the loan to ShMC to 10 percent per annum. Additional financing for the project
will be provided by a supplier's credit and Algerian financial institutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Development and Prospects of
Algeria" (900-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 11,
1975. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending
1980. These are: (i) to expand and organize the production base, enabling
the economy to reach, by 1980, a stage of self-sustained growth with full
employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which implies that the
country would rely first on its own resources for development, although
international economic relations would be expanded and diversified; and (iii)
to improve income distribution, particularly among regions. These objectives,
and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementation, take into
account the country's physical and socio-economic potential; the country's
leadership is deeply committed to them.
4.        To attain the objectives defined in 1966, Algeria has adopted a
long-term strategy with four main aspects. The first is industrialization,
which is viewed as the principal means of achieving the long-term growth and
employment objectives, as the scope for expanding agriculture rapidly is
limited by physical and social constraints. Several essential functions are
assigned to industry in this perspective. Industry is expected to produce and
process natural resources, particularly the sizeable reserves of hydrocarbons
(oil and gas), for export to earn foreign exchange: to produce modern equipment
for use in all economic sectors; and to provide essential consumer goods re-
quired to raise the living standards of the population. The second aspect of
Algeria's long-term strategy is the introduction of structural institutional



changes to keep the economy in Algerian hands, as a means of imparting dvnamism
to investment and production.   The main structural reforms are the application
of central planning to the economy as a whole, the expansionT of the role of
public enterprises in industry and services, the Agrarian ".evolution involving
land and livestock redistribution to poor farmers and the introduction of co-
operative management in agriculture, decentralization in favor of local govern-
ment, and the participation of workers in the management of state enterprises.
The third element of Algeria's long-term strategy is the acceleration of train-
ing and education to meet the skilled manpower needs of the economy, improve
employment opportunities, and develon an authentic Algerian culture. The
fourth and final element of Algeria's strategy is austerity in consuTmption,
to generate national savings for investment and avoid excessive recourse to
external sources.
5.        In the seven years, 1967-73, which constituted the first phase of
implementing the above strategy, structural reforms and investment were push-
ed with vigor. The Government acquired nearlv complete control of economic
activity through the systematic nationalization of foreign assets, including
those of foreign oil companies, and through the creation and exDansion of
public enterprises. Total investment increased from 15 percent of GDP in
1966 to nearly 40 percent in 1973. public sector investment rising from 9
percent to 36 percent with more than half going to industry. In apriculture,
farms left vacant by departing foreigners in 1962 (about 2 million hectares)
have been managed by their workers under central planning and control, and
since 1971 the private sector (about 5 million hectares of cultivated land
and 20 million hectares of steppe pasture) has been progressively brought
under the provisions of the Agrarian Revolution. Education and training were
rapidly expanded and improved. The school population rose from 1.5 million
in 1966/67 to 2.9 million in 1973/74 while the education and training sys-
tems were progressively modified to improve their efficiency, their relevance
to economic needs and their accessibility to the largest number of Algerian
children and workers.
6.        Algeria's strategy also yielded some less satisfactory re'sults.
First, the real growth of output was below target (about 6 percent per year
as against a target of 9 percent) in the 1970-73 period, mainly because of
delays in implementing many projects or in brinRing their outDut tc design
capacity, and due to poor agricultural performance.    Second, the sectoral
imbalance in investment caused bottlenecks in lagging sectors such as construc-
tion, transportation, communications and housing.    Third, while the unemploy-
ment rate in non-agricultural sectors declined from 27 percent in 1966 to 12
percent in 1973, the number of emigrated workers increased to about 440,000
in 1973, when emigration was officially stopped.    In agriculture, slow output
growth was accompanied by an increase in underemplovment- about 9 percent of
the agricultural labor force was officiallv considered to be seriously under-
employed in 1973, compared with 4 percent in 1966.    Thus, in 1973. providing
jobs for unskilled labor continued to be a worrisome problem, while the shortage
of skilled and experienced nationals wTas a prinarq restraint on investment and
efficient management.   Fourth., duie to sharp differences in sectoral and regional
development, disparities in income levels and living standards have persisted;
for instance, in 1973, per capita consumption was estimated! at S13C on average



- 3 -
in rujral areas compared to $450 in urban areas. The impact of these differ-
ences is smaller than in most other developing countries at Algeria's level
of development duie to the strong income and price controls and substantial
free social services.
7.        The increase in oil prices during the last quarter of 1073 boosted
Algeria's receipts from its main export product, crude oil. Although, due
to production difficulties in the last four months of 1974, crude oil output
and exports declined in quantity by about 9 percent between 1973 and 1974,
export receipts from hydrocarbons rose from S1.6 billion in 1973 to an esti-
mated $4.3 billion in 1974. The additional $2.7 billion ($190 per caDita)
which Algeria derived from hydrocarbons in 1974 greatly improved the balance
of payments. Despite the rise in the import bill due to sharp increases in
import requirements (30 percent) and prices (35 percent), Algeria was able
to repay in advance a part of the commercial bank loans it had contracted in
1972 and 1973, and to increase its foreign exchange reserves by about $550
million during the year. There was a corresponding improvement in the domestic
financial situation, particularly in the position of the Treasury, which captures
most oil revenues. But, due to import price rises and domestic pressures, price
inflation accelerated to an annual rate exceeding 10 percent. The financial
improvement was accompanied by continued GDP growth in 1974. The decline expe-
rienced in crude oil output was more than offset by the sharply increased level
of investment, new output from industrial projects and the recovery of agricul-
tural production from the low level of 1973. GDP growth is estimated to have
been around 7 percent in real terms, and nearly 55 percent in current prices
due essentially to the oil price increase. With the liberalization of consumer
goods imports, private consumption growth was rapid (more than 10 percent),
while national savings also rose sharply.
8.        The improvement in Algeria's financial situation and prospects led
the Revolutionary Council to envisage an acceleration of the pace of economic
development and structural reform during the second Four-Year Plan (1974-77).
On the basis of the physical implementation capacity likely to be available,
the Plan estimates that total investment should reach at least DA 85 billion
($20.4 billion) in 1973 prices during the 1974-77 period, and thus be about
2.3 times larger than during the 1970-73 plan. The Plan also specifies a
higher (maximum) investment target of DA 110 billion ($26.4 billion), with
supplementarv projects to be undertaken if implementation capacity can be
raised above the estimated minimum level.. The share of industry and hydro-
carbons in total investment would decline to 44 percent in 1974-77, from 54
percent in 1970-73, while the relatlire importance of other sectors would in-
crease. Based on the expected outputs from sectoral investment programs, the
Plan fixes a minimum (11.2 percent a year) and a maximum (12.5 percent a year)
CDP growth target. The projected growth of investment and output would, ac-
cording to the Plan, create enough new jobs to improve the employment situation
substantially. The Plan estimates that the unemployment rate in non-agricul-
tural sectors would decline to around 4 percent in 1977, while there would be
a marked reduction of underemployment in agriculture.
9.        The Plan also provides for an acceleration of consumption growth
and a reduction of regional disparities. It estimates that private consumn-
tion should rise by 11.3 percent a year over 1974-77, compared to a growth
rate barely equal to that of ponulation (3.3 percent) in 1970-73. On a per
capita basis, the growth rate of private consumption would he higlher in rural



- 4 -
areas (9.6 percent a year) than in urban areas (5.5 percent a year) as a re-
sult of increases in expenditures on rural develonnent and social services.
While the Plan projects import reqluirements to rise at con-stant prices by 21
percent a year in response to the rapidly rising demand for investment and
consumption, it expects export receipts to be large enoughJ to leave a small
surplus on goods and non-factor services for the 1974-77 period as a whole.
Thus, the Plan does not anticipate any foreign exchange constraint, nor any
difficulties in domestic financing.    However, it does foresee that the re-
source balance would deteriorate after 1974 and turn into deficit by 1977.
10.       From the viewpoint of physical imnlementation capacity, the minimum
targets for investment, GDP growth and employment appear to be within reach.
The orientation of the development strategy in favor of lagging sectors and
regions is highly desirable in view of the difficulties that have appeared
with the past heavy emphasis on industry. However, the estimate of implemen-
tation capacity on which the Plan's investment target is based implies that
short-cuts will continue to be taken in the preparation of many projects
with adverse consequences for implementing and bringing them to planned out-
put. In part for this reason, but also because of the high proportion of
projects with long gestation periods in the investment progran (e.g. hydro-
carbon production, petrochemicals, and heavy metal, mechanical and electrical
industries), the delay between investment and the accrual of benefits is ex-
pected to lengthen temporarily.    Indeed, the Incremental Capital Output Ratio
(ICOR) implied by the Plan's minimum projections of investment and output
tends towards 5.0 by the end of the Plan period compared to less than 4.0 on
average in the 1967-73 period. Further, while the employment situattion will
probably improve substantially between 1973 and 1077, the investment cost
per additional job is fairly high. On the basis of Plan estimates in 1973
prices, it is about $38,000 in 1973 prices in the non-agricultural sectors, and
around $25,000 in agriculture. At the same time, and in spite of the large
planned effort further to accelerate education and training, the supply of
skilled nationals will continue to be significantly short of projected needs
at the high, and especially at the middle, levels of qualification. The Gov-
ernment is taking a number of measures to alleviate the problems created by
this situation, including the introduction of improved financial and other
procedures to bring about better operational results on the part of enter-
prises, and the extensive use of international cooperation to help in project
implementation and carry out extensive on-the-job training of nationals. It
expects that the management of assets will improve progressively after the
current Plan period when the supply of skilled nationals is expected to catch
up with needs and the beneficial effects of organizational improvements are
increasingly felt.
11.       An unusually wide margin of uncertainty surrounds the prospects for
hydrocarbon export receipts which are to finance most of Algeria's import re-
quirements. This uncertainty concerns the strength of external demand for
crude oil and natural gas, the policies that Algeria and other OPEC countries
may follow concerning the volume and prices of oil production, and the tech-
nical problems still being encountered in oil production and large-scale gas
liquefaction for export. W,hereas the 1974-77 Plan expected that during the
Plan period Algeria's crude output would rise bv 4.7 percent per year and the
purchasing power of Algerian crude on international markets would remain at
the level reached at the end of 1973, these crucial assumptions have not been



borne out by developments in 1974 and 1975. Due to technical and economic
factors, crude oil output declined to an annual rate of 45 million tons in
early 1975 compared to 50 in 1973, and the realized price of crude exports
also declined from an average $13 per barrel in early 1974 to less than $12
in 1975. Receipts from hydrocarbon exports are expected to decline to less
than $4.0 billion in 1975, compared to about $4.3 billion in 1974. While the
growth of receipts should resume in 1976 and later years, particularly with
the expected recovery of crude oil output and new exports of natural gas, such
growth is likely to be somewhat less rapid than anticipated in the 1974-77 Plan.
12.       Meanwhile, Algeria has implemented the ambitious investment strategy
of the Plan, causing a rapid increase in import requirements, and the appear-
ance of sizeable external borrowing requirements in 1975. The current account
of the balance of payments, which experienced a surplus of about $180 million
in 1974, is expected to show a deficit estimated at more than $800 million in
1975. To finance this deficit and keep reserves at the level needed for con--
fidence and liquidity, Algeria is planning to borrow up to $1.2 billion from
external sources in 1975. Depending on the level of hydrocarbon export re-
ceipts in 1976 and 1977, Algeria may have to reduce substantially the growth
of investment and private consumption from the high annual rates planned for
the 1974-77 period, so as to keep import and external borrowing requirements
within manageable limits. While Algeria's economic and financial prospects
are particularly difficult to forecast beyond 1977, since they will depend
on uncertain domestic and external factors (mainly the rate of investment,
its efficiency, and the level of hydrocarbon export receipts), it seems like-
ly that Algeria will continue to have sizeable external borrowing requirements
until the early 1980's, when the large export projects concerning gas and petro-
chemicals are expected to make a substantial contribution to export receipts.
13.       Algeria's total external debt, outstanding and disbursed, rose
from $3.0 billion at the end of 1973 to $3.3 billion at the end of 1974.
Debt service, excluding advance repayments on some commercial bank loans, is
estimated to have fallen from 11.3 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services in 1973 to 8.5 percent in 1974. Depending on the investment
strategy which Algeria may choose and the level of hydrocarbon export receipts,
the ratio would rise to a level between 15 and 19 percent of exports by 1980.
It would follow a gradually declining trend in the 1980's when the large gas
and petrochemical projects generate increasing exports. Algeria's external
borrowing needs are large in the next few years, but can be accommodated in
view of the considerably enhanced capacity to carry debt which the country
has acquired as a result of the new relationship between the prices of hydro-
carbons and other coumodities in world markets, and of the long-term prospects
for gas and petrochemical exports.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
14.       Lending to Algeria resumed in FY73 and, since then, the Bank has
lent S230 million in seven loans for transport, Dower, education, industry and
rural development. Annex II contains a summarv statement of Bank loans as of
October 31, 1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.    While the
physical execution of most projects is progressing well, effectiveness and
disbursements for some of them have been slow.   Increasing familiarity with
Bank procedures is expected to lead to a better record on this acccunt.
15.       The Bank's future lending to Algeria can only meet in a modest way
its considerable external financial requirements, as detailed above!, though
in FY 1976 it is expected substantially to exceed the relativelv low FY 1975
level of $48 million which resulted from delavs in project preparation. At
the end of 1974 the portion of Algeria's total debt outstanding and disbursed
owed to the Bank was less than one percent; this share will rise over the next
years, but is expected to remain well below 10 percent at the end cf the decade.
16.       The provision of technical assistance and institution building sup-
port in connection with lending operations remains a major objective in the
Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the Government attaches special importance.
The aim is to assist the Government to relieve bottlenecks in lagging sectors,
such as transportation, education and rural development, and to expand the
contributioic of institutions in these areas to national develovment. Bank
operations will also systematically attempt to introduce sound criteria for
project preparation, appraisal and imnlementation, and to aid Algeria in
making more economic use of its resources. Finally, future lending will also
aim at reducing sectoral imbalances in support of the socio-economic trans-
formation of Algeria which the Government is undertaking, particularly in the
rural areas. The most recent loans to Algeria approved by the Executive
Directors, in support of the regional industrial development program through
the Banque Algerienne de Developpement, and for technical assistance in rural
development, are initial steps in these directions. However, the level of
awareness and understanding of the Bank's methods of work varies considerably
among government agencies and the establishment of a program of Bank lending
operations has proved a comolex task. The dissemination of the objectives
of the Bank's activities in Algeria will continue to require a close dialogue
with the Government and sustained Bank lending to meet these objectives will
call for substantial strengthening of project prelparation in the executing
agencies.
17.       In the present fiscal year, in addition to the project proposed in
this report, two further projects, a second education project and a second
power project, are expected to be presented to the Executive Directors. For
subsequent years, further Projects in education, highways, ports, rural
development, and for on-lending to industry, are under discussion with the
Government. Preliminary consultations have also been held on the possibility
of carrving out a transport sector survey with zank support: such a survev
would help in establishing an investment program with which the Bank could be
associated in this important sector.



18.       As the present project exemplifies, nearly every project to be
presented to the Executive Directors is expected to have one or more technical
assistance components. In addition, special technical assistance activities
have included a joint Bank-IMF mission which visited Alteria in the spring
of 1974 at the request of the Government, to studv the financial planning
svstem. Acting on one of the mission's recommendations, in late 1974 the
Economic Develonment Institute held a course in Algeria dealing with various
aspects of financial planning at the central government, bankirg and project
levels. The authorities showed considerable interest in this course. At
their request, the EDI is organizing a projects course, with the Government
bearing the cost, early in 1976, and may organize further courses as well.
PART III - TIE INDUSTPIAL SECTOPR
19.       The industrial sector, including hydrocarbons, accounted for more
than half of GDP and total investment in Algeria in 1974. The bulk of indus-
trial activity takes place in the hydrocarbon sector, followed by manufactur-
ing and construction. In manufacturing, food processing, textiles and leather,
and chemicals are of importance. The sector is controlled by the state through
a network of state enterprises which together own nearly all industrial assets.
The private sector is largely limited to textiles, leather and small-scale
construction.
20.       The creation of an integrated and diversified industrial sector
based on the utilization of available natural resources is seen by Algeria as
the key to the country's development effort. Hence the emphasis of industrial
policy, as formulated in multiannual plans, has been on the establishment of
basic industries (hydrocarbons, steel, plastic, fertilizers), and investments
of high priority in the processing (metal, electrical products, tractors,
construction materials) and light consumer goods industries. In addition,
policies under the 1974-77 Plan lay stress on the development of small and
medium-size industries at the regional level, making for a more rational
utilization of local human and natural resources. In implementing these
policies, the main objective has been a rapid physical build-up of an indus-
trial production structure. Criteria of returns on investment, efficiency
in production and pricing policy have played a secondary role. Notwithstand-
ing a certain measure of waste and inefficiencies, as well as imbalances in
the productive capacity of various industries due to this approach, Algeria's
industrial development policy has radically changed the structure of the
economy.
21.       All major industrial sub-sectors are controlled by state enterprises
combining production and distribution functions and generally enjoying a mono-
poly on foreign trade. These enterprises operate under the guidance and super-
vision of the Ministry of Industry and Energy. The Ministry defines general
policy guidelines for the enterprises and sees to their implementation; it
approves organizational changes, makes appointments to senior positions, deter-
mines annual and multiannual investment programs before their transmittal to



- 8-
the State Secretariat for Planning - the central planning authority - wlhere
investment decisions are centralized, and determines the allocation of profits
in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. Financial control is exercised
by the Ministry of Finance and the banking system. State enterprises lack
financial autonomy; under the concept that they are an instrument of the state's
economic policy and as such are financed by the state and provide finance to
the state, surplus cash generated by the enterprises is turned over to the
Treasury, or placed in Government bonds. Hence they are fully dependent on
credit to finance their investments and current operations. Investment
financing is provided by the Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD) and
three state-owned primary (i.e. commercial) banks for short- and medium-term
credit. The primary banks also check the actual financial performance of
enterprises against their quarterly or annual operating budgets. BAD and the
Treasury intervene if an enterprise shows losses or chronic liquidity problems.
The Construction Materials Industry
22.       The construction materials industry is one of the priority sectors
in Algeria. Its accelerated development is urgently needed to close the
existing and widening gap between the supply of and demand for construction
materials. Coupled with the rapid growth of investment and population, housing,
schools, and other social and industrial buildings are in acute shortage.
Insufficient local production of construction materials and the inadequacy
of the distribution network have been, so far, among the main constraints to
construction, Algeria being rich in all basic raw materials needed.
23.       The sector is presently dominated by two large State enterprises,
Societe Nationale des Materiaux de Construction (SNMC) and Societe Nationale
de Constructions Metalliques (SNMetal). Though they will carry the bulk of
the construction materials investment program, the Plan also gives an important
role in the sector to smaller public enterprises to be set up by local adminis-
trations (Wilayate) under the recently launched regional industrial develop-
ment program (RIDP) partly financed under a recent Bank loan (see para 27).
This program is intended to encourage the industrialization of the least
advanced provinces, the creation of industrial jobs away from the three major
industrial centers, and the more rational utilization of available human and
natural resources to meet local needs. Regional projects will be decentralized
and scattered throughout the country, and will generally be of moderate size,
relatively labor intensive, and technologically uncomplicated. They promise
to be of high economic value and to supplement significantly the Government's
efforts towards agriculture-based rural development.
24.       SNMC was established in December 1968.   It is a composite of 51
formerly privately-owned production units and their distribution networks which
were nationalized between 1968 and 1972.   There are no outstanding disputes
arising from the nationalization. SNNC's role is to promote the development
of the domestic construction materials industrv and to manufacture, import,
and distribute a wide range of building materials, e.g., cement, quicklime,
bricks and tiles, manufactured products of either concrete or asbestos cement,
ceramics, sanitary ware, aggregates, and sand/cement mixtures. SNMC currently
operates 70 production units, a fleet of trucks, a construction company, and



a nationwide distribution system with 22 agencies and 87 depots.    The com,pany
controls 65 percent of the building materials industry.     In particular, it
dominates the markets for cement (100 percent), ready-mixed concrete (100;
percent), bricks (80 percent), tiles (75 percent), and plaster (55 percent).
Since its creation, SNMC has invested more than US$400 million in new pro-
duction facilities, and plans to invest a further US$2.3 billion in the
cement sector between now and 1981.
25.       Algeria's strategy is to attain self-sufficiency in construction
materials, including cement production, by 1980.    New investments by SIMC,
under the 1974-77 Plan, are expected to be seven times as great as the DA 1
billion invested in construction materials projects under the 1970-73 Plan.
Although 70 percent of SNMC's planned investments were made during the 1970-73
Plan, this resulted in onlv 55 percent of the targeted production increase.
Some reasons for this slipvage of investment plans are:    poor project prepara-
tion and supervision by inexperienced staff, leading to underestimationi of
costs; insufficient financial planning, and administrative delays in o¾taini-c
approval; and unrealistic implementation schedules, resulting in inadequate
coordination with domestic and foreign suppliers.
26.       Historically, cement consumption has been limited by the lack of
domestic production, by increases in the cost of imported cement, and bv Port
handling constraints. Domestic production rose by 60 percent between 1969-
1975. Bank projections forecast an average annual growth rate of cement
demand of 13 percent from 1977-1981, compared with consumption growth of 20
percent annually between 1969 and 1975. Black market prices, which are cur-
rently 50 to 100 percent above official levels, reflect the scarcity of cement
in Algeria, which is due not only to an under-supply relative to construction
activity, but also to continuing inefficiencies in port handling, and cement
transportation and distribution. The 1974-1977 Plan foresees an expansion
of national cement production capacity from 1.5 million tons per year in
1975 to 8.0 million tons per year in 1978. An approximate balance of sup-lY
and demand is expected to be aclhieved by 1979-1980. Increased cement produc-
tion is essential if planned growth rates in agriculture, housing and the
social services sectors are to be achieved.
27.       Algeria's construction materials sector (though not cement produc-
tion) will benefit from the Bank's US$40 million loan to the Banque Algerienne
de Developpement (BAD), approved by the Executive Directors in June 1975, which
is expected to contribute to the upgrading of project appraisal and supervision
standards in the industrial sector. About half of the loan will be used for
the RIDP program (para 23). With technical assistance from the Bank and UNDP,
BAD is expected to increase its involvement in the construction materials
industry, in project identification, analysis of creditworthiness, and monitor-
ing of loans, in cooperation with the Plan Secretariat and the Ministries of
Finance and Industry. BAD will be invited to participate in the Bank's super-
vision of the project proposed in this report.



Accounting and Auditing
28.       At the time of independence. Algeria faced a severe shortage of
accountants and auditors. Due to a massive trainingr effort, the situation
has much improved, but major difficulties remain. The accounts of state
enterprises are normally audited by    'commissaires aux comptes" from the
Finance Ministry, but Societe Nationale de Comptabilite (SNC), a state enter-
prise under the tutelage of the Finance Ministry, is increasingly asked to
make audits on behalf of the "commissaires". SNC also sets up basic accotnt-
ing systems within public sector enterprises. Since it operates in a number
of companies, and is able to enforce accounting standards through its inde-
pendent auditing, SNC can be instrumental in improving the financial respon-
sibility of Algerian enterprises more generallv.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.        The Algerian Government requested Bank assistance to SNMC for-the
financing of the Saida cement plant in November 1973. Plans for the plant
were prepared by SNMC, with the assistance of consultants. Later, the Gov-
ernment's request was extended to include assistance for an improved distri-
bution system, and technical assistance to SNC. The project was appraised by
Bank missions to Algeria in May and July of 1975. Negotiations took place in
October 1975. The Borrower was represented by Mr. Moussi, Financial Director;
the Guarantor was represented by Mr. Hassam, Director General, Finance Ministry.
A detailed description of the project is given in the report entitled
"Appraisal of the SNMC Expansion Project," Report No. 874-AL, dated November
25, 1975, which is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a loan
and project summary.
The_Project
30.        The objectives of the project focus on its institution building
effect on the building materials sector. The project attempts to help
SN'MC cope with the present and future organizational and financial prob-
lems created by an ambitious investment program. SNMC needs to develop frorn
a financially weak enterprise which is struggling to meet its production
targets under the Plan, to one which can meet production and distribution
ta;gets as well as maintain financial discipline and strict cost control.
The proposed loan attempts to contribute to this development by dealing with
three critical problems: (i) cement production, (ii) distribution means and
planning, and (iii) accounting, financial planning and auditing.
31.       The project has three components:    (i) construction of a 500,000
tons per year (tpy) cement plant near Saida; (ii) expansion and reorganization
of SNMC's distribution system; and (iii) technical assistance to SNC.      The coL,-
struction of the Saida plant is part of Algeria's Four-Year Plan (1974-77).



- 11 -
The Saida plant, which will be located in the plateau region inland from Oran,
is an important part of the special development program which fosters indus-
trial and agricultural development of Algeria's less developed regions away
from the coastal strip.
32.       Construction of the Saida plant is the main physical component of
the project. In addition, however, the impact of the planned increase in
SNMC's cement production capacity between 1975 and 1978 will require the com-
pany to develop in parallel its expertise in marketing, distribution, cost
control, and financial management. Accordingly, the project also provides for
a program to expand SNMC's distribution network: 260 silo-railway wagons and
190 20-ton trucks (compared with the present 60 silo wagons and 40 trucks)
will be acquired and owned by SNMC, and comprehensive distribution studies
emphasizing marketing strategy and the optimal location of SNMC's distribution
facilities will be financed under the loan. The third component of the proj-
ect is a technical assistance program for SNC, which would improve SNC's
ability, initially in collaboration with consultants, to carry out external
audits of Algerian enterprises and to introduce, in them, modern cost account-
ing and budgeting, internal and external auditing systems, and computer data
processing.
Cost and Financing
33.       The following table summarizes project costs (including interest
during construction):
Local   Foreign     Total    Percent
(US$ Million)
1.   Saida Plant                           65.0    120.4      185.8      68.7
2.   Distribution Improvements              2.6      18.6      21.2       9.9
3.   SNC Technical Assistance               2.3       5.1       7.4       3.4
Financing Requirement                 70.3     144.1     214.4     100.0
34.       By international standards, the estimated cost of the Saida plant,
based largely on a contract already awarded, is high; fixed assets (not in-
cluding infrastructure and investment for the associated lime plant) amount
to US$285 per annual ton of cement produced compared to US$180 in comparable
plants now being built. The high unit cost would be reduced to about US$225
per ton if plant capacity were doubled. liowever, the market prospects in
Saida's natural supply area do not justify such an expansion within the next
eight to ten years. The reasons for the high capital costs include (i) a
built-in overcapacity and excessive safety margins, (ii) capital-intensive
design features such as a high degree of automation, (iii) guarantee require-
ments and pen4lties exceeding the international norm, and (iv) a premium paid
for plant implementation under a turnkey contract. However, in addition to
the above reasons, which may account for costs of about US$20 million, there
is another major factor in Saida's high capital cost:    During the past two



- 12 -
years, SNMC has signed other turnkey contracts for five cement plants with
leading cement contractors. These suppliers are well aware of: (i) the pre-
vailing working conditions in Algeria; and (ii) SNMC's emphasis on time
schedules, technical quality and output guarantees rather than the level of
capital costs. SNNC's approach and the Algerian system have, therefore, created
a procurement climate which induces high priced offers. Under such circumstances
the normal cost-reducing effect of international competitive bidding has not
materialized. It is estimated that a savings of USS5 million could still be
made if the over-designed features were modified. This possibility was dis-
cussed during negotiations, and SNMC's technical staff are presently reviewing
the Bank's suggestions.
35.       Of the proposed Bank loan (US$46.0 million) to be made to SNNC,
about US$31 million will cover approximately 25% of the estimated foreign ex-
change cost of the Saida plant; about US$10 million will provide the foreign
cost of the most urgent requirements of trucks and silo wagons plus foreign
exchange expenditures on the related distribution studies; and about US$5
million will be onlent to SNC to cover the foreign exchange component of the
technical assistance program. The other financing of the Saida plant will be
provided by the turnkey contract supplier (US$57 million) and by loans from
Algerian financial institutions, and Treasury advances, of together approxi-
mately US$98 million. The Government will also provide the remaining financ-
ing for the distribution network and the technical assistance component to
SNC as well as any overrun financing, on terms consistent with the financial
Undertakings of SNMC (paragraph 41) (draft Guarantee Agreement, Sections 2.03,
3.01), that might become necessary to complete all project elements. The foreign
exchange risk of the loan will be borne by SNMC.
Project Execution
36.       SNMC will be responsible for the execution of the Saida plant and
distribution components of the project with the assistance of qualified con-
sultants. With the Bank's concurrence, the company has signed a turn-key
contract for the construction of the Saida plant with a Japanese supplier,
covering detailed engineering, supervision of civil works, supply and erection
of equipment, and commissioning and training. In view of SNMC's substantial
investment program and limited number of qualified staff, the implementation
of the Saida plant under a turn-key approach is appropriate. SNMC will make
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for technical services to support plant
operations after the start-up period (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a)).
SNMC will on-lend to SNC that portion of the loan, about $5 million, required
for the SNC auditing and training program (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)). The execution of the program will be the responsibility of SNC, in
collaboration with an international auditing firm acceptable to the Bank.



- 13 -
Procurement and Disbursement
37.       In May 19.75, the award of the turnkey contra(t for the Saida plant
was made; offers for the civil construction contract for the Saida plant have
subsequently been invited.   In both cases, SNMC followed international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.    Equip-
ment for the railway link between the plant and the national railway networkl,
as well as railway silo wagons and trucks under the di- tribution component,
will also be procured thirouglh international competitive bidding in accordance
withi the Bank's guidelines. In the evaluation of bids, a margin of preference
equal to 15 percent or the import duties and taxes, whlichever is less, will
be applied to offers from local manufacturers of equipi.ent financed under
the loan.
38.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against:    (a' 30 percent of out-
standing foreign expenditures under the turnkey contra(.t for the Saida cement
plant; (taking into account the period between contract signature and Bank
loan signature, this means the Bank will finance 15 percent of the contract);
25 percent of the civil construction cost (representin, the estimated foreign
exchange component); 100 percent of foreign expenditur-s or 65 percent of
total expenditures (representing the estimated foreign exchange component) on
materials and supplies for the railway link; and 100 p.rcent of the foreign
exchange cost of consulting and technical assistance sirvices for engineering,
supervision, commissioning and initial operation of the Saida plant; (b) 100
percent of the foreign exchange cost of distribution s:udies and 100 percent
of the c.i.f. cost of imported silo wagons and cement rucks or 65 percent of
total expenditures for locally produced equipment (covering the estimated
foreign exchange component in the event, whicih is cons dered inlikely, that
Algerian suppliers win the awards for the supply of su,.h equipment); and (c)
100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the SNC technical assistance
pro-ram. The Bank loan would be disbursed between 197. and 1981. Retroactive
financing of up to US$300,000 for consulting services    or the engineering of
the Saida plant is proposed (draft Loan Agreement, Schr:dule 1, para. 4).
The Cement Market
39.       Based on an estimated 8.6 percent annual rea    growth of the Algerian
economy until 1977, the second Four-Year Plan (1974-77 implies an average
annual cement demand of approximately 7 million tons - 3.3 times total
domestic production during the same period. Starting from the estimated 1975
consumption of about 3.8 million tons, a "medium" projoction represents an
average annual growth of cement demand of 13-16 percen:, as compared to the
consumption growth of 20 percent annually between 1969 and 1975.    Based on
current production capacity and new capacity (includin- the Saida unit) for
which commitments have been made, it is estimated that there will be an ap-
proximate balance between cement supply and demand by 1979-80. }lowever, the
Government and SNMC have under consideration the const-uction of four addi-
tional cement plants in 1978-80, with a total capacity of 3 million tpy;



- 14 -
these plants could cause oversupply if commissioned. This situation was
reviewed during negotiations on the proposed loan. SNNMC has agreed to furnish
the Bank, during 1978, a detailed cement market study; the proposed content of
the studv will be discussed with the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section
4.04(a)). Furthermore, before deciding to invest in cement production expan-
sion, SNMC will carry out the necessary preparatory studies, until the market
study is furnished to the Bank, SNMC will furnish these preparatory studies
to the Bank and exchange information and views with the Bank on the proposed
scope and content, as well as the conclusions, of the studies (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.04(b)).
SNMC's Financial Position
40.       Although SNMC increased its physical output by 35 percent between
1970 and 1974, thereby doubling sales, losses increased to 25 percent of sales
in 1974. Among the rm-ain reasons for these losses are: (i) prices have not
been adjusted commensurately with increased operating costs due to inflation,
and with the higher import prices for the products that SNMC resells in
Algeria; and (ii) the lack of an effective budgeting and cost control system.
Eighty-seven percent of SNMC's net loss originated in three sectors: cement,
bricks and tiles, and concrete, which together accounted for about 72 percent
of the company's net sales.   In order to maintain SNMC's liquidity position,
in 1973 the Government rescheduled debts for investments under the 1974-77
Plan, by extending the repayment period for commercial bank and BAD loans to
7 and 15 years respectively; a similar refinancing of 1974 losses took place
recently.
41.       During negotiations, a number of measures were agreed with the
Government and SNMC which should, in the future, help SNMIC to become inde-
pendent of subsidies and be able to meet its financial obligations without
resort to frequent use and rolling over of short term credit. First, SNMC will
strengthen its financial planning, accounting, budgeting and cost control
methods, on a schedule agreed with the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04).
Second, SNMC will conduct annual price reviews and propose to the Government
selling prices equal to average unit cost plus a margin sufficient to cover
debt, for each product or product group; the Government, in turn, has stated
its intention to set prices accordingly (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.06,
draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.04). Third, SNMC will maintain a debt
service ratio agreed with the Bank for the company as a whole as well as for
the Saida plant, a ratio of current assets to short-term (i.e., excluding long
te;m debt obligations) liabilities agreed with the Bank for the Saida plant
and sufficient current assets to meet the company's current liabilities as
they fall due (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.07). During negotiations, the
debt service ratio was agreed at 1.1, and the ratio of current assets to
short-term liabilities at 2.5. In case SNMC cannot maintain these require-
ments with internally generated funds, the Government will take all such steps



(other than the provision of short-terrmi funds) to ensuire that SNMC has avail-
able adequate funds to achieve the ratios and meet its liabilities (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.05).
42.        SNMC's rapid expansion is expected to continue at least until thie
end of the present decade. On the basis of the price policy set out in para-
graph 41, cement sales are expected to rise from about $67 million in 1976 to
about $340 million in 1981. Net profit should rise more slowly, from about
$11 million in 1976 to about $44 million in 1981. The company's debt service
coverage is expected during this period to be between 1.8 and 1.3. Until
about 1978, other sectors should remain, in terms of revenue, more important
to the company than cement, but cement sales should increase rapidly as new
plants come on stream, rising from about 33 percent of total sales in 1976
to about 55 percent in 1981.
Financial and Economic Viability of_the Proj ect
43.        The Saida plant will be a relatively high-cost producer because of
its high capital cost. However, its operating costs are expected to be ten
to twenty percent lower than those of comparable plants in Europe and North
America, due to the low cost of fuel in Algeria. As a result of the high
financial and depreciation clharges on the capital intensive plant, and since
output prices will be based on average unit cost for all plants (including
some older plants with costs much lower thani at Saida because of lower depre-
ciation and financial charges), the Saida plant will be able to break even
only after six years of full capacity production. The financial return on
the plant is 3.7 percent.   However, the economic rate of return is 10.3 percent.
Particularly in a centrally planned economy such as Algeria's, where state
enterprises operate as agents of the Government, the financial rate of return
on a project is of only limited value since it takes no account of the dis-
crepancies between domestic prices and world market prices.
44.       The extension of SNMC's truck and railway wagon fleet is justified
as the least-cost solution to the cement distribution problem. SNCFA, the
Algerian state railway company which operates the SNMC-owned wagons, is ex-
pected to grant SNMC a rebate on its tariffs which would permit SNMC to recover
its investment within eight years. In addition, financial analysis of the
truck fleet expansion indicates that SNMC could operate its truck fleet at
a total cost per Lon/kilometer that is 15 percent below the present tariff
of the Algerian freight transport company, SNTR.
Benefits and Risks
45.        The project is expected to facilitate the continuation and strengthen-
ing of a constructive dialogue with SNMC and the Government on industrial de-
velopment in Algeria. The most important specific benefits of the project
will be derived from its assistance to SNMC in coping with the present and



- 16 -
future organizational, marketing, and financial problems created by a two bil-
lion dollar investment program. The Saida plant will help to alleviate the
bottleneck in the supply of construction materials andl contribute to employment
and development in the rural plateau region. The distribution component of
the project represents the necessary complement to SNMC's ongoing expansion of
production facilities; its benefits derive from SNMC's urgent need to focus
on a reorganization of its distribution function and to develop an adequate
transport and marketing strategy within the next two vears. The technical
assistance to SNC is an integral part of the project's effort to strengthen
SNMC; SNC will act as SNMC's external auditor.    SNC is also expected to assist
SNMC in strengthening its cost control, budgeting, financial planning and
accounting methods. However, the major benefit of the SNC program will be
the improvement of accounting and auditing practices in Algerian enterprises.
46.       The technical risks of the project are minor.    Difficulties mighit
arise if SNMC and SNC cannot recruit and retain suffi.ient qualified staff to
implement the expansion and cost control programs. Tlie more important risk,
however, lies in the question whether the proposed pricing policy and finavn-
cial measures agreed during negotiations will operate effectively and serve
as a vehicle for the introduction of improved management and greater produc-
tivity in the industrial sector.
PART V - LEGAl INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Societe Nationale
des Materiaux de Construction, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria and the Bank, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii7 of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
48.       Features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 35, 36, 38, 39, and 41 of this report.
The conclusion of an on-lending agreement between SNM( and SNC is an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RFCOtMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamnara
President
Attachments
November 25, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 pages
SUXRYTH DATA - ALGERIA
JREA                                               POPULATION                                 DENSIfi
2,381,761 k.2                                        11.26  million (ntd-1972)                                        rb.In
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reee c ountries
Algei 
GNP PEN CAPITA 11S$ (ATIAS BASIS) /1                           ..              30 /      ~     220 L.       370 L.       010 /
DEMURSIAPHIC
TFiMIfttth rate (per thousand)                               ..               9 /b           iS 1b        30 /c,d      10 I
Crude death rate (Per thousuod)                              --17 1b                          12 1b        13 /c,d       9 7
Infant mortality rote (per thoused live births)              ..86 /e.f                        80          115 /
Life ex,pectanc.y at birth (per, ...5288                                                                   55
Green reproduction rate                                      *.             3.5 /c           3.3A/        2.6 /d,h     1.3 /
P.Nplattuo growh rote                                        1.8              .               .   i       25~            .
PoP.latton growth rate - orbeo7j''                                                             1           .             .
Age structu:re (perneoL)
o-o                            66 4n                                       h7r             63     4~ 1.8              27 /v
656 doe                                                      268 77                         56/        53.9           65T7
Ag5 and eve    6tfrth                                                        573                 a       63             a77
Age- deedec            a.to/  A                              0.97            oil             0.9 77       0.8          0.5 77
EcnmcdePendency ril'/I.,7 26Z                                                           1.5           1 1          0.9
Urban pepuletien as percent of total                          31 1k          50 /h,c          32 /00     38.7 Li        39~j
PFsily plon-icg   No. of -acoptor  cumlative (thou.          ...                             bog          686 /e,t
Nc. of users (8 cof married sac             ...8                                        8.2 /
Total latr fcrcs (thous-and)                               2,90 go/l,      2,600  ru      13,200           67,50     8   59/0
Percen.tage sopicyad in agicultur                           67 1k          s                   /c    06,52  L      8,0   /o
Percen.tage unemployed                                                     Lil               777          ( a/o      3.3 /LIAC
INCOMnt W          .l..cc .. rcived by highest 5%                                         25 /co        00           15/ 
Percen.t of oai   li.com ..received by highest 25$..                                          5!./.        60
Pee cet of   etinol icoe..  received by lowest 20%            .                                  /f 
Pret ofntioa ..incomo reo-i-d by lowes-t 40%...12.c                                                     1/           ig,
DISTRIBUTION OF IAND OAB08NHIP
S o-nd by top 10% of osos                                    ....                                          3         05.1 /-r
9 os-n-d by meanest 15$ of u-re                               .              .                            0.9         0.    7
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per physician                                                   7,886/            710i &v    2,9             10/
.Popistic  per nursing person                                 ..270                        i970 1        ,3In33 Lv
Population per hospital bed                                  3i0 /-c         360 /           850 lou.d    6,80         170 iT /yj
Per n.Pita cisrim supply as 9 of r-quirmats/73 /pc                           71               05                        V
Per capita P prtet  supl,otl"grsspe day           6           67 /0           5               65           78           92
Of uhich, anim  alnd poie1                                     /c            9o             ?/             2/f        2/
Death rote 1-6 Yasro /7                                      ..                92             2o/          151k.       2.59
ERONCATION
AdJusted /8 primary school snrslssst sai.u                    1a6             75             112 /ohni    ii            91
AdJusted 77 suoruor   scishul snronsent ratio                  8              ii              65 Li        28           15
Years of so.hooling providod, first and second 1ovel       13-15           03-is              00           OX           12
Vosational m.orslleot as 9 of -e. school ....llsst            29 /9.j         20              10 /6,k      IL           72
Adut literecyrete %                                           ..25/                           75 /UA0i     55 /84       068
Avera ge N.o.of persons per ross (urbeo)                      ..2.9 /0.0,                    .            1.9          1.3 /
Percen.t of occpied ucits without piped watsr                                 77 /r.oo,oo     66 /g,a.o     6).an       66 ;w.
A.c... to electricity (as 9 of total Ppuplutioc)                              3 .             23            l
Perc..ot of turoi pepolati - esansted to sl1-tricity          .02                 oo           6 l1c        6/o          0 00
CONSUMPTION
LJTo 7rni-er    per 1000 popeition                            51             .7 In6 L                      07 1k       8'701k
Peseengee cans pec 1080 populatiso16                          10701k                         c/          18I
Elsotric pewec ososu,sption (bob p.o.)        123            062  n           28           30;. LU   1,870C T.
No..epriet c-osuption p.c. kg per y.ar                       0.6           0.01 Li           1.1 /0.0     0.2  a       6.2 77
Noten: Figur-   refer nither tc tho lotont periode  tor "s"'caIt of sorirorseta             temperature, body aihe      n
the lete-t yearn.  in tent perodoa refer io prio-iple t.           distribution by age nav sea of national popaintiss..
the year. 1956-60 or 1966-70; Lie lotont yeurn in pi.          /6  Protein standards (requirmenets) for oil ac...triese as estab-
cipi. to 1960 nod 1970.                                            liobmd by U011A E.....nic haooarh Service provide for a min-u
Z9  Th. Per Capita GbP stieato ic ot osrit pric-    for             al11ouco of hO grom  of totol protein per day, and DO gram  of
20000 utir than 196S0,cotsulutsd by lbs." seconcormios         ania,a  and poles proteic, of ahich 10 grams should be animal
technique on tic 1972 World Bock Atos,                         protei.-  These standards are sosuhot io-s then those of 75
Z2 Averoge nuber of doughtern per -00     of rcprduneti-            groin  of total, protein sou 23 grom  of enina  protein as am
oge.                                                            nesrage for tbe w.rid, proposed by PAl in tee Third World PFud
/2.Bpulociso growth roc- ore for the d-cd-o ecdlog io            Sorne,r
1960 nod 1 970.7 LIIcs tadise bone suggested teat oruds death rates of children
/4  Rtiio of .pupaotion   nd-r 15 and 65 and ortopapun-             ogre 1 through 6 ay he used us a firsi npprsnimation index of
tic  of ages 15-6b for age dpendenoy ntio and to iabor         nolnu.tr iti_n
force of ages 15-65 for economic dependency rotia.          /   Peroe,tvge scroled of norr-peediog population of sohool age
15  FAO   efr-c     standards represent physioiogical ,.-           an defined for soot osontry.
quireneto for nooral notivity and health, takig
/a   1972;   /5   1965-70 UN estimate;       1970~-75;  /d  Derived frm. seple surveay etsc.late  (240,OOD persons), .exluding
17 eastere provines;    /e   1965;   /5  Algerian pepulation only;   Li 1968;     bh 1965-67;    /i 1960-72;     U     1l956-60;
/L   Fifty-five of Lbs rest iportant coanshosing local self-govsromnn;           /1  1960-66;   Li Por the definition of urbho,
ore lsog,aphic Ysorboodk  1972. p. 1I5     /.  Admdinitratve ceters of provincos and districts ('llayet', and      Roan'
centers;   /0    1573;/p   Eotla"te;    la  1960-61 UN estImate, based on results of m pestc.-ssl sample survy taken
from end of 1960 to Spring of 1961, exoludng pepulatlon of the too DWeparmnts of the Sahara, nunering 587,569 at 1960
0500; /  1966;   Li 1965-June 1976;     A   86 percent being I'JDs;   .   Exluding   Uiitacy persuals in harr-e-hk
and 276,668 nationals abroad of ohe. 229,020 ar econ..omically octire, also excluding 1,200,000 fsaales mainly -oopied in
agrioulture;   Li 1971;     Lw  15 years and over;   /.  Households;    I. Ditpe..able income;   La 1969;    /"   Pe-rsnnel
in governmet s-ri-s only;       /ab  Inoludig ass istant nones and adoe..;       Ins  1962    lad  Including rura  hospitals;
Ins  Ratio of regloterd job s.eekrs in active pepulation;     l9f  1966-66;    L.A  Fer definition of urban sea UN Demogrephic
Yearbook. 1973. P. 129;    /-h  1967;   /al  Estimate which includes over-age students;    /9j  Not including private
v-atli..a  schools;   L6ak  Not inoluding vocational short-ten   c-roco;    ale  Perooo oin years uld and over who tell
the censu  tkbero that tbsp oan read and writs;    an   Dmfioitioo not avIlable;     /     ran  an-  d rurl;  /s  Percentage
of doenlings;   /9.p Incluing vnoant deollings;     aq     nsiode or outoide;  la-  Agrioulture lend held by soc ial sector
Ko-bl-ts;    /aa  Agrioulture land held by private snail-holders;   /. WRotor piped inside;   lou Import only; ala  hgiocered.
o  Tgos1avia h.s been s1leotd nas an  bjti-v country for Algeria boonu..e the eco...nis    of both -cootri-o are
centrM  y planed and Yuigolo-io hoe bad o larger expsrieue of docelopa...t than Algeri..
Nj September 26, 1975



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTM DATA                                              a-g-e z2 o f 3 Pa ge s
(Amounts in nillion   o f U.S. dollas
Actual     Eat.               Projected             1966-   1973 -   1975 -    1980 -
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS3966               1~973    1.974       19 75    19 77    19 80     1973     197-7    1980     1985      1966    1974     1980
Amounts in 1073    -     Prices & EXchang      Rte      Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of P
Cross Domestic Product             4,6        ,7      ,9           ,8      041      1,0          .                ,        .       1.       19       8.
Gains froa Terms of Trade (+)  - 504  0 ( 1,768       1,437    1,809    2,941        .                         .      -13.0    ts,t     18.0
Gross -Dometi   Incm7723                     7Z775   92737        9920    12773    1347         9.9    13,1     10.5      7.9     TOOTO7  7o3FT9     o
Import (inc. REP)                    975    2,869    3,481       4,031     4,954     6,068     10.3   06.7       8,5      3.1      73,2    35.6     37.1
Ex ports  "    import capacity)    1,171     2,057   3,843        3,222    4,135     8,205      8,4    191      14.0      5.4      30.3    37,3      38.0
Resource Gap                       -0196       617   --           -805       818 9    4-37       .       --5.                              -1.     - 0,
Consumption Expenditures           3,070    5,214    6,091        8,523    8,013    9,941       8.1   11.3       8.8      8.0      78.2    62.4      80.8
Investment   1.(inc. stocks)         647    2,872    3,514       4,202     5,046    8,268      23.7   45.1       8.3      7.5      16.7    36.0     38.3
Domestic Savings                     847    2,260    3,677        3,397    4,227    6,405      15.2   5-7.0     13.5      7.7      21.8    37.8     39.2
National Savings                     807     2,404   3,852        3,548    4,749     6,281     113. 9 15.2      12.1      8.1      25.9    39.4      38,4
NERCHANImSF TRADE                           Annuial. Data att Current Prices                                                      As Percent of Total.
Trmsorts
Capital goods                                965   1,699        2,174    1,143    4,760                                                  36.2     38 2
..0.taec coeds 'nIFI              ~~~~~~~~1 704  3,000  3,940    5_351    8.2407                                                 63.8     63.6
Totui goods and NFS                          2,669   4,699        6,014    8,694   13,167                                                 100.0    100.0
Exoorts
lil aa    sreducts                         1,489   4,348        4,164    6,423    12,202                                                 88,4      90.6
le~~~ C J5.~~~~ .j~~~. ~568          570          649      833     1 '~62                                                 11.6      9.4
Total goods and NEDS                      2,-057   4-,gly8     C77       7 -_757  TT)00.0_                                                       100.0
Merchandise. Trade lndicec                              1973     lOll
Export Price index                63,7     1q0.fiI   262.4       260.23   312.0   412,5      6.7    32.8        9.0     6.5
Import Price Index                91.5     1I'i.0    135.0      149.2     175.5   217,0      0.3    15.1        7.8     7.0
Terms of Trade Index              64.7     100.5     194.4       179.8    177.8   190.1      6,4    15.5        1.1    -0,4
VALUE ADDED ST SECTOR              Annual Data at   1573    I-rIces and Eixchange hates___       er   eA,enuaL Growth Pates        As Perce.nt ot' ITefl
Agrt-ult-e                      521        34     -683          7~07 -   707      R,O1.              12        3.,5            11.9        8.3     5.4
Hydrocarbons                    947      1,421    1,322       1,523    1,792    2,591       6.0      6.0      13.1             23.7      03.1     16,8
Indu,stry                       862      1,874    2,242       2,485    3,220   4,459       10,5    1.4.5      11,5             19.7      27.4     28.9
other Services                20_37     3_986      ,_948      _2224    ._±95   .7,545       8,6.    1 ,3      Ile1             4~6.7     48,2L    489
Total                         4,367      7,475    9,196       9,138   11,266   15,435       8.0     10.8      11.1            100,0      100.0   100.0
PUBlIfC FINANCE.                                                                                                                     As Percent of GBP
(Tcestral Gove,rnment)                                                                                                             1~973    1974
Curent Receipts                         2,641    5,685                                                                        25.3      58,2
Curent E  pendituree-                  1,459     1_769                                                                        19.5      18.1
3t,.'.geay levings                       1,182    3,916                                                                        15.8       40.1
Pcbsio teeter t.eenetnet                 2,717    4,666                                                                        36.3       47.8
'JR $ million
CUPPRENT KXPENCITIU1E DETAILS                  Act-al        Est.                           P11k)A! O N                         torrent          PaJE
An 9. Total Cer-est Expe,nd)            1969     1973      1974                           PUBlI1C 511T701                     037 /7?       .o   Total
Education                                24.4     28,5      78.2                         RINVECTMENTI PROGRAMkN
Other, Social Services                   22.1    18.0       16.8                         Agl,cae       ml.
Eco,omi, Services                        11.5    01.1       12.3                           irci,;atioi. and waterworks)       1,030             13.6
Adeisis,~~ttioo n a,Defense              31.5    24.4       23.1                         Hideation                              644              8.5
other                                    10.5     11.0      19.6                          Inedos; , and Energy                4,059             53.8
.1-i  ,rreot Expenditures             1000C0   100.0     100,0                           rnpr     and Rnfrastru-ture           735              9.8
Ithier                              107714.3
____________________________________ ____________________   _______________ ______   Inta-  t el   adp toreit7,5467,54 6
PELECTE I) JNPICATGIH',                            11(16      0571-     1575 -      ~       INAiCING
(Calculated fron 5-year averag!ed data)           1q273       1977     198:                Co~rrect B3sdg,et Seepl,s            3,023             40.1
Average TICS                                      CS                        o~~~~~~~~~~~~~8  ceeie  orwe           1,741             23.1
Imnport Elasticity                                 1,9         1,9      0,9                 Foreign Rorrowiag (net)             1,275             16 9
Moe-joel National Ravings Rate  42.0      4     444                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eqeeipeent Bond Sales   977             12,9
M-,-in,~) National Sa,inga Rate  42.0  39.4     44.4Depesiitn with Treas.are                 Festal
Sstaen          5__307.
Total Financing                      7,546            100.0
LA.1CR FP01E1 AND                               Total Laobe Force                                Value 4dded Per Worker (1973 -     Pie&Es.btes)
OUTPUT PER WORICEJI               Is Thessands        9 or Total          1964, -73         in U.S.Poler        Percent of Average        1966- 73
1966        1973    1968      -1973     Growth Rate         1966      1-973       1966      1973       Growth Nate
Agri-Ittere                    1,270       6,450    614         55          1.9              411)     410          19        1.5            0.0
Iedre-arbons                      14          30      1          1         11.5           67,643   47,167       3 2,09 7  1.686            -4.9
Isdustry(echer)                  1 56        402      8         15         14.5            5,526    4,667         25 3      166            -2.4
ieCVen0                 ~~~~        ~~~~    ~~560  7 78  28  29     4.3 .638.               4 tilS_                 1.1             3-4
Total                          2,000       2,660    100        100          4.2            2, 184    2,810        100        100            3.7
not applicable-        -  il or nogligible               C    oIn. I 9yt aed  dp,mare Pee;et        r   iven in the body If lee, eer.    od in tiheeceee
not. available        -losthaz. hialf tirpr                      a-Dl      oi a i     -nic ilt i,e en', en Parale swith lt  ererto,    eo
onaileet omit shown             2.Pe     cjcto          w now  here ore bor:-d oe the miost optj,inistir conp;ioo  o  reoe're  el
ISil,.5deserib-  nLe     nsnc     c  <   (AL.-j0G



ANNEX I
-f 3 pag
0&A671AC  Op PAnmIIB9rr BRNAL ASSISTANCE AN:D DE8T
(samnts in  icnis of U.S. dollars at curnt pricea)
Actual                       RstitateJt                                 Projected
1970        1971        1972       1973         1974          1975    1-976          1977        1040       1985
SUMMARY bU4ANCZ OF PAYMENTS
M.ports (iol. NF-3)                    1,142       1,006      1,446       2,057         4 918       4,813       6,289       7,257      13,464     24,505
Deports (tool. 075)                    1,538       1,504      1,836       2,669         4,700       6,015       7,377       8,694     13,167      23,672
Resource sa.laccslI-M)                   -                                                218       -1,201     -1,088      -1,437         297        833
Ictereot (cet)                             5        - 16        - 29        -60          -46          -81        -179        -293        -667       -582
Other                                    -151       - 75        - 46         -48          -53          -50        - 68       - 77        - 85        -117
Workers ' Ronittance                     178         192         224        214           241          266        290         313         387         543
Current Tran7rer3 (nst)                   38         -60          22         84            95          95          95          95          95         95
mlElane unCuriiixns                      32         -4r         -Z2        -4z          -            -976       -     949   1 _7p          27
Private Dir.ct  nes ta..ot                46         -46          18         48            55           64         74          04         104         89
Official Capital Orants                   17         199          16          3           -76            0          0           0           0          0
Pubtti .LT Loans
Disbureeut.                             89         226         290       1,066          470        1,032       1,651     2,307        1,869       2,129
-Repsa-ents                              -73         -72        -llo       -154          -200         -281        -449      -677       -Lf651      _2.161
Net Dibur-nsts                           16         154         180         912         -162          751       1,202     1,630          218       - 232
Aetp-1                   Kstimated
Capital Tr-osootitos  1.e.t.              77         154         184        116           -87                                    197v      1971      1972     1973        1974
Chauc is Net    Res-                      70         - 4        -173        -617         -550       DEErr AND D00bT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disburd    1,918     2,072    2,252     3,164       3,143
GRANT AND IOAN OOHrTMENTrS
official Grants & Orest-lite              17         199          16          3             3        Intorent us Public Debt        11       26        47         79        130
RepO3yienta cp Public Debt     73       72       110        154        193
public 1LT    - Iane                                                                                 Total Public Debt Serrice      84       98       157        233        418
IBRD-                                               -            -         25           158        Other Debt Ser-ico  (st)        -        -         -        -           -
IDA                                     -           -            -         -             -         Total Debt Sc-vis (cot)        04       98       157       233         418
Other
Other Multilateral                                                                               burden on DEport 0ErIn10p (%)
Go-ercouc-to                           ..           ..          ..         244           92
Slppli-  5s ..                                      ..          ..          42          250        Public Debt S-r7ice           7.4      9.7      10.9       11.3         8.5
Fiaciul      titu..                                             ..       1,301           50        Total Debt S-rric            7.4      9.7      10.9       11.3        8.5
BDndo                                                                                              TD3+Direct boost. toe,       17.6     13.7      11.0       11.3        7.4
public Loons n.e.i.t,.                                                                                                  c
Total Public H&LT Jo,,,                  ..           ..          ..     '7l          -no          Average Terms .-   Public Debt
Actual Debt Getsta Iiig on Des. 31.72                     Int. as S Prior YTar DO&D     0.6      1.4       2.3        3.5        4.1
ElISRItAL 000?                                Disbrreed Onlv             Percent                       Anort. as S Prior Tsar DD&D   3.8      3.8       5.3        6.8        6.1
Wbrld bank
IDA4                                            ---                       ---                      D16 Debt Out. &, DIbursd
Other Mbltilateral                               4.8                      0.2                      r    as   PUblic Debt 0&D         ..      ..       0.6        0.3         0.5
GOc_rnencts                                    824.0                     26.0                        "     %s 9 Public Debt Service
Suppliers                                    1,153.0                     36.4
Financial Inotituti-no                       1,045.0                     33.0                      IDA Debt Ot. & Disbursed
804da                                          78.7                       2.5                       " 05 9 Public Debt O&D
Public Debts n.e.i                             50.5                       1.6                       "as     Public Debt Servios
Total Public HIlT Debt                       3,164t7                    Tur.
Other MhLT Debts
Short-tern Debt (di.b. c,ly)
.not applinublo                                               e stafr estieate          liM.ES
. nt available                                                - nil or negligible      1. Y- 1974 and 1975, core r-... tIn ore give- in the body cr the r--ort and ilh in. ecro..r
not availabls separately                                     -- less thee hblf the     report (AL 900), br     i a ionic Ihnt h.  ot co-parablr  tir trre cerron slrwrr h:ero.
but imlded in total                                              smallest unit shovD
b,. 1sly  bro    .  Ionn                tALno lr r.  D=sed on t .lecstopoiourtin  aorrrjtinrfr.-rerrrrrorr..,.
burly usodoscrobed cm: one emorromol rr ;rrr.r (AL-sod).



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at October 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                                US$ million
Credit                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year           Borrower              Purpose      Bank     IDA       Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                   80.5
912  AL     1973      The Democratic and        Highways      18.5                   13.4
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913  AL     1973      The Democratic and        Education      6.0                    5.7
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995  AL     1974      The Democratic and        Port          70.0                   57.8
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996  AL     1974      Railways-SNCFA            Railways      49.0                   45.1
997  AL      1974     Power-SONELGAZ            Power         38.5                   33.3
1158 AL 1/  1975      Banque Algerienne         Industrial    40.0                   40.0
de Developpement          Credit
1159 AL -   1975      The Democratic and        Techn. Asst.   8.0                    8.0
Popular Republic of       Rural Dev.
Algeria                                                       _
TOTAL                                                 310.5                  155.3
of which has been repaid                          78.0
Total now outstanding                                 232.5
Amount sold                              34.8
of which has been repaid           34.8
Total now held by Bank                                232.5
Total undisbursed                                     155.3                  155.3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)
1/ Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 912-AL    Highway Project; US$18.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
The highway improvement works and procurement of project equipment
are progressing well. Due to the Government's reassessment of highway develop-
ment priorities, the preinvestment studies were delayed. However, the co-
ordinating consultants were appointed in June 1975 and three consulting firms
were contracted to carry out feasibility studies shortly thereafter. While
nearly all the project studies are now in progress, some changes in the
studies foreseen at appraisal are being made, with the Bank's concurrence.
Loan 913-AL    Education Project; US$6.0 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Implementation of this project has suffered initial delays, due to
ineffective liaison with the Bank and political issues associated with the
planned reorganization of post-secondary agricultural education. The Govern-
ment has appointed a liaison officer and communications have improved in
recent months. Work is now progressing satisfactorily on the technician
centers of the Algerian Petroleum Institute, but implementation of the exten-
sions to the institute of Agricultural Technology has not yet begun.
Loan 995-AL    Port Project; US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Work is progressing satisfactorily and consultants are supervis-
ing construction. Disbursement is on schedule. The project cost, based on
contracts already received, is about the same as the appraisal estimate.
Loan 996-AL    Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 19, 1974;
Effective Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The physical execution of the project is being carried out on time.
Maintenance of locomotives and rolling stock has still to be reorganized in
order to achieve agreed operating targets. Consultant studies financedL under
the loan should help SNCFA to improve the availability of locomotives and
rolling stock in the near future.



a'.  i LT
Page 3 of 3 pages
Loan 997-AL     Power Project; US$38.5 million Loan of June 10, 1974;
Effective Date:   December 20, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The project comprises ten substations, two gas turbine stations,
despatcli tacilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. Technical progress of the project is satisfactory. All main con-
tracts have been awarded. Delays have been encounterei in the provision of
financial information due to lack of experienced staff, interdepartmental
changes of personnel, and changeover to a new computer. The estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project has doubled due to (a) increases in the capacity
of the gas turbine stations, (b) price increases, (c) increased cost and
expansion of studies, and (d) exchange rate changes.    ;'FICA7 has therefore
propose;l and the Bank has agreed to wi thidra. one gas t irhine station and f-ive
substations from Bank financing.
Loan 1158-AL    Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Final arrangements are being made for the secondment of Bank staff
to the project unit in BAD. The UNDP Project Document has been approved.
Loan 1159-AL    Technical Assistance (Rural Development:) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Recruitment of an advisor to the project coordinator is underway
and documents requesting proposals from consultants on the planning, prepara-
tion, and execution of the sub-projects are being finalized.



AN EX i~
Page 1 of 2 pages
ALGERIA - Cement Expansion Project
Loans and Project Summary
BORROWER             Societe Nationale des Materiaux de Construction
GUARANTOR            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
AMOUNT               US$46 million
TERMS                Repayable over a period of 15 years, including a grace
period of 4 vears, at 8.5 percent interest per annum.
SNMC will pay a guarantee fee of 1.5 percent per annuLm
to the Government except on the amount of the loan on-lent
to SNC.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION          The proposed project includes:
(a) Construction cf a 500,000 tons per year cement plant
at Saida
(b) Expansion and reorganization of SNMC's distribution
system
(c) Technical assistance to the Societe Nationale de Comp-
tabilite (SNC), the state enterprise responsible for
auditing and accounting.
ESTIMATED COST       The cost of the project is estimated at about $214 million,
as follows:
Local       Foreign        Total     Percent
------------US$ million--------
1.   Saida Plant
Fixed Assets                   50.8         105.4        156.2       72.8
Working Capital Requirement     3.9           4.2          8.1         3.9
Interest During Construction   10.7          10.8         21.5        10.0
Suh-total                     65.4         120.4        185.8       86.7
2.   Distribution
Vehicles                         -           17.1         17.1         7.9
Studies                         0.6           1.0          1.6        0.8
Repair Facilities               2.0           0.5          2.5         1.2
Sub-total                      2.6          18.6        -21.2        9.9
3.   SNC
5-year Program                  2.3          5.1           7.4        3.4
Financing Requirement           70.3         144.1        214.4       100.0



AN»;IX IllT
Page 2 of 2 ages
FINANCING PL.MN           Saida                   SNC 5-Y'ear
Plant   Distrihution      Proi,ram    Total    'er1en,r
- US$ million -------------              -
IBRD .Loan                 30.8       1(. 1           5.1         46().   2 1'
Supplier's Credit          57.1                                   57.1   2'(.6
Local Debt                 97.9       11.1             2.3       111.3    51.9
Total Financing
Requirement             185.8       21.2            7.4        214.4   1(0.0
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS     Calendar Year    1076    1977    1978    1979     1980    1981
-----------------US$ million-------
Annual:         16.4     22.8     3.(1    1.4     1.4     1.0
Cumulative:     16.4     39.2    42.2    43.0    45.0    46.0
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS         Contracts, for equipmiient, supplies and civil works con-
struction will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. Supply and erection of the Saida plant have been
arrangect on the basis of a turnkey contract.
TECHNICAL            Consultants have been engaged to supervise construction
ASSISTANCE           and commissioning of the Saida plant, in concert with the
contractor. The detailed design of the railway link is
being undertaken by a French consulting firm. Consultants
will be engaged for distribution studies and technical
assistance after commissioning of the Saida plant. An
international auditing firm will be recruited for the SNC
training program. Man-months required are estimated as
follows:
1. Engineering, construction, supervision
and commissioning of Saida plant       300 man months
2.  Design and engineering of rail link      20 man months
3.  Technical assistance after start-up
of Saida plant                          60 man months
4.  Distribution studies                     60 man months
5.  SNC technical assistance                428 man months
RATE OF RETURN       The economic rate of return on the project is 10.3 per-
cent.
APPRAISAL REPORT    Report No. 874-AL, dated November 25, 1975.



