CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1185 AL
Loan Agreement
(SNMC Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES MATERIAUX
DE CONSTRUCTION
DATED JANUARY 7, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1185 AL
Loan Agreement
(SNMC Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES MATERIAUX
DE CONSTRUCTION
DATED JANUARY 7, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SOCIETE NATIONALE DES MATERIAUX DE CONSTRUCTION (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project) by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B)   The Borrower has obtained a supplier's credit in an amount equivalent
to $57,100,000 to assist in the financing of Part A of the Project;
(C)   The Borrower intends to contract from Algerian financial institutions
loans to cover the balance of the required financing, in an amount estimated to
be the equivalent of $97,900,000;
(D)   By the Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between the
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
the Bank, the Guarantor guarantees the repayment of the Loan and undertakes
certain other obligations with respect to the Project; and
(E)   The Bank has agreed on the basis inter alia of the foregoing to make
the Loan as hereinafter provided.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions), namely that:


﻿4
Section 9.02 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The member of
the Bank which is the Borrower or the Guarantor shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request with
respect to financial and economic conditions in its territory."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "SNC" means SociMt Nationale de ComptabilitM, a socidte nationale
established by Ordonnance No. 67-205 dated October 7, 1967; and
(b)   "Saida Plant" means the plant described in Part A of the Project, and
includes all components therein included in the said Part A.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-six million dollars ($46,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and ser--oc3 required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of such later date.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Director General of SNC or such person as he shall
designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purpose
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken with respect to Part C
of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
administrative and financial practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the portion of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to Part C of the Project available to SNC under an on-lending agreement
whose terms and conditions shall include the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement and shall ensure: (i) that such 'funds are available to SNC as and when
needed to carry out Part C of the Project; and (ii) that the Borrower is provided
in a timely manner with such funds as the Borrower shall require to pay to the
Bank the principal, interest and other charges on the said portion of the proceeds
of the Loan.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower. Such consultants shall be
charged with contributing to the Borrower's: (i) engineering, supervision of


﻿6
construction and commissioning of the Saida Plant; and (ii) carrying out of Part
B(1) of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower to make available such technical services as shall be required
for the efficient operation of the Saida Plant, not later than December 31, 1977,
or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree.
(b) The Borrower shall take all such steps as shall be required in carrying
out the training program    forming Part A(1)(c) of the Project to ensure that
adequately trained personnel in sufficient number is available for the efficient
operation of the Saida Plant.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(i)         establish and maintain a system to monitor dust, gas and noise
pollution arising from the operation of the Saida Plant; and
(ii)        construct and operate the said plant with due regard to ecological
and environmental considerations.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A and B of the Project against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts
A and B of the Project to be used exclusively for the said Parts of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, progress reports, studies, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for Parts A and B of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts A and B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated thereto,


﻿7
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the said Parts of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
thereto and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the said Parts
of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan allocated thereto and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds; and
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents for purposes relevant to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire, as and when needed, all such land, and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included in
the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not later than
March 31, 1976 or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree,
a program and time-table, established in consultation with the Bank, for the studies
forming Part B(1) of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all such steps as shall be necessary
to ensure the supply of gas and electricity in quantities sufficient for the efficient
operation of the Saida Plant.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. In application of Ordonnance No. 71-74 on the socialist
management of enterprises, dated November 16, 1971, the Borrower shall manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry out
its operations in accordance with sound business, financial and industrial practices
under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
qualified and competent staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate industrial and business practices.


﻿8
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and property and from time to time make all necessary repair and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering practices.
Section 4.04. (a) During the year 1978, or at such later date as shall be
mutually agreed, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a detailed cement market
study whose proposed content shall have been discussed with the Bank.
(b)   In accordance with planning principles, the Borrower shall carry out
the necessary preparatory studies before deciding to invest in cement production
expansion. Until such time as the study referred to in paragraph (a), above, is
furnished to the Bank, as part of the technical cooperation between the Bank
and the Borrower: (i) the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the said studies upon
their completion; and (ii) the Bank and the Borrower shall exchange information
and views relevant to the proposed scope and content, and the conclusions, of
the said studies.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank upon its publication
its planned investment program.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
(b)   As part of the records to be maintained pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall maintain separate accounts
for the Saida Plant.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
0


﻿9
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt and undertakes, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to grant any such lien; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the
payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank for its comments
at the dates hereinafter set forth, or at such other dates as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree: (A) a plan for the strengthening of the Borrower's general
accounting and financial planning methods, not later than December 31, 1976;
(B) a plan for the strengthening of the Borrower's cost accounting methods, not
later than December 31, 1977; and (C) a plan for the strengthening of budgeting
and cost control methods for each of the Borrower's production units and other
cost centers, not later than December 31, 1978; and (ii) implement such plans
and apply the said methods.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five
days after the end of each quarter:
(i)         quarterly consolidated financial statements of the Borrower
(balance sheet, statement of income and expenses and cash flow);
(ii)        quarterly financial statements of the Borrower for the Saida
Plant (balance sheet, statement of income and expenses, cash
flow and related statements); and
(iii)       annual forecasts of balance sheet, accounts and financing pians
for the Borrower and for the Saida Plant and any revision
thereof.
Section 5.06. The Borrower undertakes to review annually on the the basis
of its audited financial statements the prices of all the Borrower's products or
product groups and shall propose the setting of such prices at levels which shall
be equal to the average unit cost of each of the products or product group plus
a margin sufficient to allow the Borrower to cover iLs debt incurred for each such
product or product group.


﻿10
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall take all such action within its power as
shall be necessary to maintain:
(i)          a ratio of internal cash generation and of external funds of the
Borrower during any fiscal year to estimated long-term debt
service requirements in the said fiscal year as agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower;
(ii)        a ratio of internal cash generation and external funds related
to the Saida Plant during any fiscal year to long-term debt service
requirements for the said plant in the said fiscal year as agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower;
(iii)        at all times sufficient current assets to meet current liabilities
as they fall due; and
(iv)        for the Saida Plant a ratio of current assets to short-term
liabilities as agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall promptly pay to the Guarantor the
Guarantee fee referred to in Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(i)          Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
any loan contracted from    a financial institution for the
purpose of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing for such loan, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)         Subparagraph   (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)


﻿11
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that
the event specified in (i)B of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VH
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower and SNC have entered into
the agreement referred to in Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement in accordance with
the provisions of the said Section 3.01(b).
Section 7.02. The date April 7, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses arc specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INTBAFRAD                             440098
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
For the Borrower:
Soci6t6 Nationale des Mat6riaux de
Construction
17, rue Hanani
Alger
Algeria
Cable address:                          Telex:
Soci6t6 Nationale des                   52205
Mat6riaux de Construction
17 rue Hanani
Alger
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES MATERIAUX
DE CONSTRUCTION
By /s / Ait Si Mohamed
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)   Turnkey contract              12,700,000           30% of foreign
for supply and                                     expenditures
erection of Saida
Plant
(2)   Civil works for                7,100,000          25% (representing
Saida Plant under                                  the estimated
Parts A(1)(a) and                                  foreign exchange
A(l)(b) of the Pro-                                component)
ject
(3)   Materials and Sup-             6,800,000           100% of foreigi,
plies for the con-                                 expenditures or
struction of rail-                                 65% (represent-
way link under Part                               ing the estimated
A(2) of the Project                                foreign exchange
component)
(4)   Consulting services            2,200,000           100% of foreign
for engineering,                                   expenditures
supervision and
commissioning of
Saida Plant under
Part A(1) of the
Project


﻿14
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)  Technical services               900,000          100% of foreign
after commissioning                               expenditures
of Saida Plant
Part B of the Project
(6)  Consulting services              800,000          100% of foreign
for studies under                                 expenditures
Part B(1) of the
Project
(7)  About 150 silo-                8,100,000          100% of foreign
railway wagons                                    expenditures or
and about 90                                      65% (representing
trucks under                                      the estimated
Part B(2) of the                                  foreign exchange
Project                                           component)
Part C of the Project
(8)  Consulting services            4,600,000          100% of foreign
and training                                      expenditures
Unallocated
(9)  Unallocated                    2,800,000
TOTAL        46,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of a country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.


﻿15
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of tthe proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of
expenditures incurred after May 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $300,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
*        insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:      (1)   Design, construction and commissioning of a cement production
plant at Saida with a production capacity of 500,000 tons per
year of cement, including:
(a)   the acquisition, construction   and installation  of raw
material, clinker production, handling, processing and
storage equipment and facilities and of cement storage and
shipping equipment and facilities;
(b)   construction of on-site infrastructure;
(c)   training of staff to operate the plant; and
(d)   technical    services   during    design,   construction,
commissioning and initial operation.
(2)   Design and construction of off-site infrastructure including: (a)
links between the quarries and the Saida Plant; (b) a rail link
between the Guarantor's railway network and the said plant;
and (c) connection lines between the national gas and electricity
network distribution stations and the said plant.
Part B:      (1)   Studies to define the Borrower's future distribution system for
construction materials and to determine procedures for its
implementation and methods of staff training, including:
(a)   determination of the location and operating characteristics
of distribution facilities;
(b)   a detailed study of the Borrower's requirements for
equipment for the transport of construction materials
during 1976-81 and maintenance and repair facilities for
such equipment; and
(c)   the    development     of    an    integrated    national
production-transport-distribution system for cement.


﻿17
(2)   Procurement, and utilization as part of the national cement
distribution network, of the transport equipment forming the
Borrower's minimum program in its four-year plan, namely about
260 cement silo-railway wagons and about 190 20-ton trucks
and of the required maintenance equipment and facilities for
the said wagons and trucks as well as the procurement and
utilization of such additional transport and maintenance
equipment as shall be determined on the basis of the study
forming Part B(1)(b) of the Project.
Part C:    A five-year program to assist SNC in the fields of auditing, management
accounting techniques and the implementation of basic accounting
systems, primarily for industrial enterprises, including the employment
by SNC of consultants, and, with the assistance of such consultants,
practical training and upgrading of SNC personnel, and accounting and
auditing operations in Algeria.
Parts A and B of the Project are expected to be completed by December 31,
1979, and Part C is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1980                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1980                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1981                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1981                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1982                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1982                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1983                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1983                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1984                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1984                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1985                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1985                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1986                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1986                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1987                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1987                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1988                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1988                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1989                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1989                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1990                                          2,000,000
November 15, 1990                                     2,000,000
May 15, 1991                                          2,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Tine of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/2%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                 2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                 5-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                              7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                 8-1/2%


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Goods, works and services shall be procured under contracts to be awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Detailed engineering, equipment supply and erection, on-site infrastructure,
engineering and supervision of civil works and commissioning, and training, for
the Saida Plant may be procured under one turnkey contract.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Algeria may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Algeria if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes


﻿21
a value added in Algeria equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Algeria.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluat2d bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for goods, works and services estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿22
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 5
Execution of Part C of the Project
1.    SNC shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligency and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices.
2.    SNC shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and SNC for the purpose
of assisting SNC in carrying out Part C of the Project.
3.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SNC shall cause all services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part C of the Project to be used
exclusively for such Part of the Project.
4.    (a)   SNC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, quarterly and annual reports, contract documents for Part C of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   SNC shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part C of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated thereto and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan allocated thereto and the services financed
out of such proceeds.
5.    SNC shall: (i) appoint not later than June 30, 1976, or such other date
as the Bank shall agree, a full-time, qualified director for the program forming
Part C of the Project; and (ii) recruit qualified personnel in adequate number for
the said program.


