CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1185 AL
Guarantee Agreement
(SNMC Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 7, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1185 AL
Guarantee Agreement
(SNMC Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 7, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 1976, between DEMOCRATIC AND
POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Socidtd Nationale des Matriaux de Construction (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies
equivalent to forty-six million dollars ($46,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to, and in Section 1.02 of, the Loan Agreement, have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Financial and Other Covenants Regarding
Parts A and B of the Project
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
whereby the Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor a guarantee fee at the rate of
1-1/2% per annum on the amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
for Parts A and B of the Project and outstanding from time to time. Such fee
shall accrue from the respective dates on which amounts shall be so withdrawn.
Section 2.03. In the event that there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to complete Parts A and B
of the Project, the Guarantor specifically undertakes to take all steps as needed
to make available to the Borrower such funds as shall be required to complete
such Parts of the Project under terms and conditions which shall be consistent
with the provisions of Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Guarantor undertakes to take all steps necessary with a
view to setting the prices of the Borrower's products at levels which shall be
consistent with the provisions of Section 5.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. In the event that the Borrower's financial position is upset,
in particular in the event that any of the ratios set forth in Section 5.07 of the
Loan Agreement shall not be achieved in any fiscal year, or that the Borrower
shall not have sufficient current assets to meet current liabilities as they fall due,
the Guarantor specifically undertakes to take all such steps as shall be necessary
(other than provision of short-term loans) to ensure that the Borrower has available
adequate funds to achieve such ratios and meet such liabilities.
Section 2.06. The Guarantor shall take all steps to ensure the efficient
operation of the Saida Plant.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part C of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall cause SNC to carry out Part C of the
Project in conformity with the provisions set forth in Section 3.01(b) of the Loan
Agreement and in Schedule 5 to the said Agreement and shall take all steps as
shall be necessary to make available, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor undertakes that, except as the Guarantor
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no lien shall be created on any public assets
(as hereinafter defined) as security for any external debt, which will or might result
in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization, or distribution of foreign exchange.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any administrative subdivision thereof and of any agency of the
Guarantor or of any such subdivision.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿6
For the Guarantor:
Ministere des Finances
Palais du Gouvernement
Alger
Algeria
Cable address:
FINPLAN
Alger
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s / Rachid Hassam
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
0


