Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21413
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IF-N0320)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 28.21 MILLION (US$ 39 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A SECOND EMERGENCY TRANSPORT RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DECEMBER 14, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/13/2000)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Mark (KM)
KM2.22 = US$ I
US$ 0.45 = KMI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EBRD                       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC                          European Commission
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
ETRP                        Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
ICAO                        International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB                         International Competitive Bidding
IFOR                        Implementation Force
IMG                         International Management Group
ITF                        Interim Trust Fund
NCB                         National Competitive Bidding
OHR                         Office of the High Representative
PID                         Project Implementation Directorate
PMAU                        Procurement Monitoring Audit Unit
RS                          Republika Srpska
SETRP                       Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
SFOR                        Stabilization Force
SNCB                        Simplified National Competitive Bidding
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director:    Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:    Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Aymeric-Albin Meyer, ECS1N



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                11
6. Sustainability                                                                    13
7. Bank and Borrower Perfortnance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   16
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                26
Annex 8. Borrowers Contribution                                                      27
Map: IBRD 28612R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P045484                                       Project Name: TRANS RECON II
Team Leader: Aymeric-Albin Meyer                          TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 15, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TRANS RECON II                                 L/C/TFNuimber: IF-N0320
Country/Department: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                   Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways; TW - Railways; TY - Other
Transportation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/15/96                                 Effective:                    09/25/97
Appraisal:  06/15/97                                  MTR:
Approval:  08/28/97                                Closing: 06/30/2000           06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/Federation and Republika
Srpska Ministries of Transport and Communications
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country, Manager:    Christiaan J. Poortman                     Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:      Ricardo A. Halperin                        Ricardo A. Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:   Aymeric-Albin Meyer                       Enn Peter Vasur
ICR Prima?y Author:   Aymeric-Albin Meyer; Enn Peter
Vasur
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Siustainabilitv: L
institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borroiv+er Peujorniance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Introduction
The 1995 Reconstruction Prograrn for Bosnia and Herzegovina was presented to the international donor



community in December 1995: This program defined in 13 sectors the reconstruction and development
strategy to be followed as well as the priority investments to be funded, mostly by the international
community. The program included a Five Year Transport Reconstruction Program totaling US$698
million, the emergency component of which, the First Year Program, totaled US$305 million. The First
Year Program was foreseen to be implemented through the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
(ETRP) and the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (the Project). The ETRP was
launched in early 1996 in a total amount of US$149 million of which the Bank's financing (from the Trust
Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina) amounted to US$35 million. The Project, amounting to US$184 million
and to which the Bank contributed US$39 million, was conceived as a continuation of the activities
initiated under the ETRP. The objective was the rehabilitation/reconstruction of the primary transport
network countrywide.
The Project comprised two distinct and quite separate parts, viz. an adjustment component for Republika
Srpska (amounting to US$9 million) and a transport component to support reconstruction activities in the
transport sector in both Entities (amounting to US$173 million). The Bank provided a US$39 million credit
toward the costs of the Project, funding in full the adjustment component and contributing US$30 million to
support Project activities in the road sub-sector. In addition, the Bank administered US$12.5 million on
behalf of the Governments of Italy (US$2.1 million) and Japan (US$ 10.4 million) to provide additional
support to the road sub-sector. The objective of the adjustment component was to support Republika
Srpska's fiscal and trade reforms, while the objective of the transport component was the rehabilitation of
the primary transport network countrywide, and the reconstruction of the remaining key links with the rest
of Europe. This followed the completion of the implementation of the preceding project, the Emergency
Transport Reconstruction Project, which had included only the Federation (see paragraph 3.1 .ii below).
The part of the transport component not funded through Bank-administered funds was intended to be
funded through parallel financing. At the time of Board presentation, the main identified financing sources
were EC, IDA and the Entities, however a financing gap of US$89.5 million remained. As in the ETRP, it
was foreseen that this financing gap would be gradually closed over the life of the project. This part had a
modular structure with independent subprojects for which interested donors could assume financing at any
time and with different and independent implementation schedules. The Project design, the deternination of
priorities to be followed, and the identification of the activities to be included in the Project were carried out
by the Bank in cooperation with the State and Entity authorities and with other organizations and donors,
including especially the International Management Group (IMG, see below). All donors and organizations
which did not channel their funding through the Bank provided parallel financing and administrative
capacity to implement specific activities under the Project. As such, during implementation the Bank's role
was limited to implementing the Bank funded and administered adjustment and road components and to
monitoring, in an overview manner, the progress of the non Bank-financed components, in order to avoid
overlaps among the activities funded by the different donors and optimize the use of available resources.
i) Adjustment Component
The adjustment component was conceived to support Republika Srpska's fiscal and trade reforms by
creating the conditions for efficient budget formulation and execution and for the effective implementation
of trade facilitation measures. The adjustment component was prepared following the approval by the
Republika Srpska Parliament of a 1997 budget satisfactory to the Bank, and the passing of new trade and
customs policy laws, which allowed for a common trade and customs regime throughout Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The proceeds of the component were to fund acute budgetary needs, particularly social
expenditures. By supporting initial budgetary and trade facilitation reforms, this component would help
maintaining fiscal stability; create conditions conducive to implementation of deeper fiscal reforms; and
improve policy harmonization and coordination between the State and its two constituent Entities, the
-2 -



Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. This component constituted the first
adjustment assistance to Republika Srpska and was perceived as the first in a series of adjustment
operations designed to support Bosnia and Herzegovina's structural reforms. The adjustment component
was fully financed by IDA for an amount of US$9 million equivalent.
This adjustment component has been unusual in two ways: (i) it was included in an transport operation; and
(ii) it supported budgetary and trade facilitation reforrns while helping to solve urgent fiscal needs in
Republika Srpska. With the benefit of hindsight, we should acknowledge that this one shot operation with
funds disbursed in one payment immediately upon effectiveness had no significant impact on the
implementation of the Project or on the sustainable improvement of customs operations or trading
conditions.
ii) Transport Component
The objective of the transport component was to remove critical infrastructure bottlenecks; resume
operation of major transport networks; and ensure sustainable development of the transport sector and
related institutions. The specific objective of the Bank-administered part of the Project was to assist the
Borrower in further rehabilitating the main road network while supporting the progressive re-establishment
of adequate road maintenance activities in both Entities.
It had been recognized from the outset that the ETRP had to be followed by another project in order to meet
Bosnia and Herzegovina's reconstruction needs. In the sense that the Project was a continuation of an
ongoing effort, it posed few problems which had not been encountered earlier and for which solutions and
arrangements had been developed. Implementation arrangements, the nature and level of coordination
needed between the different donors, as well as the functioning of the Project Implementation Directorates
(PIDs), their internal organization, their relationship to the relevant ministries, were such issues for which
solutions had already been found. Two important new developments were, however, included in the Project.
One was the inclusion of Republika Srpska and the other was a focus on the establishment/strengthening of
an adequate road management capacity, under the Bank-administered part of the Project. The Republika
Srpska inclusion, which had been foreseen but had not materialized under the ETRP, was adequate. S
upporting the creation of adequate Entity road management capacities was seen as a basic prerequisite for
future sustainable development in the road sector. Although most reasonable, it was however a risky
requirement to introduce into the project since there was an absence of basic political understanding,
especially in the Federation. The new focus on institution building also turned out to be difficult, given the
emergency nature of the project. It also turned out to be difficult to reconcile the objectives of institution
building and reconstruction in an emergency reconstruction project. To support institution building,
attention was focused during project preparation and appraisal on reaching agreements with the Federation
on the passing of necessary laws and on the subsequent creation of a functioning Federation Road
Administration. Discussion with both Entities also focussed on the minimum annual budgetary allocations
for road maintenance. This approach was based on the widespread perception at that time that the
international community had the capacity to quickly influence and shape policies and decisions. Experience
since then has shown that more time than expected is necessary in order to reach agreements between the
two Entities and within the Federation. For example, in the transport sector, while there is a general sense
of progress having been made on all fronts, there are still today three railway companies operating a 1,000
km network while traffic agreements have yet to be reached between the companies and traffic still has to
resume on a significant scale. Also the law on roads in the Federation presented to Parliament in March
1998 has yet to be approved.
The size of the project's financing gap, US$89.5 million or about 50 % of total project cost (excluding the
adjustment component) was a potential problem. Given the modular structure of the project, and hence the
- 3-



independent nature of the components, as well as the positive experience from the implementation of the
ETRP, the existence of such a gap at the time of appraisal and approval was considered realistic and
acceptable.
Within the context of the transport component it is worthwhile to recognize that although the reconstruction
overall has been very successful, it is only now that the country is starting to emerge from this emergency
phase. Up till now all efforts have been focused on emergency reconstruction. Hence, relatively little
attention has been given to describing indirect effects of what has been implemented, providing statistical
summaries, etc. Such activities are now starting through follow-up projects which will have a different
focus than the previous ones and through initiatives such as the JICA financed Study on the Transport
Master Plan in Bosnia and Herzegovina of which the Final Report is expected in February, 2001. At
present many interesting questions pertaining to the transport sector, such as hard numbers on the
development of the local construction industry, employment generated by transport reconstruction, various
unit costs, etc. are not available and only qualitative statements can be given.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Conmponents:
The Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (SETRP) included the following components:
i) Adjustment Component. US$ 9 million to Republika Srpska to support key macroeconomic policy
reforms. The proceeds supported the approved 1997 budget in line with agreed budget priorities that
included essential social expenditures and debt servicing obligations. The component provided needed fiscal
resources that helped alleviate the acute financing shortfall of 1997.
ii) Investment Component. The investment component, US$ 175 million, included the subcomponents
which were the most serious transport constraints not covered by the then ongoing ETRP as follows:
-State of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Items of an intemational nature, including the rehabilitation of the
Sava/Una river bridges (12% of total cost) and of the Sarajevo Airport (4%);
-Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Rehabilitation of roads and bridges (16%), rehabilitation of
Mostar Airport (3%), support to the railway (16%) and to the urban transport (2%) sectors, and provision
of technical assistance (3%); and
-Republika Srpska. Road and bridge rehabilitation (22%), supply of construction/maintenance equipment
(6%), support to the railway (6%), and to the urban transport (6%) sectors, supply of navigation equipment
for Banja Luka Airport (1%), and provision of technical assistance (3%).
The Bank-administered funds (US$51.5 million) were intended for: (i) funding of the adjustment
component; (ii) rehabilitation of roads, reconstruction of bridges and related mine clearing and technical
assistance, within the Federation and Republika Srpska; (iii) supply of maintenance equipment to
Republika Srpska; and (iv)support to the establishment, within the Federation, and the strengthening,
within Republika Srpska, of the road administrations. In addition to the Bank administered funding, there
was funding by a number of other financing agencies as detailed in Annex 2.
Implementation/Supervision
The pattems established during the implementation of the ETRP were largely continued. From among the
main donors, only the Bank continued using the PID in the Federation while a new one was established in
Republika Srpska, both PIDs within the corresponding Entity Ministry of Transport and Communications.
The U.S. and the European Commission (EC) used mainly their own agencies and some funding was also
-4 -



implemented through the International Management Group (IMG). The IMG is an entity, funded by
certain members of the EC (in particular, the Government of Italy), which: (i) organizes the preparation of
damage assessment reports in the infrastructure sectors to be presented to the donor community; (ii)
coordinates donors activities in the reconstruction of the infrastructure sectors, especially through the
organization of regular Task Force Meetings (see below); (iii) implements reconstruction activities on
behalf of certain donors; and (iv) supports institutional capacity building. Overall implementation progress
under the Project was supervised primarily by IMG and the Bank.
Coordination
Coordination took place at two levels.
During project preparation. the lists of priority interventions were drawn up and agreed upon with the local
and foreign stakeholders active in the reconstruction of the transport sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Once the scope of activities to be included under the Project was clearly defined, consultations were held
within the donor community to raise funding to cover the costs of the Project, while avoiding overlaps.
Based on the conclusions reached at these consultations, each donor could then pursue its activities with
little coordination with the other donors. Overall coordination was ensured mainly by IMG and the Bank.
During project implementation, coordination activities were kept to the minimum, which was possible
thanks to: (i) the design of the Project which was composed of sub-projects which were funded
independently; and (ii) the limited size of the community involved in the reconstruction of the transport
sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, community in which informal contacts and coordination played an
important part. Coordination included preparation of updates on implementation progress, discussions on
issues encountered by the various actors, and fund-raising activities. The basic coordination was ensured
by the IMG through: (a) the maintenance and update of a database of implementation progress, status of
donors' commitments and unfunded activities; and (b) the organization of regular Transport Task Force
meetings, which periodically invited all local representatives of entities active in the reconstruction of the
transport sector to share information and discuss issues encountered. On a general level there was a need
for regular updates on implementation progress and remaining activities to be financed. This was provided
by the donor conferehces co-chaired by the EC and the Bank and supported by documents provided for
these occasions.
3.4 Revised Components:
Apart from some modification in the distribution of financing of some items (see paragraph 4.1 and Annex
2) caused by availability of alternative financing and the positive cost developments which allowed more
contracts than foreseen to be executed, all the basic assumptions and priorities remained.
3.5 Qialitn at Entry:
The project's objectives were fully compatible with the overall reconstruction program and with government
priorities as discussed and agreed with the governments and formalized at donors' meetings. The
assumptions and arrangements for implementation for the investment component were fully in line with the
existing and unfolding situation and capacities. This has been bome out by the smooth implementation of
the Project's physical components. The implementation arrangements were in place (the PIDs functioning)
and the bidding documents for the first season's bids were ready by credit approval. Although there was
already a draft law on roads as well as an assessment of the schedule of the legislative process, for the road
administration development in the Federation, there was, quite naturally for a process requiring
-5 -



parliamentary debate and approval, no agreed schedule and commitment for the approval of the law.
Overall, quality at entry is rated satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Otutcome/achievement of objective:
Note: When commenting on the outcomes/achievements it is necessary to make a distinction between the
parts of the Project supported by the various donors and the Bank-administered part of the Project. As
explained above, each donor organized the implementation and supervision for the partfor which it
providedfinancing. Bank supervision missions followed general implementation progress under the
Project, and in particular the Bank-administered part.
Overall, the Project has successfully met most of its objectives and achieved the results expected. Under
the adjustment component, the objective of supporting both initial budgetary and trade reforms and
providing fiscal resources that help alleviate the acute needs has been fully met. Under the transport
component, the financing gap can be considered as closed (see below), critical infrastructure bottlenecks
have been removed and operation of major transport networks resumed. The emergency reconstruction
phase in the Transport Sector has been completed. However, more remains to be done to ensure a
sustainable development of parts of the transport sector. In the civil aviation, public transportation, and in
the road subsectors in Republika Srpska, necessary institutions and agreements are now in place to ensure
sustainable operations (see paragraph 4.2.b). Unfortunately, this is not the case in the railway sector and in
the road sector in the Federation (see paragraph 4.2 b for the Railways and paragraph 4.5 for the
Federation Road Administration).
The Bank-administered part of the Project (amounting to over US$42 million) was implemented basically
over 30 months, which adhered to the schedule established originally. The one area where one would have
hoped for more to be achieved is the creation/strengthening of the Road Administration and provision for
road maintenance funding in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
At the same time, it is recognized in hindsight that, given the persistence of the political divergence within
the Federation to date, this would have probably required joint efforts on the side of the Bank and the
intemational community, efforts which were beyond any individual sector. Finally, it must be noted that
counterpart financing to the civil works contracts has not been provided by the Entity Governments on a
timely basis. Taking into account the emergency nature of the Project and its primary focus on
reconstruction, the Project's outcome is rated as satisfactory.
Closing the Financing Gap
Contrary to the Bank-administered part, as of today, there is about US$30 million worth of activities
originally foreseen under the whole Project, for which funding has not been provided. About two-third of
this financing gap relates to the railway component of the Project. This component aimed at improving
technical and safety conditions as well as maintenance capacity on the network. Thanks to the activities
undertaken under the ETRP and by IFOR/SFOR, operations were already possible, by the end of project
preparation, on most of the network, although on minimum technical and safety standards. However, it
had been recommended by the Bank to the donor community not to provide funding under this component
unless a workable agreement could be reached between the 3 railway companies to allow trains to run
across the network on a reasonable and commercial basis. Such an agreement has so far failed to be
reached, and present levels of traffic remain very low. These two factors have certainly contributed to the
lack of interest that the donor community could have had in supporting further rehabilitation activities in
the railway sector.
-6 -



On the other hand, about US$30 million worth of activities not foreseen originally to be undertaken under
the Project have received funding. These activities include rehabilitation of additional intemational bridges
between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as further rehabilitation of the road network. While
these activities fit perfectly within the scope of the Project, they had not been initially included, as: (i) it
was estimated, during project preparation, that not more than US$90 million could be raised from the donor
community, which already meant to present a project for approval with a 50% financing gap; and (ii) a
certain balance had to be maintained between the different components to be included under the Project.
Finally, there also remains a fmnancing gap of about US$5 million each under the civil aviation and urban
transport components. However, overall Project objectives have been achieved under the civil aviation and
urban transport components (see paragraph below). As such, the financing gap under the Project may be
considered closed.
4.2 Outputs b} components:
Adjustment Component
The totality of the funds for the adjustment component were disbursed upon effectiveness. The adjustment
component provided much needed support to the 1997 budget in Republika Srpska, which was approved in
line with Bank recommendations. As the component was prepared on the basis of activities which had been
completed by Republika Srpska before Board approval, achievement under this component is considered
highly satisfactory.
Transport Component
a. Activities under Bank-administered Funds.
For both road and bridge rehabilitation, progress was very satisfactory throughout project implementation.
About 190 km of road sections and six bridges have been rehabilitated in the Federation. In Republika
Srpska, about 160 km of road sections and three bridges have been rehabilitated. Thanks to decreased
construction costs (see paragraph 5.4) and additional funding provided through Trust Funds, about 100 km
of road sections in addition to what was originally planned under the project have been rehabilitated, and 9
bridges instead of the 5 foreseen. Under Trust Fund financing, four bridges are still being rehabilitated with
completion foreseen by the end of December, 2000. Finally, 15 tipper trucks have been delivered to
Republika Srpska.
b. Activities funded by other donors.
1.    Road and Bridge Rehabilitation.
This component has been funded in full and, in addition to the Bank-administered part, about 600 km of
road sections and 7 bridges have been rehabilitated. Construction and maintenance equipment has been
provided to Republika Srpska as foreseen. Tunnel and land slides rehabilitation have been included under
road rehabilitation contracts or undertaken by SFOR and/or Entity Governments. Only one major
rehabilitation contract remains to be carried out (the Capljina bridge, with funding now available).
Achievement under this component is thus rated highly satisfactory.
2.    International Bridges between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Within the scope of the Project, the Gradiska, Dubica and Brod bridges have been rehabilitated, which
brings to 5 (out of a total of 10 bridges damaged during the hostilities) the number of international bridges
rebuilt permanently between the two countries, taking into account the Brcko rail bridge and the
Orasje-Zupanja road bridge which were rehabilitated under the ETRP. With respect to the rehabilitation of
- 7 -



the 3 other bridges included in the Project, rehabilitation has started on the Samac bridge, while funding for
the rehabilitation of the 2 remaining bridges has been committed. Achievement under this component is
rated satisfactory.
3.     Railways.
As mentioned earlier, only about 50% of the activities foreseen under this component have received
funding. Activities funded have focused on further track and bridge rehabilitation and restoration of
maintenance activities. There has been very little support to re-electrification of lines, which, in a context
of low traffic and little availability of electric locomotives, can be understood. There has also been little
support for the rehabilitation of signaling and telecommunication systems. While low traffic can be
handled with little signaling and telecommunication devices, more attention should have been given to this
component. In addition, progress has been very slow in agreeing on arrangements which would ensure
operations across the country on a reasonable technical and economic basis. A fundamental reason for this
is the still largely unresolved question of the relationship between the different railway companies. There
are de facto three railway companies, two in the Federation and one in RS, which all are in serious
lossmaking positions with subsidies in 1999 estimated to be more than US$15 million, and a deficit of over
US$40 million. The situation is deemed unsatisfactory and efforts have been undertaken to improve the
organizations and their cooperation. In February 1998, a Memorandum of Understanding was concluded
concerning the organization of railways and regulation of inter-Entity traffic under the auspices of the
Office of the High Representative (OHR). OHR has also taken the lead in establishing the Joint Railway
Public Corporation which is to handle a number of questions of common operational interest, and examine
ways and means to improve and enhance inter-Entity and international railway traffic. Despite the
considerable efforts that have been invested into these initiatives, the practical results on the ground up till
now have been quite limited. Achievement under this component is rated unsatisfactory.
4.     Civil Aviation.
As a result of the implementation of both the ETRP and the Project, as well as the IFOR/SFOR activities
to ensure the operationality of strategic transport services and networks, the 3 main airports in Bosnia and
Herzegovina are now serviceable to a civilian standard. Under the Project, financing has been provided for
the rehabilitation of the Mostar control tower, further rehabilitation of the Sarajevo airport passenger
terminal, and supply of navigational equipment and lighting to the Banja Luka airport. The organizational
structure is established and working. The main organization is the Bosnia and Herzegovina Department of
Civil Aviation in addition to which each Entity has its own Civil Aviation Department. The civil aviation
situation is also characterized by the strong military (SFOR) influence, but overall ICAO rules and
procedures apply. The air space and air traffic control services are regulated in compliance with the
relevant international rules and agreements (ICAO, Eurocontrol, SFOR). The ownership of the airports is
complex and not quite settled, but generally the airports are either Entity or canton/district owned. This
unsettled ownership does not have much negative consequences for the management and operations in the
short run but in a longer perspective this question will need a resolution. Aviation safety is not reported to
be an issue. The objective of resuming operation of major transport systems has been achieved, and as
such, achievement under this component is rated satisfactory.
5.    Urban Transport.
About 120 buses and mini-buses, as well as tools for workshops have been delivered. These buses are used
mainly in the Sarajevo area, but also in other cities across the country. The basic needs of the major urban
transport companies seem fulfilled. Achievement under this component is rated satisfactory. These
companies are mainly owned by the municipalities. Certainly future organizational rationalizations and
consolidations will be necessary, but overall it is considered that the present institutional and managerial
arrangements provide a reasonable basis for present operations, taking into account the general economic
-8 -



and political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
6.    Mine Clearing.
US$ 1.1 million was originally foreseen under the Project for mine clearing at the construction sites.
However, as it turned out, lack of access to the construction sites due to mines was not a major problem
that had to be confronted within the Project, and as such, funding was not required for this component. The
reasons were that various other initiatives, including local initiatives, SFOR interventions as well as the
Bank's Emergency Landmine Clearing Project were available to handle this problem. Under the
Bank-administered part of the Project, the landmine question at the sites was competently handled by the
PIDs at the planning and design stage to eliminate landmines or verify their absence. Thus, no contracts
were delayed by mines, nor were there any accidents caused by mines in the project.
7.    Institution Building
This component has been providing financing to the PIDs, first under the Bank-administered part of the
Project and then under the Capacity Building Program implemented and monitored by IMG. The Capacity
Building Program is a continuation of IMG's successful efforts to support institution building, project
implementation and provide informational and operational support to the donor community in the transport
sector. Little assistance was provided to the Entity Road Directorates as it appeared that: (i) in the
Federation, no agreement could be found on an organizational structure and specific duties of a Road
Administration; and (ii) in Republika Srpska, allocations from the Government were adequate to allow a
proper functioning of the Road Administration. In addition, a Transport Master Plan is being completed.
Achievement under this component is rated satisfactory, taking into account the fact that the difficulties
encountered in the Federation with respect to the creation of a Road Administration reflect a generalized
divergence of opinion between Bosniacs and Croats, which could not be resolved under a transport
operation.
8.     Technical Assistance.
All activities foreseen under this component have been supported. These consisted mainly of: (i) support to
implementation and coordination under the Project, provided by the IMG; and (ii) financing of feasibility
studies, design and construction supervision under the Project. The provision of this technical assistance
has been essential in ensuring a smooth implementation of the Project. Achievement under this component
is rated as highly satisfactory.
c. Outputs under the First Year Transport Reconstruction Program.
Note: As explained in para 3.1. ii above, the First Year Transport Reconstruction Program denotes the
first phase of the Five Year Transport reconstruction Program. The name is somewhat misleading since
there was no intention of a one year implementation period, but it was foreseen that two projects, the
Emergency Transport Reconstruction and a follow-up project, the Second Emergency Transport Project,
would be needed to be prepared within thefirst year following the end of the hostilities. The First Year
Transport Reconstruction Program can thus be taken to describe the sum of the activities under these two
projects.
Thanks to the combined activities of the donor community with funding under the ETRP and the Project,
most of the emergency needs defined in 1995 as the First Year Transport Reconstruction Program have
been met: (i) a significant part of the main and regional road networks can be considered rehabilitated
today, as 100% of the needs identified in 1995 have been met, with 60 bridges located on the main and
regional road networks repaired and/or rehabilitated, and road maintenance carried out on 1,600 km of the
main network and 750 km of the regional network; (ii) the Sarajevo, Mostar and Banja Luka airports
-9-



operate to civilian standards; (iii) trains can run on most of the network, although at minimum safety and
technical standards; and (iv) public transportation has resumed country-wide, the tram system in Sarajevo
is in operation, and 300 buses and mini-buses procured, meeting about 70% of the needs identified in 1995.
Also, the rebuilding of the local contracting and consulting industry has developed strongly as evidenced by
the degree of competition, the ability to submit correct bids on studies and works, and to execute works in a
timely fashion in a technically competent way.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econonmic rate of return:
The ERR for each of the sections in the road rehabilitation subcomponent was calculated at more than 30%
at appraisal, for those road sections funded under the Bank Credit. This was based on an assumed traffic
growth of about 3-4% annually and vehicle operating costs developed from the Albania-adapted HDM III
model. It was most reasonable and justifiable to use the Albania adapted parameters since conditions in
many respects were deemed to be similar, particularly for the vehicle operating costs, and also since Bosnia
and Herzegovina specific information in this area was missing. However, for future economic analyses,
these assumptions should be checked to verify the degree of concurrence with actual numbers which are
now starting to become available. Within the ongoing Bosnia and Herzegovina Transport Master Plan
study, a limited traffic count has been carried out during the summer of 2000. Not all the road sections
evaluated at appraisal were included in the count, but those which were (10 out of 15) showed significant
increases of up to 95%, in comparison with the traffic forecasts used for the ERR calculations used at
appraisal. The general impression of a very strong increase in traffic during the last few years is thus
substantiated. The actual rehabilitation costs were lower than those assumed ( see paragraph 5.4 below).
Using the new values for these two factors while keeping all other assumptions unchanged (including traffic
on sections where no counts were carried out), increases the ERRs considerably, from an average of 42.6 to
57.0% (see Annex 3). The main determinant of this increase is the traffic which accounts for, on average,
about 80% of the increase.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n. a.
4.5 Institutional developnment impact:
Re-establishment of adequate Road Management Capacity
One objective of the Bank-administered part of the Project was to support a progressive re-establishment of
adequate road maintenance activities countrywide. This has been interpreted and agreed to mean the
development of the road administrations in the two Entities. According to the Dayton agreements, each
Entity is to be responsible for its road network. This development has shown very mixed results. In the
Federation, progress has been limited. The basic legal framework, especially the Law on Roads which is a
prerequisite to formally establish the road administration with its structures and duties, has not yet been
passed by the Parliament of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The discussions about such a law
have been ongoing for several years but without any concrete results yet. Such a seemingly technical law
entails consequences for questions such as centralization vs decentralization, the role of the cantons, the
allocation of tax revenues, and the like. As such, this will require agreements about fundamental political
questions in the Federation. In the meantime a road administration has been formally put in place but it has
been able to perform only minimal duties, such as proposing allocations for budgetary discussions and
processing contracts for maintenance activities on a largely non-competitive basis and without a clear
setting of priorities. As the Road Administration does not have an agreed stature and resources, such basic
functions as an agreed upon funding mechanism, traffic counts, road condition databases, maintenance and
construction planning, are also lacking.
- 10 -



In contrast, the situation in Republika Srpska, as far as the road administration is concerned, has developed
much better. Without the political constraints which exist in the Federation, development of the road
management capacity has been much more of a technical and administrative nature. The road
administration is functioning in a normal fashion and although there are improvements to be made and
developments to pursue, it is now a question of improving and developing what exists. There is a funding
mechanism in place similar to that of a road fund which allocates resources based on fuel taxes, vehicle
registration and transit fees, as well as fees on land adjacent to roads. The PID, which administers the
project and handles the road administration's contacts with donors, has in a real sense ceased to exist
independently and is now an integral part of the road administration. Thus, overall the institutional
development as concems the road administration in Republika Srpska can be described as highly
satisfactory.
Timely payment of counterpartfunds
The Credit Agreement foresaw that 10% of the civil works contracts be paid by the Entities. The Entity
governments have been slow to allocate money for these payments which in effect has meant that the
contractors have been forced to extend a corresponding amount of credit to the governments. The situation
did improve, however, during implementation so that at the end the counterpart payments due corresponded
more or less to the performance guarantee due to the contractors one year after completion of the works.
Republika Srpska has performed better than the Federation in the question of counterpart payments .
Availability of adequate resources for Road Maintenance
It was agreed between the Bank and the Entities, that the Entities would each allocate US$ 15 million
annually for road maintenance. As the estimated requirements for a reasonable development were several
times higher, this amount was seen as a minimum and as an indication of the governments' commitment.
The necessary allocation was estimated at about US$25 million. From about US$ 10 million in each Entity
in 1998, the trends in allocations have diverged markedly in both Entities. In the Federation there has been
a marked decrease with the 2000 actual allocation estimated to no more than US$6 million, in Republika
Srpska the annual allocation has been increasing and is anticipated to reach US$20 million in 2000.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Note: this part does not deal with the adjustment component of the Project as this was a one time
transfer with conditions for disbursement met prior to Project approval.
One issue which has caused implementation delays under the transport component of the Project has been
the sometimes irnportant time lags between committed and disbursed amounts from donors. While a certain
lag is inherent in the way the donor community works, when the time from when funding is secured till
when works are underway or completed stretches into several years, implementation and outcome are
affected. As an illustration, the table below shows the implementation performance of the main donors in
the road and bridge sub-sector. The data is taken from the IMG database as of September 2000. As can be
seen, the Bank has been, over the 1996-2000 period, the main actor in the roads and bridges sub-sector,
and among one of the most efficient.
- 11 -



Implementation Performance in the Road and Bridge Sub-Sectors
Committed (US$ million)   Contracts under way or completed
European Union                   48.2                          45%
United States                    20.3                          100%
Japan (World Bank-               10.0                          100%
administered Trust Fund)
EBRD                             19.5                           51%
World Bank                       60.4                          100%
TOTAL                           158.4                          77%
This table reflects a number of factors, many of which are outside govermment control. The intemal
procedures and time taken from a decision in principle to the start of implementation, the arrangements for
implementation, the discussions and interaction with authorities from Bosnia and Herzegovina, all
contribute to the disparity in implementation progress. Another factor which has constantly affected
implementation has been the continued, although decreasing, reliance on NATO troups providing
temporary bridges for bypasses during bridge reconstruction. Although this cooperation has been generally
working very well, there have been instances where SFOR has had to change its priorities so that the
temporary structures could not be made available as foreseen, thereby forcing a
rescheduling/rearrangement of the works.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As mentioned earlier (see paragraphs 4.2 b and 4.5), institutional development with respect to the road and
railway sector management and financing, as well as timely payment of local counterpart funds are issues
which clearly have been subject to govemment control.
5.3 Factors generally stibject to implementing agency control:
Under the Bank-administered part of the Project, the PIDs have continued to perform very well and this has
been a major factor for fast and efficient implementation. The PIDs have built on the experiences from the
ETRP and improved its organization and procedures. The continuity in both the project staff and a large
part of the staff in the implementing agencies has enabled the PID to develop a considerable source of
knowledge of bidding procedures, contract administration and implementation.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The comments below deal only with the Bank-administered part of the Project, as very little information is
available regarding the actual costs of the activities carried out by the other cofmanciers due to the
decentralized implementation structure of the Project. As the Project and the ETRP were to some extent
carried out in parallel, the comments pertaining to costs are very similar. Actual costs turned out to be well
below original estimates. This applies especially for road reconstruction where, under the
Bank-administered part of the Project, actual contract values were about 15% lower than estimates. This
difference has several explanations. The main one is that competition works, it does reduce costs, especially
in a situation where the number of contracts on which to bid was limited, compared to an increasing
number of contractors able to meet the bidding documents qualification criteria. Another is that the cost
estimates have not followed the decrease in prices caused by competition, although a lag in this respect is
natural. Lower than expected contract prices did not introduce any major problems since, given the extent
of the maintenance backlog and the nature of road rehabilitation, additional works can be carried out if
- 12 -



more funds are available. In certain cases, while bid prices remained lower than cost estimates, the final
cost of bridge rehabilitation has been higher than the initial contract price, as it appeared during
rehabilitation that some works, not foreseen initially, had to be undertaken. The main reason for these
increases is the nature of bridge rehabilitation works itself, compounded by the fact that, in some cases,
bidders were relying on estimated bill of quantities prepared before the bridge site was declared clear of
mines, which impeded engineers to access certain parts of the sites.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the adjustment component is rated as likely, as this component has assisted Republika
Srpska to improve its budgetary planning and execution practices and to engage in reforms aimed at
implementation of uniform customs policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These initial efforts strengthened
the institutional capacity for carrying forward more complicated reform programs, under the Bank's
subsequent public finance adjustment operations; under the EC-funded CAFAO program, in the field of
customs reforms; and under the Bank's Trade and Transport Facilitation Program in South-East Europe
(TTFSE), in the field of trade and transport facilitation.
The Project as conceived and presented was an emergency operation. As such it was primarily concerned
with the physical reconstruction of the damages caused by the war. As the reconstruction of the direct
damages has been largely completed or is underway by now, the concept of sustainability for this aspect is
not fully relevant. However, as this was the second emergency project in the transport sector, it was amply
recognized that it was central to the future of the transport sector that functioning institutions be developed.
In the road sector, the creation of road administrations, capable of ensuring that the necessary tasks be set
up, as well as appropriate levels and mechanisms for funding road maintenance was important. As
described above, the development has been quite different in the two Entities. It is reasonable to assume
that in Republika Srpska the conditions, including government commitment, policy environment, and
fmancing arrangements as well as managerial and technical effectiveness and competencies, are such that
the sustainability can be rated as highly likely. In contrast, in the Federation, the basic political agreements
and legal framework have not yet been arrived at. Sustainability therefore, interpreted as the probability as
a rapid achievement of a proper institutional setting, must be rated as unlikely. Taking into account the
two Entities, and the fact that preparation of a new Road Project focusing on institution building has
started (see paragraph 6.2), the sustainability rating has been given as the average of the two above ratings,
i.e. as likely. Implicit in this overall rating is an assumption that, even if not in the immediate future, the
situation, especially in the Federation, will improve with respect to legislation and funding, as both the
passing of the Law on Roads in the Federation, and adequate budgetary allocations in both Entities have
been made conditions for the appraisal of the new road project being prepared (see paragraph 6.2 below).
In the railway sector, taking into account the poor progress achieved so far, and the fact that reaching an
agreement on railway operation and management across the country would only begin to address the issues
faced by the railway sector (e.g. very low traffic levels, overstaffing, inefficiency of operations),
sustainability must be rated, at this stage, as unlikely.
In the civil aviation and urban transport sectors, institutions are in place and functioning. Although more is
needed to improve efficiency of operations and administrations, sustainability is rated as highly likely in
these two sectors.
- 13-



6.2 Transition arrangenment to regular operations:
As the emergency reconstruction in the transport sector has been completed and as it is now five years after
the end of the war, more long term and conventional development issues will dominate. Although
institutional development has been recognized as vital since immediately after the war and components to
this effect have been included in both of the emergency transport reconstruction projects, the results have
been mixed and incomplete for reasons which are varied and discussed in other parts of the ICR. The issue
of institution building remains central if sustainable development is to take place and if the considerable
efforts and investments made during reconstruction are to be safeguarded. It is also clear that the time
horizon foreseen in the Project for institution building in the road sector was too short and did not have the
necessary prerequisites under the prevailing circumstances. A follow up transport project has therefore
been included in the Bank's lending program to continue and build upon what was started and achieved
during the project. The new project is planned to focus on institution building and development in the road
sector. The main issues at this stage are the needs to:
*   create a functioning road administration in the Federation;
*   strengthen the Entities road administrations;
*   provide adequate budget allocations to road maintenance;
*   increase efficiency of road maintenance contracting;
*   create an adequate project evaluation capacity; and
*   coordinate necessary activities at the state level.
In addition, to enhance the benefits to road transportation resulting from the implementation of the project,
the Bank prepared a Trade and Transport Facilitation Project in Southeastern Europe (TFFSE) of which
Bosnia and Herzegovina is part. The TFFSE aims basically at increasing the efficiency of customs
administrations throughout Southeastern Europe, so as to decrease especially freight transit time in this
region, an issue which has become critical since the break up of the Former Yugoslav Republic.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The identification of the Project was based on the agreed upon 1995 Reconstruction Program (see
paragraph 3.1 .ii). In defining the components, the Project took into account the actual developments but
maintained its general thrust and definition and was thus consistent with Bank as well as international
community strategy and priorities. Preparation took place in close cooperation with the relevant authorities
in Bosnia and Herzegovina and with other international organizations, particularly OHR, EC, EBRD, and
IMG. This close cooperation was much facilitated by the fact that good relations had already been
established through the ongoing ETRP and that the task manager was based in Sarajevo with close and
practically daily contact with all partners.
Appraisal took place in January 1997, following a preparation mission in October of 1996. There were a
few issues of a technical nature but the discussions dealt mainly with institutional development, such as
financing levels and mechanisms for road maintenance and, of course, the set up/development of the road
administrations. One issue which proved particularly sensitive was the distribution of the credit funds
between the Entities. After this issue had been resolved, negotiations started in April 1997. After two days
of negotiations it appeared however that the Federation could not accept the distribution and the
negotiations were adjourned. Bank staff and management showed great ingenuity in finding a solution to
this problem. It was eventually agreed to allocate an additional US$5 million to the Federation-part of the
Bank Credit foreseen for the Emergency Natural Gas Project which was still under preparation at that time.
- 14 -



In addition, as mentioned earlier, just before finalization of the Credit documents, an adjustment component
of US$9 million for Republika Srpska was added to the Credit. The Board approved the credit in August
and it became effective in September of 1997. The central role played by the Bank in the preparation of the
Project, the close cooperation with the authorities and the donor community, the definition of the project in
a program form to assist other donors, the speed and consistency of developing the project and the ability to
constructively resolve difficult issues would argue for a satisfactory rating of the Bank during the project
lending and appraisal phases.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision routines which had been started with the ETRP were further elaborated during project
implementation. The PIDs became gradually more and more familiar with the type of information needed
by the Bank and the Bank missions became more familiar with the situations and particularities in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. What helped very much was the continuity of staff on both sides. Two supervision
missions a year were fielded regularly. The reporting from the implementing agencies was consistent and,
when necessary, problems were reported in the supervision reports which were read and acted upon by
management. Overall, there was good cooperation between the authorities, the Bank and other donors.
In 1999, the project's supervision was evaluated by the Bank Quality Assurance Group and was found to
be highly satisfactory. The project team was recognized by the Bank's managing directors for its
supervision efforts. Based on these evaluations and opinions, the Bank's supervision is rated highly
satisfactory. This can also be justified in a comparison with the achievements in the sector as a whole as
illustrated by the table in paragraph 5. 1. Even if such comparisons are inherently difficult as the conditions
and project components are not identical for all donors, the comparison nevertheless shows that the Bank
has been fast and efficient in comparison with other major donors.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Considering the above, overall Bank performance can be rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Note: the following sections evaluate the overall performance of the Borrower only in relation to the
Bank-administered part of the Project. With respect to the project components financed by other donors,
it has been generally observed that, while the Borrower has been involved in the identification of specific
activities, their involvement in donors'project preparation and implementation has been limited. One of
the reasons has been the fact that most donor-funded activities were also donor implemented.
The Borrower participated in a very constructive and cooperative manner in project preparation. The one
negative aspect was the delay which was caused by a change in position regarding the distribution of the
funds between the Entities and which led to a delay in project effectiveness. Overall, the Borrowers'
performance is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implenmentation performance:
The Borrower was represented through the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The
Ministry was involved in general project and policy issues. Although many of the problems that arose were
not within the competency of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Govemment but rather of the Entity
Governments, the involvement of the Ministry proved most valuable in raising the questions and finding
ways to pursue them. The Entity Governments were represented by the respective ministries of transport
and communications. They were the main interlocutors regarding issues such as institutional development
and financial resources. A number of questions dealing with proposals for modifications and changes to
- 15-



contracts, ideas for new components, etc. were discussed and resolved efficiently on that level. That some
of the central issues have not found a satisfactory solution is not a reflection on the willingness and
capabilities of these ministries, but rather a recognition of the deeply political nature of these issues which
can be resolved only through discussions at the highest political levels. The implementation performance is
judged satisfactory.
7.6 Implementinig Agency:
The implementation agencies were the PIDs, one in each Entity reporting to the respective Ministry of
Transport and Communications. In Republika Srpska the PID became quickly an integral part of the Road
Administration whereas in the Federation it was a separate organization. Both PIDs have performed very
efficiently and the most obvious proof of this is that the project was completed on time and within budget.
The foreign technical assistance which was available at the beginning of the project in both PIDs was after
some time considered no longer necessary and both operated from then on with only local staff. In addition
to the activities funded under the Bank-administered part of the Project, the PIDs have also administered
works funded under an EBRD loan (as part of the ETRP). The frequent contract audits conducted by the
PMAU (Project Monitoring and Audit Unit set up by the Bank in collaboration with the authorities of
Bosnia and Herzegovina) has verified the proper and correct functioning of the PIDs. Their performance is
evaluated as highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower per]brmnance:
Overall borrower performance for the Bank component of the project is judged as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
* Continuity of Involvement. For the Borrower as well as the Bank, the staff involved was practically the
same since the start of the Bank's activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such continuity often greatly
facilitates operations and it is of particular importance in a situation such as in Bosnia and Herzegovina
with its unconventional government structures and particular problems.
* Project Implementation Directorates. In an emergency situation where speedy implementation is crucial
and where established institutions do not exist or where their performance is uncertain, it makes sense to
create special organizations for project implementation which can focus all their attention on the task at
hand without being diverted by other considerations. From this perspective the PIDs have proven most
useful and appropriate. However, they should be seen as transitory arrangements only, and be integrated
into more established administrative structures as soon as feasible. This has already taken place in
Republika Srpska and a logical step in the Federation would be to integrate the PID, with its knowledge
and competence, into a developing road administration.
* Simplicity of Project Design. An emergency project implies an abnormal situation with a strong
requirement to focus on what is agreed to be the central objective of the project, namely rehabilitation of
physical infrastructure. Although it is reasonable to state that all involved recognized the importance of
developing the appropriate institutions, the main priority nevertheless was the physical reconstruction of the
transport links. The institutional part was therefore not given enough attention and priority in the political
discussion and process. It is therefore legitimate to question if in an operation which is classified as an
emergency reconstruction project it is feasible to focus efficiently on institutional development, which
normally requires an environment where emergency reconstruction is no longer the main priority. More
generally it is also questionable to assume decisions and actions during a project, emergency or not, which
require parliamentary discussion and decisions. The speed and circumstances of such discussion and
decisions has proven impossible to predict. This is not putting in question the sincerity of the intentions and
- 16 -



objectives of those involved, but rather a recognition of the inherent characteristics of such processes.
Time Needed for Reforms. Closely linked to the previous lesson is the question of time needed for
institutional reform and, more fundamentally, the question of where the push for reform has to originate in
order to be successful. Even in an extreme, post-conflict situation such as in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
where the international community has much more leverage than in most other countries, the prospects for
reforms have proven slim in the absence of local consensus and interest. The situation with respect to the
unsatisfactory progress in establishing the Federation Road Administration is but one example of this in the
transport sector. Another more revealing example is that of the railways where the international community
took the lead and used its powers but where progress has been very slow and mainly of a purely cosmetic
type. This lack of progress happened despite the decision of the donors to withhold funding unless there
was progress in organizational and operating agreements. In both of these cases there are compelling
objective reasons to proceed rapidly with reforms, but unless these reasons have been weighed in the
political process against the perceived disadvantages for the different ethnic groups, progress is not likely to
be forthcoming. It is also important to note that it is not a question of lack of understanding or information
on the part of the local opinion and decisionnakers. Thus the progress is not likely to be speeded up by
initiatives such as seminars, reports, consultants, and the like.
* Project Concept and Definition. Following the experience from the ETRP, the Project was conceived and
defined not only in terms of those components that the Bank was going to finance, supervise and generally
have a responsibility for, but as a much broader concept. This broader concept was in fact a program for
the reconstruction of the whole transport sector. As such it was also foreseen that various parts of this
program would be implemented by different donors in a very decentralized way. The coordination that was
foreseen, and implemented, was one of exchange of general information rather than any kind of centralized
management and control. The reason for such an approach was that it provided a structure for
identification and discussion of priorities between the governments and the donors in the particular situation
that existed. As such it has been a useful tool. The drawback of such a project concept is that it introduces
quite some ambiguity and confusion about what the project actually is. Since the responsibility for the
different components is so decentralized, it becomes after some time impossible for Bank missions to follow
in great detail what is happening in the discussions with different donors about various components.
However, it seems that the advantages of providing such a program framework in some emergency
circumstances do outweigh the disadvantages and possible confusions about what the Bank project actually
is. It is however an approach that should be used very sparingly and in specific situations only. Even then it
might be asked if the program could not be better presented through a sector work type report to the
governments and the donor community. In the recent Kosovo Urgent Road Project, this issue has been
handled by clearly defining the project as comprising only the Bank financed components while the
program, of which the project is a part, is described separately as the context and background for the
project without being made part of the project definition. This latter approach may be preferable as it
enables project preparation and supervision work to be more focused.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowt'erlimplementing agencv:
The comments of the Borrower/Implementing Agency are in Annex 8 and summarized below.
Project components corresponded well to actual needs with respect to transport reconstruction as well as for
economic recovery and unification of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The priorities of the items included are
considered to have been obvious and noncontroversial in light of the damages incurred during the war. The
workings of the two PIDs is deemed to have been important for the project to start on time and move forward
quickly. Local consultants and contractors provided competent, adequate and timely services. The increasing
- 17 -



competition in the construction industry led to lower than expected prices, which in turn allowed a higher
than foreseen quantity of reconstruction to be carried out. The slow availability of counterpart funds from the
Entity government budgets to pay for the 10% of the civil works contracts is noted. On the institutional
development side, the failure to establish an efficient Federation Road Administration is lamented, a failure
which is deemed to result in the loss of the experience gained during project preparation and implementation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.
10. Additional Information
n.a.
-18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndhatodlMtx                         ProJected In kat PSR                   AcbaNLatw*Estmat
Support Republika Srpska fiscal and trade   Achieved                           Achieved
reforms, by creating the conditions for
efficient budget formulation and execution,
and for effective implementation of the
approved trade and customs policy reforms
Remove critical bottlenecks on the main road Achieved                          Achieved
network and support the progressive
re-establishment of adequate road
maintenance activiies countrywide
Note: The indicators mentioned in the table above are really the overall objectives of the Project, as no
outcome/impact indicators were defined during project preparation. As described in the main text of the ICR,
these objectives can be considered achieved.
Output Indicators:
ffld_1ao*tWx                         P*td In lastP$R P4st*no
Rehabilitation of about 157 km of road  About 205 km of road sections rehabilitated  About 205 km of road sections rehabilitated
sections on the main road network
Rehabilitation of 5 bridges            7 bridges rehabilitated                 7 bridges rehabilitated
Supply of 16 tipper trucks to Republika  15 tipper trucks delivered            15 tipper trucks delivered
Srpska
Gradual increase of Entities road      2000 estimated budget in Republika Srpska: 2000 estimated budget in Republika Srpska:
maintenance budgets to at least US$15  US$20 million                           US$20 million
million                                2000 estimated budget in the Federation:    2000 estimated budget in the Federation:
US$6 million                           US$6 million
Law on Roads passed in the Federation  Not Achieved                            Not Achieved
End of project
Note: this annex refers only to the Bank-funded part of the Project.
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost b Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
A. Adjustment Component                                9.00           9.00           100
B. Transport Component
CIVIL WORKS
Road Rehabilitation                                  22.30           22.40           100
Bridge Rehabilitation                                  3.70           3.80           100
Mine Clearing                                         0.10            0.00             0
GOODS
Supply of Trucks                                       1.20           1.30           108
SERVICES   1/                                         2.40            0.60            29
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                           0.30            0.40           133
Total Baseline Cost                                   39.00          37.50
Total Project Costs             39.00           37.50
Total Financing Required              39.00           37.50
1/: The difference between the appraisal and actual costs stems mainly from the fact that trust fund money
became available to fund the costs of services under the Project.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Apraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
<i1?1                          :              0  =    ,19" T dWC_g
1. Works                     10.20         13.10         5.70         74.10        103.10
(9.30)       (11.50)       (5.20)       (0.00)       (26.00)
2. Goods                      1.20          0.00         0.00         60.90        62.10
(1.20)        (0.00)       (000         (0.00)        (1.20)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         2.50          5.00         7.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.50)        (0.00)       (2.50)
4. Incremental Operating      0.00          0.00         0.30          2.00         2.30
Costs
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.30)       (0.00)        (0.30)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      11.40         13.10         8.50        142.00       175.00
(10.50)      (11.50)        (8.00)       (0.00)       (30.00)
- 20 -



roject Costs by Procuremet Arrangements Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         11.80           12.20          5.10          105.40         134.50
(10.60)        (11.00)         (4.60)         (0.00)        (26.20)
2. Goods                          1.30           0.00           0.00           32.90         34.20
(1.30)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (1.30)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.60           7.40           8.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.60)          (0.00)        (0.60)
4. Incremental Operating         0.00            0.00           0.40           2.00           2.40
Costs
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)          (0.00)        (0.40)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         13.10           12.20          6.10          147.70         179.10
(11.90)        (11.00)         (5.60)         (0.00)        (28.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equialent)
. .   M              ,    - -  --       .                         >"ni~~~~~~~~abegp of Apprabnd
'  ' A     e- . v__   GOL .   rA                                        : V..
Roads and Bridges         27.20      2.90      71.70     27.50       3.00     104.70   101.1  103.4  146.0
Railways                                       38.40                           19.30                   50.3
Civil Aviation                                 ]1.10                           6.60                    59.5
Urban Transport                                12.70                           8.00                    63.0
Institution Building      0.30                 2.30       0.40                 2.00    133.3           87.0
Technical Assistance 1/   2.40                 4.80       0.60                 7.00     25.0           145.8
Mine Clearing             0.10                 1.10       0.00                 0.00      0.0            0.0
Total Financing           30.00      2.90     142.10     28.50       3.00     147.60    95.0  103.4  103.9
1/: The difference between the amou;nt of technical assistance foreseen to be funded by cofinanciers and the Bank
credit and actually funded can be explained by the fact that a significant part of this technical assistance was
eventually funded under Bank-administered Trust Funds, which are shown as cofinancing for the purposes of this
table.
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The ERR for those road sections foreseen initially to be funded under the Bank Credit has been recomputed based
on the assumptions presented in paragraph 4.3 of the main text (see table below). The overall ERR, estimated at
42.6% at appraisal, has now been found to have increased to 57%, mainly because short-term traffic growth seems
to have been underestimated during project preparation.
Road Section                  Appraisal 2000   Actual 2000      ERR at         Recalculated ERR
Appraisal             %
AADT           AADT             %
increase %
Obudovac-Loncari                   3486            43             31.2               44.9
Loncari-Brcko                      3486            43             39.8               55.4
Brcko-Bijeljina                    4113            22             63.1               84.5
Bijeljina-Raca                     5775            NA             82.6               94.8
Banja Luka-Gradiska                5121            95             40.2               71.6
Doboj-Samac                        3327            50             33.8               45.3
Derventa-Seslije                   2760            81             23.6               44.8
D Vakuf- Bugojno                   4730            NA             57.6               65.1
Sicki Brod-Cerik                   3388            48             35.2               48.5
Cazin-V Kladusa                    2605            NA             30.5               33.8
Olovo-Kladanj                      2812            78             38.9               64.9
Semizovac-Olovo                    3614            38             38.3               52.2
Caplina-Grude                      3945            NA             49.7               55.6
Livno-Karlov Han                   2469            NA             41.6               46.8
Visoko-Lasva                       5855            71             33.1               47.5
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                .                                                                  ..
Stage of Proiect Cvcle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
__    Count(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS. etc.)  Implementation    Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/96                          1   Economist                             S                 S
I   Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
1/97 to 6/97                   1   Economist                             S                 S
2   Engineers
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Disbursement Officer
I   Lawyer
Supervision
9/97 to 6/00                   I  Economist                              S                  S
I  Engineer
I  Procurement Specialist
ICR
8/00 to 11/00                  I   Economist                             S                 S
1   Transport Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
___________________                 No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                18.6                         48.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                     28.1                         68.1
Supervision                               51.6                        172.6
ICR                                         6                          23.7
Total                                    104.3                        313.0
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
a Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
0 Environmental                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
a Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ElGender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
a Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
a Private sector development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management                0 H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
a Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
FE Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance'                 OHS OS  O u  O HU
? Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Project Preparation and Supervision Missions' Back-to-Office Reports, various dates.
* Bosnia and Herzegovina, Technical Annex, Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project,
dated August 8, 1997.
* Bosnia and Herzegovina, Priority for Recovery and Growth, prepared by the Central Europe
Department of the
World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the Active Cooperation
of the IMG
for the First Donor's Meeting to be held in Brussels on December 20-21, 1995, dated December 8, 1995.
* Bosnia and Herzegovina, The Priority Reconstruction Program: 1996 Achievements and 1997
Objectives, prepared
by the European Commission and the Central Europe Department of the World Bank, dated March
1997.
* Bosnia and Herzegovina, 1996-1998 Lessons and Accomplishments, Review of the Priority
Reconstruction
Program and Looking Ahead Towards Sustainable Economic Development, A Report prepared for the
May 1999
Donors Conference, co-hosted by the European Commission and the World Bank.
e Bosnia and Herzegovina, Implementation Completion Report, Emergency Transport Reconstruction
Project,
dated December 8, 1999.
* Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project, Progress Reports prepared by the Federation and
Republika
Srpska Project Implementation Directorate, various dates.
* International Management Group Task Force Meetings Reports and Update on the Emergency
Transport
Reconstruction Program Implementation Progress, various dates.
* Draft of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Transport Master Plan, prepared by Pacific Consultants
Intemational, dated March 2000.
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Prior to the hostilities, the transport system of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) was organized to meet
the needs of the former Yugoslavia. Inland transport was provided by a road system (including 8,600 km of
main and regional roads). As with other sectors, the ability of the transport sector to function was seriously
affected by the hostilities. Republic of Srpska was excluded from the Emergency Transport Reconstruction
Project and, in large part, resulting from sanctions, the donor community provided just 3-4% of resources to
Republic of Srpska till the end of 1997. Starting in 1998, recovery started with large scale of intemational
assistance. The Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (SETRP) combined an adjustment
component in support of the budget of Republic of Srpska (SDR 6,510,000) with a transport investment
component for rehabilitation of roads, reconstruction of bridges, and supply of goods (SDR 10, 760,000). In
the Federation it contained rehabilitation of roads, bridge reconstruction, mine clearance and consulting
services (SDR 10,940,000).
1.2    Roads: The four years of hostilities affected the entire road network. Virtually no significant road
maintenance was carried out and this combined with military traffic caused significant deterioration in road
pavements. While some sections of main roads exhibited only superficial signs of apparent wear, they were
well past due periodic maintenance and visible distress was expecied shortly with a more rapid deterioration
setting in quickly. In the Republic of Srpska it was estimated that approximately 50% and in the Federation
approximately 28% of the main and regional road network required immediate attention, within a new three
year program, to remedy both damage and the more severe effects of maintenance neglect due to heavy traffic
on them.
1.3    Bridges: Bridges were prime strategic targets in military operations and during the four years of
hostilities about 20 bridges in Republic of Srpska and 7 bridges in the Federation were damaged specially by
NATO bombing. Additionally, about 10 bridges in Republic of Srpska and 25 in the Federation were made
impassable. Many of these bridges were on main routes with the principal crossings being maintained through
makeshift deviations or single lane military bridges. Although, for some of the impassable bridges, both part
or all of the superstructure and, in some cases, piers and/or pierheads had been destroyed, many had the piers
and abutments still standing and most reconstruction would be confined to replacement of the decks. With
financing from the RS Government (for designs), EBRD, IDA, EU and Italian and Japan Grants, most of
these bridges are by now reconstructed.
1.4    Construction and Maintenance Equipment: Many items of construction and maintenance
equipment were damaged, destroyed or purloined during the hostilities. Much of the remainder suffered from
neglect due to an inability to use the equipment or through lack of spare parts. Shortage of the equipment
initially hampered reconstruction of the transport system. Under the SETRP, part of urgent needs were
addressed and 15 trucks were provided for public road maintenance companies. Also, Japan Grant (US$4.5
million) and Dutch Grant (US$2.5 million) were used for procurement of construction and maintenance
equipment and it was distributed to public road maintenance companies. RS Road Directorate from Dutch
Grant procured 60 traffic counters and their installation will be completed by the end of 2000.
1.5   Institutions: Most institutions in B&H suffered a loss of staff and premises and there was
insufficient budgetary support for their operations. The RS Roads Directorate operated from 1994 and a new
Law of Roads was adopted in 1996. Budget for roads maintenance increased from US$15 million in 1997 to
USS25 million in 2000. Improvement in road maintenance operations is remarkable in both the management
- 27 -



and financial sector. A new RS Road Directorate building was constructed in 1999 (funded by RS
Government) and the number of engineers and other technical staff increased.
1.6   Progress regarding institutions in the Federation has been scant. The basic legal framework,
especially the Law on Roads which is a prerequisite to formally establish the road administration with its
structures and duties, has not yet been passed by the Federation parliament. The discussions about such a law
have been ongoing for several years but without any concrete results yet. Such a seemingly technical law
entails consequences for questions such as centralization vs. decentralization, the role of the cantons, the
allocation of tax revenues, etc. and as such will require agreements about fundamental political questions in
the Federation. In the meantime, a small road administration has been put in place but it has been able to
perform only minimal duties, such as proposing allocations for budgetary discussions and processing
contracts for maintenance activities on a largely non-competitive basis and without a clear setting of
priorities. As it is lacking in agreed stature and resources, such basic functions as an agreed upon funding
mechanism, traffic counts, road condition databases, maintenance and construction planning, etc. are also
lacking.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
2.1    The objective of the SETRP was to reconstruct and repair urgent high priority links and services in
the transport system - particularly roads and bridges, to provide equipment and assistance to prepare,
implement and maintain the program works and to provide a framework for the future development and
management of the country's transport system in both the Federation and Republika Srpska.
2.2    The SETRP included the following:
(i)   the rehabilitation of about 405 km in the Federation and 557 km in RS of main and regional roads;
(ii)   reconstruction of about 9 bridges in the Federation and 7 in RS;
(iii)   construction and maintenance equipment in RS; and
(iv)   technical assistance for project preparation, implementation and support to transport institutions
in both RS and the Federation.
2.3    The SETRP continued the reconstruction activities initiated under the ETRP and RS Government
Transport Plan, Plan which was distributed in 1997 at the Second Donor Conference for the reconstruction of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Specifically, the SETRP: (i) removed critical bottlenecks - bridges and North
Corridor link, (ii) resumed operations of major transport network, (iii) ensured connections to
Zagreb-Beograd motorway (bridges over Sava River), (iv) ensured development of the transport sector and
related institutions, (v) contributed in the rebuilding of local contracting and the consulting industry. Also,
this project supported establishing regular road maintenance activities in RS. The components comprised
mostly those items which were adequately funded and of top priority. Preparation was such that the project
objectives included the intention that all the contracts would be awarded during 1998 and 1999.
2.4    Project Components
(a) The adjustment component provided 6,510,000 SDR to support key macroeconomics policy
reforms in RS.
(b) The investment component concentrated on principal road network in Republic of Srpska
(East-West Corridor Novi Grad - Bijeljina) as well as the North-South Corridor (Bijeljina -
Trebinje) and the supply of construction/maintenance equipment.
- 28 -



2.5    Roads: The project included those sections of high priority roads where only a minimal to medium
level of design work was required. The total of sections was approximately 405 km in the Federation and 560
km in RS.
2.6    Bridges: About nine in the Federation and seven in RS bridges of concrete and composite
steel/concrete were included for repair or reconstruction.
2.7   Technical Assistance: Provision of consultants' services and engineering equipment to assist both
Federal and RS Ministry of Transport and Communications (FMTC and RSMTC) with Project road and
bridge design and construction supervision.
2.8    Construction and Maintenance Equipment: Maintenance equipment was supplied to RS public
road maintenance companies to upgrade their maintenance capacity. This component was dedicated to
physical works equipment, necessary to gradually improve maintenance operations. Office and engineering
equipment was provided through the institution building (IMG) component of the project.
2.9    Vehicles, engineering and design equipment: Equipment and goods were provided for the RS
Roads Directorate and local consultants for preparatory work and construction supervision.
2.10   Costs: The estimated cost of the proposed total project was US$ 175 million. Of this US$ 175
million, the World Bank would provide US$ 30.0 million from the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina
(TFBH) and the objectives achieved, utilizing the above US$ 30.0 million, are the subject of this
Implementation Completion Report.
Proposed Project Financin2 Plan
Item                              Total Cost              TFBH
US$
(M)                  US$
.__ _ _ __   Uv[(M )
Roads                                50.0                  22.3
Bridges                              16.1                   3.7
Const. & Maint. Equipment             9.0                   1.2
Technical Assistance                  7.3                   2.4
Mine Clearing                         1.1                   0.1
Institutional building                2.5                   0.3
TOTAL                                175.0                 30.0
2.11         Special Account: In order to facilitate timely project implementation, the Bosnia and
Herzegovina Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations established, maintained and operated, under
- 29 -



conditions acceptable to the IDA, a Special Account in US dollars in Crown Agent Financial Services,
London.
3.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1    Organization of Implementation: Initially the SETRP program was commenced at the end of April
1997, and became affective on September 25, 1997. The Start Up Services (SUS) consultants provided
engineering services and assistance to both FMTC and RSMTC to set up the project, arrange for design and
supervision contracts, conduct additional road condition surveys and prepare specifications in both
Federation and RS, and confirm equipment requirements in RS.
3.2    Project Implementation Directorate (PID) of the Federation of BiH was already established and
fully staffed by that time and in the Republic of Srpska Ministry of Transport and Communications
(RSMTC) the PID, with a staff comprising a local Director and a small staff, was established at the
beginning of 1997.
3.3   Institutional Arrangements: The project was implemented through the PIDs. Although initially it
was intended that the PIDs would have the responsibility for overseeing the management of the project
through the actual implementing agencies such as the Roads Directorates, the early dissolving of the Roads
Directorate in the Federation meant that the PIDs had to assume full responsibility for the implementing of
the project, with the assistance of the SUS consultants.
3.4    Roads and Bridges: The SUS consultants therefore assisted the FPID in procuring the services of
local consultants to undertake designs and construction supervision.
3.5    Procurement, Accounts and Reporting: In view of the urgent nature of the SETRP, the works and
the goods (in RS) as well as services were required to be contracted and supplied quickly so that
reconstruction works could start as soon as possible and also be seen to be starting. Procurement for TFBH
financed items and those financed from Bank administered finds followed the Bank's Guidelines for
procurement under emergency projects.
3.6    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published on March 16, 1997. The GPN advertised the
extent of t,he SETRP and invited expressions of interest from interested contractors, suppliers and consulting
firms. For International Competitive Bidding (ICB), the Bank's standard prequalification documents were
followed. However, for National Competitive Bidding (NCB), special documentation was prepared with
criteria taking into account the general state of the civil engineering industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina and
the lack of work, by contractors, during the period of hostilities.
3.7   In the early stages of the SETRP, contracts were awarded by Simplified National Competitive
Bidding (SNCB), in order to proceed with the program as quickly as possible. As the SETRP progressed,
the contractors restored or replaced their equipment and subsequently became more efficient and competitive.
Therefore, towards the end of the SETRP, the contracts were then procured by advertising in the national
press and awarded using National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
3.8   In all cases, the World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents were used. The documents were
customized and approved for each component to avoid further reviews. The bidding documents were
translated into the local language to assist the local contractors and consultants. In order to progress with the
program as quickly as possible, the period allowed for submission of bids was reduced to four weeks. Bids
- 30 -



and currencies were limited to the currency in use in B&H following the cessation of hostilities, namely the
Deutsche Mark, but for foreign Contractors, it was limited to the US$ in RS.
3.9    Once contracts were awarded, a Special Account was established with ING Bank in Vienna for the
Federation and CAFSL (Crown Agents) in London for RS. This account was monitored by the Federal and
RS PID Transport respectively and they submitted replenishment applications as required, which included
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
4. ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
Suitability of the project's objectives
4.1    The project's objectives, mentioned in section 2 of this report, were well founded based on the urgent
need to re-establish the transport system and assist in the recovery of economic activity and the unification of
the country.
4.2    The approach of the Banks to establish the Project Implementation Directorates of Transport in
common work with a "Start Up Services" and "Roads Advisory services" consultants, worked well and
because of this, the project was able to commence on time and move forward quickly.
4.3    Due to the damage to the transport networks, the priorities of the project's objectives virtually
established themselves. The main objectives for the road network were to re-establish the vital link between
the Port of Ploce, and Sarajevo and Zenica to the north in the Federation and Novi Grad and Bijeljina in RS
and also to carry out urgent repair works to the vital bridges on the main routes.
4.4    The objective of providing equipment and goods to the Roads Directorate was considered to be
suitable and necessary in both the Federation and RS.
Adequacy of the project design and components
4.5   In determining the project components, the International Management Group (IMG) had undertaken
visual inspection of most of the road network, using local consultants to assess the damage repair costs. The
road program was arrived at by using the collected data together with 1987 traffic data adjusted for changes
in traffic patterns. An economic appraisal was also undertaken for each activity proposed in the roads
program: reconstruction, rehabilitation and overlays.
4.6    The bridge repair program was determined by reviewing the critical bottlenecks in the road transport
system caused by bridges destroyed during the course of the hostilities. Temporary bridge structures were in
place on most of the main routes where bridges had been completely destroyed, but they were normally only
single lane. Therefore traffic was delayed as a consequence of the reduced capacity and, at certain locations,
waiting times were considerable. The project bridges selected for financing were on main road links and their
reconstruction/repair would obviate the use of dangerous and/or lengthy deviations.
4.7    As stated earlier in paragraph 4.2, the establishing of the Project Implementation Directorates of
Transport together with a "Start Up Services" consultants, enabled the project to commence on time and
move forward quickly. Contracts for engineering design work and preparation of bidding documents were
soon awarded to local consultants. These local consultants carried out the designs according to appropriate
and consistent standards. Work packages were then assembled to enable a variety of procurement methods to
be adopted.
- 31 -



Overall quality and speed of project implementation
4.8    The title of the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project speaks for itself of the urgency
for implementation of this project, especially in view of the project's objectives. The early establishment of
the "Start Up Services" consultants ensured that, although in the early stages of the program in the
Federation, the Roads Directorate was not fully functioning and was eventually dissolved, the programme
was able to progress quickly. Contracts were negotiated and awarded to local consultants and contractors
through the PIDs.
4.9    Bearing in mind the state of the civil engineering industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the
cessation of hostilities, the overall quality of the project implementation was satisfactory from the initial
stages of the program and it improved all the time throughout the project. In particular, contractors were keen
to rebuild their companies and many of them re-invested profits within their companies. This became evident
as new equipment was purchased.
4.10   The other very noticeable occurrence during the project was the increasing competitiveness of the
contractors. Bidding prices fell throughout the project programme and this enabled more roads and bridges to
be repaired than was envisaged in the early stages of the project.
4.11   Although the initial intention of the reconstruction program was for all the contracts to be awarded
during 1998 and, for the most part, disbursements to be made the same year, this was not met. The main
reason was that the timing of the construction contracts was such that in some cases the work was delayed
due to the Bosnian winter. Plans were therefore postponed until 1999 because of the winter weather. In
addition to this, as stated earlier, the reduction in prices ensured that further schemes were brought into the
reconstruction program at the request of the Ministry of Transport and the approval of the World Bank.
These could not be undertaken until the construction season of 1998 and 1999. Similarly, further plans have
been added during 1998 and 1999 as the remaining available funds have been distributed to repair further
sections of the main road network widely through Republic of Srpska and Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
4.12   The Credit Agreement foresaw that 10% of the civil works contracts be paid by the Entities. The
Entity govemrnents have been slow to allocate money for these payments which has meant that the
contractors have been forced to extend a corresponding amount of credit to the governments. The situation
did improve, however, during implementation so that at the end, counterpart payments due correspond more
or less to performance guarantee due to the contractors one year after completion of the works.
Experience gained during project implementation
4.13   The main experience gained during the project has been by the local consultants in undertaking the
necessary design and supervision contracts using World Bank procurement methods. The local consultants
have prepared the necessary Bidding Documents for the construction contracts.
4.14   One of the main problems, encountered more recently during the project, has been the consultants'
lack of experience in dealing with a competitive market. The consultants, at the present time, appear unable
to adapt their estimating prices to match the contractors' competitive pricing of the contracts. The result of
this has manifested itself in recent contracts, where the consultants have tailored the road rehabilitation works
to match the available budget and this has been followed by the contractors offering more competitive prices
resulting in a lower contract price.
- 32 -



4.15   At first, this appears to be a very satisfactory outcome. However, when the state of the existing road
condition is also taken into account, the budget is never sufficient to undertake all the necessary works. If the
consultants were better able to anticipate the contractors' prices, then they would be able to include more
rehabilitation works and still stay within the limited budget when the bids are received. During recent
contracts, this has resulted in both the Federation and RS Ministry of Transport and Communications
requesting approval, from the World Bank, for further expenditures during the rehabilitation contracts in
order to utilize the available budget.
4.16   It was also intended as part of the emergency project that the SETRP would result in bringing road
maintenance activities up to an efficient level by providing the Roads Directorate's road maintenance
organizations with equipment such as spare parts and appropriate workshop equipment. With the early
dissolving of the Roads Directorates in the Federation, the existing experience in road maintenance was lost.
The Federation Ministry of Transport and Communications is now trying to re-establish a Roads
Directorate, but to date there has been no "follow-up" road maintenance program to continue from the
rehabilitation works which have so far been undertaken within the SETRP. With the ending of the SETRP,
the opportunity to gain maintenance experience from the program has achieved results in RS, but in the
Federation it now has been lost.
5. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF THE RS AND FEDERATION TRANSPORT PIDs
5.1    As stated in the Credit agreement, the execution of the project was given to both the Federation PID,
established in 1996, and to the RS PID, established in 1997.
5.2    Both the Federation and RS Transport PIDs were responsible for the rehabilitation of the roads,
reconstruction of bridges, associated mine clearance, and for the consultants' services for the necessary road
and bridge design and construction supervision.
5.3    The Federation Transport PID consisted of a Director, two Economists, three Civil Engineers and a
Secretary. The FPID Transport was greatly assisted by the consultants, who were based in both FPID and
RS PID offices and were experienced in both contract preparation and administration. The RS Transport PID
consisted of a Director, an Economist, three Civil Engineers and a Secretary.
5.4    The FPID performed the assignments the most professional way possible and the proof of this is the
many works which were implemented within grants and credits awarded by various investors. It also must be
noted that since the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project started, the FPID did not have any serious
contractors' claim addressed or any monitoring objection in view of misprocurement or misunderstanding of
terms or rules.
5.5    Both PIDs would like to stress the significant contribution of the World Bank representatives based
at the Resident Mission in Sarajevo and Washington. Their local support ensured that clarifications and
approvals could be obtained quickly which greatly assisted the speed of implementation of the project.
6. IDA TRUST FUND CREDIT
6.1    The IDA Trust Fund Credit Agreement provided the Federation with US$ 15.13 million towards the
SETRP and the RS with US$ 14.627 million.
- 33 -



6.2    This can be broken down into the respective components as follows:
RS Transport PID Expenditures
Road and bridge rehabilitation/reconstruction    US$ 12.251 million
Goods (Maintenance Equipment)             US$  1.270 million
Consultants' services for roads and bridges     US$ 0.139 million
PID Costs                                       US$ 0.213 million
TOTAL                                           US$ 13.892 million
Federal Transport PID Expenditures
*     Road and bridge rehabilitation/reconstruction    US$ 13.944 million
Consultants' services for roads and bridges     US$ 0.451 million
Mine Clearance                                   US$ 0.0 million
PID Costs                                       US$ 0.192 million
TOTAL                                            US$ 14.587 million
6.3    From the above figures, it can be seen that the most significant expenditure has been within the road
and bridge rehabilitation/reconstruction programme, together with the road maintenance equipment in RS and
associated consultants' design and supervision costs. Therefore, we have taken this opportunity to further
study these costs to evaluate the final costs of the works and to compare them with the original estimated
costs, the designers' revised estimated costs and how the costs changed during the period of the project. In
total, 19 contracts in the Federation and I I in RS, were undertaken for civil works. These included 6 bridge
reconstructions in the Federation and 2 in RS with the remainder being road rehabilitation contracts.
6.4    For the bridge reconstruction works, the final contract cost was often higher than the bid value
because once the reconstruction was underway, additional work became necessary to complete the repairs.
6.5    Looking at the 13 Federation and 9 RS road rehabilitation costs produces different results. In general
terms, the road rehabilitation bid values were always less than the original estimates, with the exception of
one contract in the Federation which was 102% of the estimated figures. In the Federation the average cost
was 78% of the original estimated figures. Also in general terms, final contract prices were the same as the
bid values allowing for currency exchange rate fluctuations between the Dollar and the Deutsche Mark.
6.6    As stated in paragraphs 4.16 and 4.17 the contractors have become much more competitive and this
can be seen in three of the last four contracts in RS. However, additional works have been undertaken on
these schemes, using Variation Orders, in order to use more of the budget and the final costs compared with
the original estimates range from 75% to 90%, with the average cost being 85% of the original estimates. In
the Federation, the same phenomenon was observed, with the average cost being about 72% of the original
estimates in Federation. This downward trend has been much more noticeable at the time prior closing the
project.
- 34 -



CROATIA                                                        -
K~~adusa   ~~  ~ ~                     GrodiskG             -                                                                   45-
45'                                     rila > edor                                                              <           
i   i :fE~~ <  \1  X e    s     \~iKrncs RijakO  .   MdOvE                       iv       n     c.XTO Erdevi -
t RQiA  tE                               <      T          \S               W            ,          0  7 ':~~~~~V~Roo
~~~5  k  >  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Most  rLuBiel
D o n  v 0         V ile z c\                      n ovR / r   C t eiDo b  Sr e b r
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kslo                                                 e-lz  0         od  GromocFnijio  \<  Be$gwde
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r   ren,
; 0:; ;: 0 St - t ~~~~sie > Ka lin                              d i,i5  
Ka es~ ~ ~~~T
rro Rii.k.             -Ziv-  - -GcoPUBt-inic
4:' etoi                                N            YUGOSTAVIA
Ica ;Rilec                             (SERBIA! V
0~~~~~~~~~~~- A;rotc                                                                      MOa;0;0:   >s-)rii<NTENEGROI
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                              noikIieo   0  Ck Io1 2>r 0 deoo~tr  0od  - C,''''  'n "
f   0 ::   0   0 L   C:      :X:         : X   i   f  D     U     b    *  \    itE,   iE-:  '   :-   ::;- -ani  ic
;:  t-000  :i;  0:BOSNIA AND HEIiIEGOVI4A;               0bS0f -: e0tn X                         jnOo .5n  ISo oo
.:it   ;               E  :                   .      :            J<9=;, i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot mImS e portdo eWe ViddPr   i
i pEMERGENCY TRANSPORT RECONSTRUCTION PRlOJECT AND  -:    f                                          E          rXyFtt4nk=cbtw
SEONDE0MERGENCY TRANSPORT RECON-STRUCTIOCNPROJECT:S                                                                               OW0 of di:!:
: :0ACTIVWIES ON R5OAD SECMTION  AD BRiDGES COPlETED -AT ICR STAGE              :         10                                         5 ;;4w ltS  05
: -: .;:  ;i;   ;:  !  :;   ;;   : 4   : ;!   :: :    : :00:     L <         f~CZtEFCH' 1.POLAND (     UKRAINE
ORHER0S    RAN      RVONTRCTI*4PROJCT                 0 o  RSI CITI{ES00;0                    L         -f GR AY-So9(~o    oi 
O           0                                           ...; -  JOR ROADS  E         42                    Cr;  WII        0 t2s     bV*A)~ <    w<ROMANIA  4tw
:I   0                                          4.- i -i- .4:Qt19S:0z0:;|I I 'AYS  0 :                  Y' --  -:Q-  '<CRAI ~  : 
: Pg #  :; .;    :   EMERGR        T    0PR  -       DAYTON AGREME2NT LINES:                                   Fm R t I <<t    r   ED.PE    _            
o            i0         ES t 2ADNOS    1                   TR --*RNATiONALROIJNDARR          ;    ITALY 5,; <; ,,BMN1 BULGARIA   Or5V 
rr  A      41      T U t- 0; t-  0 0 NNELS                                    I Ka                                               TV t
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   ; ';: BR S   / 0 > evNStGREECtS,                                                          30ev 
16 3    1                          1.7                                180         etP   --------        20''S- ,        R- st



