Report No. PIC5479
Project Name                     Bosnia and Herzegovina-Second Emergency ...
Transport Reconstruction Project
Region                           Central Asia and Europe
Sector                           Transportation
Project ID                       BAPA45484
Borrower                         Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementing Agencies            Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of
Transport and Communications
Republika Srpska Ministry of
Transport and Communications
Contact person                   Mr. Dino Bicciato,
Program Management Advisor
Svjelost Bldg., Mustafe Kantardzica 3/V
71000 Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Date This PID Prepared           6/20/97
Date Initial PID Prepared        10/25/96
Appraisal                        1/6/97
Projected Board Date             8/19/97
Peer Reviewers                   Graham Smith (EMTIE), Melody Mason (EC3IV)
Country and Sector Background
1.      Country Background: Four years of hostilities have shattered
the economy and severely curtailed productive activity in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. However, destruction did not occur uniformly and
did not have the same effects on the economy in all parts of the
country. Output fell most in the Bosniac majority areas due to the
destruction of large segments of the transport and communications
networks, water and energy supplies, and productive assets, as well
as loss of human life. In the Serb majority areas, the decline was
also severe in terms of destruction and damage of basic
infrastructure, exacerbated by the economic embargo. In the Croat
majority areas economic activity has continued relatively less
affected, at about 60 percent of the prewar level. Average per
capita income in Bosnia and Herzegovina is currently estimated at
about US$600, compared with around US$1,900 in 1990.
2.      Sector Background: Large-scale damage occurred as a result of
the hostilities. Transport links leading to or near confrontation
lines suffered the most extensive destruction. Over 2,000 km of the
main road network were in need of immediate repair. Seventy bridges
were damaged; all bridges connecting Bosnia and Herzegovina to
Croatia were destroyed; no infrastructure maintenance had been
carried out during four years; most of the railway lines were



inoperable; Sarajevo Airport was partly destroyed and closed to
regular civilian traffic; public transport vehicles and
installations were damaged or run down. Transport institutions lost
premises, records, staff, funds and, in many instances, did not
have access to those parts of the system which remained operable.
Moreover, the sector institutions were forcibly fragmented and
communication was severed among them.
3.      Since the end of hostilities, the condition of the transport
infrastructure has significantly improved, mainly through the
implementation of the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
(ETRP) (See 1/) and SFOR activities to restore strategic infrastructure.
Road and railway links have been gradually restored in much of the
country. Road traffic on part of the main network has already
reached prewar levels. The main part of the North-South and East-
West railway lines have been reopened to minimal standards but no
commercial trains are yet running. A few civilian charter flights
are now serving Sarajevo Airport, and public transportation
companies are progressively resuming their activities.
4.      Major transportation bottlenecks remain, however. In the road
sector, more than half of the main network still needs to be
rehabilitated. Road maintenance needs to be undertaken urgently to
avoid further rapid deterioration of infrastructure and maintenance
organizations need to be organized and equipped. In the railway
sector, the economically important part of the network has been
restored to minimal standards, but operating agreements and further
rehabilitation are needed before commercial trains can run
regularly. In particular, signaling and telecommunications systems
have to be restored to ensure safety. Extensive work is still
required on Sarajevo Airport to accommodate regular traffic. Public
transport systems will continue to require a considerable level of
assistance in the years to come.
Project Objectives
5.      The objectives are to:
-- Complete high-priority reconstruction projects;
-- Carry out maintenance on the most critical parts of the
networks;
-- Develop an efficient transport system -- coordinated within
the country and internationally; and
-- Take proper organizational measures so that rail transport
can be carried out efficiently, safely, and (to the extent
possible) in a financially viable way.
Description
6.      The proposed Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction
Project (SETRP) would cost US$175 million. The Project will include
the necessary components to overcome in a balanced manner the most
serious transport system constraints not taken into account by the
ongoing Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project. The SETRP would
be divided into three main components on the following levels:
- 2 -



-- State of Bosnia and Herzegovina: items of an international
nature including the rehabilitation of the Sava/Una rivers
bridges and of Sarajevo Airport;
-- Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: rehabilitation of
roads, bridges and Mostar Airport, procurement of railway
and urban transport equipment, including safety equipment,
and technical assistance; and
-- Republika Srpska: road and bridge rehabilitation, supply
of construction/maintenance equipment, procurement of
railway, urban transport and navigation equipment to Banja
Luka Airport, and technical assistance.
7.      IDA, out of the Interim Trust Fund, would provide a credit of
US$30 million. EC would tentatively contribute US$52 million and
Japan US$0.4 million for preparatory activities. It is proposed
that Bosnia and Herzegovina would contribute about US$2.9 million.
The remainder, about US$90.0 million, would be sought from donors
at the Third Donors' Conference. The scope of the SETRP may have to
be adjusted, on an item prioritization basis, to match available
resources.
Implementation
8.      The IDA Interim Trust Fund (ITF) Credit would be implemented
through the Entities Project Implementation Directorates (PIDs).
The PIDs on the level of the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina are already in place,
while the Republika Srpska PID is being created. The PIDs would
also be responsible to coordinate and provide assistance in the
overall implementation of the SETRP. On the level of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the Program Management Advisor, as defined under the
ETRP, as well as his two deputies, one in each entity, would assist
the respective ministries in their relations with the donor
community, and the PIDs in implementing their tasks. Donors will be
strongly encouraged to coordinate their activities. In this
respect, they will be advised to use the information and assistance
framework provided by the State and Entity Ministries for
Transport, the Bank, the Program Management Advisor and the
Transport Task Force. Cofinanciers would have the possibility to
use, after agreement with the relevant government, the PIDs to
implement their respective parts of the SETRP.
Sustainability
9.      Although this is an emergency project, considerable attention
will be given to:
(i) the development of the transport sector financial
sustainability, by:
-- Requesting that acceptable budgets be allocated to road
maintenance both in the Federation and Republika Srpska;
-- Requesting counterpart funds to undertake road maintenance
on the most damaged parts of the main network;
-- Providing further support to the rehabilitation of the
- 3 -



railway sector only once it has been demonstrated over an
adequate period of time that trains can run across the
network on a reasonable technical and commercial basis; and
- Reopening totally, at the soonest, Sarajevo Airport to
regular civilian traffic and Europe's main air routes
which used to cross Bosnia and Herzegovina before the
hostilities.
(ii) the development of institutions and their capacities.
It will build on what has been achieved during the ETRP with a
special focus on enhancement of transport institutions operational
capacities.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
10.     Experience acquired in the preparation and implementation of
the ETRP have shown that: (i) the fast-track civil works
procurement approach used under the ETRP has been successful,
allowing for quick award and implementation start of the contracts;
(ii) foreign technical support has been crucial in 1996, and the
Bank recommends that it be maintained at a reduced level in 1997,
in order to gradually increase the technical responsibilities of
local authorities and consultants; (iii) rehabilitation requires
not only repairs but also maintenance. Thus far, SFOR has assisted
in most critical maintenance works but this will not continue.
Entity authorities have to assume these responsibilities -- and
need to be supported to that effect; and (iv) the institutions
involved in the transport sector should receive the funding
necessary to fulfill their mandate. All these lessons have been
taken into account in designing the proposed project.
Environmental Aspect
11.     The Project is expected to include the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing infrastructure and as such will not require
any land acquisition. The relative small scale of works would not
require the opening of new quarries or asphalt plants sites.
Furthermore, by improving badly damaged roads surface, shoulders
and drainage, and removing downed bridge decks from rivers and
their banks, the Project would have a positive impact on the
environment. Therefore and as an emergency operation, the Project
has not been assigned an environmental category. However, any
subcomponents which present an opportunity for environmental
enhancement will be designed accordingly, and all subcomponents
will be monitored during supervision to ensure that there is no
degradation to the environment.
Program Objective Categories
12.     In general terms, the project will: (i) support poverty
reduction through employment generation; (ii) support the restart
of industry by re-establishment of transport links; and (iii)
facilitate the return of refugees and displaced persons and
community revival.
-4-



Project Benefits
13.     The economic benefits from restoring critical links in the
road network are major. Downed bridges are critical bottlenecks in
the transport system and their reconstruction will eliminate
lengthy and/or dangerous detours. For roads, vehicle running costs
will be lowered on improved road surfaces and, with the maintenance
equipment, road pavement service life will be extended through
timely major maintenance. The technical assistance component will
support project implementation and, with institutions sorely
affected by the hostilities, will promote the re-establishment and
modernization of transport institutions. Moreover, since a part of
the contracts to be let under the Project will be awarded to local
industry, jobs will be created directly in the local construction
and consultants' industries through the road and bridges
reconstruction and maintenance program. As a serviceable transport
system is essential to the economy, the project will also
indirectly support the creation of jobs throughout the country.
Project Risks
14.     Both the Governments and the Bank are better prepared, thanks
to the implementation of the ETRP, to handle project related risks.
Assuming that peace will be maintained, project risks include: (i)
overextending the local construction capacity (not less than five
infrastructure projects will be implemented this year). To mitigate
this risk, local contractors will be advised to form joint ventures
with foreign companies and NCB as well as ICB would be broadly
used; (ii) delays in implementation due to the fragility of
institutions. However, the implementation of the ETRP has already
strengthened the institutions and the technical assistance to be
provided under the Project will ensure adequate institutional
capacity; (iii) delays in program progress due to a slow
implementation of the mine clearing component. So far, however,
under the ETRP, mine clearing activities have not constituted an
obstacle to works progress; (iv) failure to close the financing
gap. If participation from the Donors' Community partly fails to
materialize, the scope of the project will be adjusted downwards to
match available resources. As the bulk of the project is made up of
small subcomponents providing flexibility in implementation such
that the project can be easily adjusted; and (v) failure in
providing counterpart funds, mainly for maintenance. Clear targets
and vigorous supervision will be needed to manage this risk.
1/ The ETRP secured funding of about US$145 million, from over
20 donors, including IDA which provided a credit of US$35 million,
of which 68% has been disbursed so far.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 5 -



Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 15, 1997.
- 6 -



