Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T - 7147 - BIH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND EMERGENCY TRANSPORT RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT
August 8, 1997
Infrastructure Sector
Europe and Central Asia



CURRENCY EXQUIVALENT
(as of July 31, 1997)
Currency Unit: Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinar (BUD)
BHD100 = DM1 = USS0.55
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Meic System
ACRONYMS
ANS            Air Navigation System
DC             Direct Contracting
ERR            Econoniic Rate of Return
ETRP           Emergency Transport Reconstructon Project
EU             European Union
FRY            Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GPN            General Procurement Notice
HDM            Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
ICAO           International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA (1F)       International Development Association (Interim Trust Fund)
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IFOR           Implementation Force
MP             International Monetary Fund
IS            International Shopping
LIB            Limited International Bidding
NS             National Shopping
MAC            Mine Action Center
MPRA          Mine Protection and Removal Agency
NBBH           National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NPV           Net Present Value
PERD           Private Human Resource Development, Japanese Grant Fund
PHD           Project Implementation Directorate
PMA            Project Management Advisor
RS             Republika Srpska
SETRP          Second Emergency Tansport Reconstruction Project
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
SWPP           Small Works Procurement Procedure
TRP            Transport Reconstruction Program
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:                             Johannes Linm ECAVP
Country Director, Bosnia and Herzegovina:   Christiaan Poormn, ECCO4
Sector Director:                            Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Staff Members:                              Enn Vasur, Saunya Mitra ECCBA,
Jacques Bure, Aymeric-Albin Meyer,
ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA AND EIERZEGOVINA
SECOND EMERGENCY TRANSPORT RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Credit and Praect Summary
Borrower:                     Bosnia and Herzegovina
BDheabries:                   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Republika Srpska
Credit Amount:                SDR28.2 million
Tems:                         Standard IDA terms, with a 35 year maturity and a 10 year grace
period
Onlmnding Temun:              Identical to the IDA trmns to the Borrower
Fiancig Plan:                 Borrower/Govemmet             US$   2.9
IDA  ITF)                    US$ 39.0
EC                           US$ 52.0
Japan                         US$  0.4
Netherlands                  USS   0.2
Finaning gap                 USS 89.5
Totl                         US$ 184.0
Economic Rate of Return:      30% (on the road portion of the investment component)
Poverty Categry:              Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report        Not applicable.
Project ID:                   BA-PA45484
Map:                          IEBRD 28612
This report is based on the fidings of missions which visited Bosnia and Herzegovina in January and June 1997.
The transport component was prepared by Messrs. Bun Vasur (Task Mag), Jacques Bun (Highway Engineer),
and Aymeic-Albin Meyer (Highway Engineer). The adjustment component of the project was prepared by Mr.
Saumya Mitra (Task Manager) with the assistance of Mr. Pedro Rodriguez (Economist). Dino Bicciato of the
International Managem t Group (1MG) provided valuable information essential for the preparation of the
tranWor part of the project Legal support was provided by Maurizio RIagazi and Barbara Santos, and advice on
procement was provided by Naushad Klan. The poer-reviews of the project w    Ms. Melody Mason, EC3IV
and Grham Smith, EMTIE. The Director for Bosnia and Herzegovina is Mr. Chriatin Poortman, and the
Inlatuctr Sector Director is Mr. Ricardo Halperin.






-i-
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                                                                             Page
I. Introduction .............................................................1
II. Adjustment Lending Component .............................................................1
Economic Background .........................................................1
Macroeconomic Developments .........................................................2
Macroeconomic Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its Management in Republika
Srpska .........................................................4
m. Transport Investment Component Background .............................................................                               6
Roads and bridges .........................................................7
Tunnels and landslides .........................................................7
Construction and maintenance equipment .........................................................7
Sava/Una River bridges .........................................................8
Railways .........................................................8
Civil aviation .........................................................8
Ports .........................................................8
Landmines .........................................................8
Urban transport .........................................................9
Institutions ........................................................                                                            9
IV. World Bank Strateev and Proam s in Bosnia and He.......................................... 10
V. Project Description .............................................................11
Project Challenges ............................................................                                                        11
(A) The adjustment component ............................................................                                      11
(B) The transport investment component ............................................................                            12
Project Objectives ............................................................                                                        14
(A) The adjustment component ............................................................                                      14
(B) The transport investment component ............................................................                            14
Project Components ............................................................                                                        14
(A) The adjustment component ............................................................                                      15



-Ui-
(B) The transport investment component ..........................                                                15
Roads and bridges                                                                 .......................... 16
Railways .......................... 17
Mine clearing ............                                                                              I 1
Civil aviation ............                                                                             18
Urban transport ............                                                                            18
Institution building ............                                                                       19
Technical assistance ............                                                                       20
VI. PEpject Costf .....................                                                                                  20
VII. Project Financing .....................                                                                            21
VIII. Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation .........................................                   24
Institutional arrangements .........................................                                           24
Procurement .......................................... 24
IX. Prloject lustification .........................................                                                    29
Economic Justification .........................................                                               30
Lessons from  Previous Bank/IDA  Involvement .........................................                         30
Risks .........................................                                                                3 1
X. Agreements Reached and Recommendations .........................................                                     32
Annee ..........................................                                                                        33
1.: Procurement Plan
2.: Indicative Implementation Plan
3.: Road, Bridge, Tunnel and Equipment Subcomponents
4.: Railway Subcomponent
5.: International bridges and Airport Subcomponents
6.: Road AdvisoMr Services ToRs
7.: Progress Report Requirements
8.: PIDs Terms of Reference
9.: Economic Evaluation of Project Roads



Tables:
Table 1: Economic trends in the Federation, 1996  ...............................................3
Table 2: Economic trends in Republika Srspka, 1996 ......... ......................................3
Table 3: Transport Reconstruction Program  Financial Requirements .......................................... 13
Table 4: SETRP Investment Component Cost Estimates ..............................................1  I
Table 5: SETRP Investment Component Financing ..............................................                                       22
Table 6:  DA  (ITF)  Credit Investment Part ............................................... 23
Table 7: Investment Component Procurement Arrangements   . ............................................. 27
Table 8: Disbursement Categories ..............................................                                                    28
Ca
Chart 1: Republika Srpska Industrial Production Structure ...............................................4
Map: IBRD No. 28612






Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
L IN1RODUCTION
1.    The proposed Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project combines an
adjustment component in support of the budget of Republika Srpska, one of the two Entities that
comprise Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a transport investment component aiming to address
some of the large-scale damage occurring as a result of the hostilities in the country. This
Technical Annex complements the Memorandum of the Managing Director and the Credit
documentation prepared by the Bank in support of this Project.
IL ADJUSTMENT COMPONENT
Economic Background
2.    The declaration of independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the end of 1991 was
quickly followed by an exhausting war that lasted three and a half years. The war completely
shattered the economy and left extensive human and physical devastation. By 1995, Bosnia and
Herzegovina's GDP had shrunk by 80 percent from its pre-war level, and its per-capita GDP had
declined to US$500. Separate economic management systems within the country developed
during the war. Republika Srpska adopted the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) dinar as
well as its tax, trade, and banking legislation. Within the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
separate fiscal and financial policies and management were implemented in the majority Bosniak
and Croat areas.
3.   In the Federation, post-war economic recovery is weli underway. Industrial production
increased by 90 percent during 1996, reflecting the limited production base before the recovery
started and the large scale of international assistance. In 1996, about 80% of donor resources
were committed to the Federation territory, and the vast majority of them  are under
implementation. In Republika Srpska, economic recovery has lagged behind and began only
gradually after the lifting of international sanctions in February 1996. In large part resulting from
sanctions, donors provided just 3-4% of resources in Republika Srpska. Following the lifting of
sanctions, trade and the supply of basic commodities have improved to a certain extent.
Nevertheless, the difficult post-war situation in supply and production, particularly in non-
agricultural sectors, renains largely unchanged. Current estimates place Republika Srpska
production in late 1996 at 8-10 percent of its pre-war level. Because of the very low level of
economic activity and tax rate reductions early in the year, 1996 tax revenues of Republika Srpska
folU below their 1995 level, which forced further expenditure restraint in order to maintain the
budget balance. Credit and monetary expansion were also limited under FRY's tight monetary
program.
4.    War damage and resultng urgent reconstruction needs are large and widespread across all
economic sectors of both Entities. However, destruction did not occur uniformly and did not



-2-
have the same effects on the economy in all parts of the country. Output fell most in the Bosniak
majority areas due to the destruction of large segments of the transport and communications
networks, water and energy supples, and productive assets, as well as loss of human ife. In the
Serb majority areas, the decline was also severe in terms of destruction and damage of basic
infrastructure, exacerbated by the economic sanctions on Repubfika Srpska, and difficulties of
access to and communication with Republika Srpska. In the Croat majority areas economic
activity has continued relatively less affected, at about 60 percent of the prewar level.
Macroeconomic Developments
5.    The Dayton Agreement and implementation of a major donor assistance program in 1996
set the stage for economic recovery, especially in the Federation.1 This recovery was facilitated
by continued adherence to the stabilization policies of 1994.  Important steps toward
normalization of financial relations with international creditors were taken in 1995 and 1996 with
membership in the international financial institutions - the International Monetary Fund (DMF),
World Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). These
institutions helped Bosnia and Herzegovina to develop an economic policy framework under
which international assistance was provided. The framework encouraged mainnce of
macroeconomic stability by continuing to limit fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector to
levels compatible with available sources of foreign financing. However, even if macroeconomic
stability has been so far maintained, post-war economic recovery has been clearly uneven between
the two Entities.
I     The donor assistance prgam provides across-thewboard fincal and technical support to ensure
sstainale employmnt creation and growth. The program's goals include preventing bottlencs in all areas of
infrastructure and providing basic services in heth, education and housing; ensuring minimal living stmdards for
the most vulnerable segments of the population; and rapidly establishing institutions for economic managment,
with an emphasis on the development of a private sector and the transition to a market economy.



-3-
6.    Strong   Recovery  in  the    Table 1: Economic Trends in the Federation, 1996 a
Federation. Industrial production in                                                 1996
the Federation increased almost 90  Industrial Production
percent  during  1996  over  1995,   % change, Dec.96/Dec.95                         89.1
reflecting increased production of wood  Nonagricultural unemPloymentrate (!K)         44
products, textiles and  apparel, and   verage Monthly Net Wages (D) (Feb. 97)         244
fooducs,tuffan    beeages (Tpabele an)  AverageMonthly Pensions (DAd)                  65
foodstuff and beverages (Table  1). CPI, (6 change Feb. 97/Feb. 96))                 14.1
Because it started from a very low base, Broad Money (M2, %9 change over end-95) "2   110
however, production in the second half    Money                                       237
of 1996 was still just 10 percent of its  Cuneny in circulaion3                       285
prewar  level.       Most   prewar        Demand deposits                             203
conglomerates remained idle in the        Quad-mone                                    89
absence of a clear restructuring and  Fiscal Balance (cash, in DMmllllon)              -5
I/ Dat4 tear to Jan. - Nov. pwid             Or id"
privatization   strategy,  discouraging  21 DataesHd)Jn- io U                        r
fbreign investors and delaying donor   dndp ad tine and avM depoa (in MHM mid
assistance.   Private enterprises and    &g iX
small- and medium-sized firms, on the  3/ EXdudu&mi.n ..Y.
other hand, were becoming very active, 4/ Tidt mvg deposit
mosdty in services such as trade and  source Nion Sttcal hdtte, Natioalks cflBoi  and Hwovh..
transport.    Recovery  was  most lIiii ofFinae. Wodi Bank ad DOF dff uints
noticeable in the Bosniak-majority
areas, reflecting the limited production base before the recovery strted and the large scale of
international assistance. Production and trade also improved in the Croat-majority areas, but the
rate of increase was more moderate, reflecting a much less depressed level of production before
1996. Exports also increased, mainly in wood products.
7.    A    Slower   Start   in          Tabb2.: Economic Trends in Republika Srpka, 1996 a
Republika    Srpska.   Republika                                                      1996
Srpska economy continues to be         ndustrial Production
severely afflicted by the effects of the  % change Dec. 96/Dec 95                     27.2
war, and recovery has been much    Nonagriculturalunemployment rate (3)"               70
Slowerdm  tht m th  Fedetion  verage Monthly Net Wages (DAd) (Feb. 97)       73
slower than that in the Federation    Average Monthly Pensions (DM)"                   33
and both production  and income    CPI, ({ change Feb. 97/Feb. 96)                    -20
levels are much lower than those in    Broad Money (M2, % change over end-95) "/2      -2
the Federation. Unemployment runs        Mony (ecluding foeign cur.)                  -100
at an estimated 70%/o. However, real     Quasi-money                                   14
wages have registered a strong rise    Fiscal Balance (cash, in DMmillion)              -1
from    the   severely   depressed    1/ DdarrarJa-Dm.porod.                         Orbad
2/ Defined dmniad depsit plus tin tdsm 
immediate post-war level and  in        in YupsIav dnarand ot tbre  dvreidnm
February  1997 the monthly wage         s  Mmdry of rhne of Repubilc rp" Wadd Ba, nd
stood at DM73, which represents a        Suffe_Un
rise of three-fbld in the course of
1996 (Table 2). Prices were roughly stable during 1996, albeit with high month to month
fluctuations. The tightness of monetary policies reflected the intention of the authorities of the
FRY to maintain a fixed exchange rate for the Yugoslav dinar.



-4-
S.    Though Republika Srpska's GDP is estimated to have expanded by 28 percent in real
terms in 1996 (from a severely depressed base), and industrial output to have grown by nearly 30
percent, the sustainability of growth is highly questionable in view of a paucity of domestic
savings and external assistance. The growth seen in 1996 was achieved primarily through a
restart of industry and other activities that did not require fresh investments or significant worldng
capital. Dearth of working capital and funds for investment are now projected to be the major
constraints to sustained growth in 1997 and beyond. Official data put estimates for Republika
Srpska's GDP in 1996 at US$828 million, which represents an increase of about 28% in real
terms over 1995. The industrial capacity utilization rate stands at about 16%, as of end-1996.
9.    It is notable that the share of capital goods in overall industrial output fel substantialy
from 1995 to 1996 (Chart l). This is mostly attributed to a reduction in military-related activity,
and therefore, reduced demand for military-related machinery.
Chart 1: Republika Srpska Industrial Production Stfcture (1995, 1996)
RS Indualtril Producdon Sucturm In 1M  RS pcunsfrl Produacmio t ursri h im
consur                                 c:onsr
Goods            Ofiw                  Goods     _    Omm
36-              0.11%                 33.09%
ps>   ag<Sllll  CS                6L-  ie eqll  Goxbk
GsGoa 9.12%
22.43%
~~~~~~~~~~~~Good .
Goads                                 57.44%
41.06%
Macroeconomic Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its Management in Republika
Srp.ka
10.   The overall economic program for Bosnia and Herzegovina is based on the continuation of
sound macroeconomic policies, the rebuilding of public administration, market oriented stucural
reforms, and the reconstruction of critical physical assets. The strategy has three macroeconomic
piliars: (i) the use of a fixed exchange rate as a nominal anchor through the currency board
arrangement; (ii) fiscal discipline, aimed initially at the avoidance of domestic borrowing by all
levels of government; and (iii) large scale external assistance on concessional terms. This
program is expected to be supported by a stand-by arrangement with the IMF, currently being
negotiated. In this context, Republika Srpska authorities have adopted an economic program for
1997 (see Annex I of the Memorandum of the Managing Director to the President).
11.  In 1997, the monetary regime will be gradually transformed with the institution of the
Bosnia and Heregovina Central Bank that will function strictly as a currency board. The passage
of the legislation on the central bank in mid-1997 after prolonged negotiations between the two
Entities signified unification of monetary policies at the State level. A domestic currency - the



-5-
convertible mark - will be introduced and it will be maintained at a fixed rate vis-a-vis the
Deutsche mark. In the meantime, the Yugoslav dinar and the Deutsche mark will continue to
circulate freely within Republika Srpska, as will the Croatian kuna and the Deutsche mark in the
Federation. They will continue to be acceptable as the means of payment even beyond the
introduction of the convertible mark. Monetary conditions in 1997 are expected to continue to be
such that low inflation could be maintained.
12.   Republika Srpska authorities maintained a balance in the cash budget in 1996, with
domestic revenues and external financing covering total public expenditures. Thus, no reliance
was placed on borrowing from the domestic banking system or from the non-bank public; in large
part this outcome reflected lack of loanable funds within the banking system and the lack of
savings by the general public that could be used to finance a possible budgetary deficit. In accrual
terms, however, the budget was in significant deficit as arrears were run up in relation to debt
service, wage and pension payments -- estimates of the volume of arrears are, however, not
available. Hence, Republika Srpska's budget was clearly not on a sustainable basis in 1996.
13.   The Republika Srpska budget for 1997 has been approved by Parliament. The budget
focuses both on ways to strengthen the revenue base and on the prioritization of aqe diues.
Revenue increases are expected to stem mainly from a strengthening of economic activity and
impro-vements in tax and customs administrations. Tax policy will be guided by the principle of
applying relatively low rates to a broad base. Excise and sales taxes are projected to rise
significantly, but the growth in customs revenues will be relatively modest as it will be affected by
the introduction of the new trade and customs regime from the second half of 1997. The fill year
effects of the changes in the trade and customs regime are expected to be substantial, but will be
felt in their entirety only in 1998. Until this time, there is a clear need for fiscal resources to
support essential social expenditures and external debt servicing obligations.  Budgetary
expendiures have been limited to projected revenues and the likely level of external assistance
through donor financing, including quick disbursing support from the Bank. The budget execution
law permits reductions in all categories of expenditure (other than wages, benefits for war invalids
and survivors and transfers to the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina) as necessary to ensure that
no recourse to domestic borrowing becomes necessary. Payments on external debt (principally to
the Bank) are fMlly provided for within Republika Srpska's budget.
14. Republika Srpska authorities will take steps to strengthen budget planning, formulation
and execution through improvements in systems and personnel. These efforts will be supported
by technical assistance from the Bank and by a proposed Public Finance Reform Credit that is
being prepared.
15.   Fiscal discipline is reinforced by the current monetary arrangements in Republika Srpska.
The authorities lack independence in monetary policies as the major currency crcuating in
Republika Srpska continued to be the Yugoslav dinar, and in the absence of availability of credit
to the Entity authorities or private sector (beyond donor financing), increase in the demand for
currency could be satisfied only by running current account surpluses. In effect, the firm
monetary policies being followed by the FRY authorities in 1996 created the conditions for the
virtual absence of inflation in Republika Srpska.



16.   As for external assistance, considerable extenal financing will be needed to normalize
Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations with external creditors, as wdl as to meet the requiements of
the reconstruction program. Timely avalability of intemational support will be of crucial
importance in advancing economic recovery and transition.
17.   Since the beginning of the hostilities, Republika Srpska maintained a fiee trade regme
with the FRY; thus, the two Entities -- with the Federation enjoying a free trade regime with
Croatia - had differing trade policies. In addition, the customs tariffs regime and rates, other
import regulations, including restrictions, differed between the Entities. Three pieces of key
legislation have been passed by the State Parliament in 1997 - the trade policy law, the customs
policy law and the customs tariffs law. These laws will ensure common policies in all these areas
and will constitute an important step towards the formation of common economic institutions at
the level of the State. The legislation will go into effect once published in the official Bosnia and
Hwzegovina Gazette. Republica Srpska authorities are now required to take steps to implement
this legislation, inter alia, by revising the tariff code, removing quantitative and value restrictions
on trade, and revising the free trade area agreemnents. They will also participate in a tariff
conumssion with Federation partners in order to rationalize and liberalize the trade and customs
regime firther.
18.   With respect to structural reforms and the promotion of a market based economy, the
Republika Srpska authorities have passed an amended privatization law in spring 1996 which
provides for rapid privatization using a variety of methods. Steps are being taken to reform the
company law, develop a commercial code, strengthen collateral laws, and establish the framework
for a capital market, with significant progress expected in the second half of 1997. Republika
Srspka authorities intend to restructure the banking system with a view to rapid privatization of
banis and to encourage foreign participation in both bank and enterprise privatization.
111 TRANSPORT INVESTMENT COMPONENT BACKGROUND
19.   Large-scale damage occurred as a result of the hosfilities. Transport links leading to or
near confrontation lines suffered the most extensive destruction. Over 2,000 km of the main road
network were in need of immediate repair. Seventy bridges were damaged; all bridges connecting
Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia were destroyed; no infastrucure      ce had been
carried out during four years; most of the railway lines were inoperable; Sarajevo Airport was
partly destoed and closed to regular civilian traffic; public transport vehicles and insbllations
were damaged or run down. Transport institutions lost premises, records, staff funds and, in
many instances, did not have access to those parts of the system which remained operable.
Moreover, the sector institutions were forcibly fragmented and communication was severed
among them.
20.   Since the end of hostilities, the condition of the transport in r  has sgnificantly
improved, mainly through the implementation of the Emergency Tranort Reconstruction Project
(ETRP) 'and IFOR/SFOR activities to restore strategic ira   . Road and railway links
The ETRP socured filzding of about USS145 million, ftom over 20 donors, including IDA which providod a
credit of US$35 million, of which 68% has boen disbured so fir.



-7-
have been gadually restored in much of the country. Road traffic on part of the main network
has already reached prewar levels. The Sarajevo-Ploce and the Bosanik Novi/Novi Grad - Tuzlia
railway lines have been reopened to minimal standards but no commercial trains are yet running.
A few civilian charter flights are now serving Sarajevo Airport, and public transportation
companies are progressively resuming their activities.
21. Major transportation bottlenecks remain, however. In the road sector, more than half of
the main network still needs to be rehabilitated. Road maintnace needs to be undertaken
urgently to avoid firther rapid deterioration of infiastructure and maintenance organizations need
to be organized and equipped. In the railway sector, the economically important part of the
network has been restored to minimal standards, but operating agreements (paragraph 32) and
further rehabilitation are needed before commercial trains can run regularly. In particular,
signaling and telecommunications systems have to be restored to ensure safety. Extensive work is
still required on Sarajevo Airport to accommodate regular traffic. Public transport systems will
continue to require a considerable leve of assistance in the years to come.
22.   Roads and bridges. Damage to road structure is mainly due to lack of mntenance and
heavy traffic. Destroyed bridges on the main routes are redistributing traffic to under-designed
parts of the network, which accelerates their degradation. The ongoing ETRP is financing
emergency maintenance and reconstruction on about one third of the principal road network in
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Republika Srpska succeeded in undertaking some emergency
mainenance activities on its own. In parallel, IFORISFOR has undertaken an extensive patching
program to rehabilitate critical sections of the trunk roads and instaled over 40 temporary bridges
on major routes, to respond to the emergency situation. However, it is estimated that in order to
totally reduce the maintenace and reconstruction backlog, an additional US$400 million will be
required.
23.   Tunnds and landslides. The problem of lack of maintenance, in addition to damage,
also apply to tunnels and landslides. Tunmels need urgent attention for structural rehabilitation,
water infiltration, and lighting systems. Numerous landslides have been reported which need to be
treated in order to ensure the safety of the road structures. As a first measure, 3 tunnels have
been rehabilitated under the ETRP, while IFOR and local governments also repaired some
landslides.
24.   Construction and maintenance equipment: Construction and maintenance equipment
has suffered from the hostilities as follows: (i) directly: much construction equipment has been
damaged or desoyed and replacement of these items is critical to ensure sustainability of
reconstruction and maintenance; and (ii) indirectly: through lack of maintenance and spare parts,
notably those which need to be imported. As a result of the embargo, maintenance units in
Republika Srpska are short of tires, which paralyze the finctioning part of their equipment.
Under the ETRP, construction, maintenance and asphalt/quarry equipment is being supplied by
various donors. It is expected that the ETRP will meet the equipment needs within the
Federation, while needs in Republika Srpska have to be addressed under the proposed Project.



-8-
25. Sava/Una miver bridges. All bridges conmecting Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia were
destroyed. Under the ETRP, works on the Orase bridge are scheduled to start by September
1997 and the Brcko railway bridge is being reconstructed. IFOR has istalled temporary
structures on the Vojlinja railway bridge and the Bosanski Gradiska/Gradiska and Bosansid
Brod/Brod road bridges. One bridge still needs reconstruction and eight others rehabilitation in
order to fiily restore communications to the prewar level.
26.   Railways. The railway system was severely damaged during the war. On the Federation
side, rehabilitation and repair works under the ETRP, led by the EU, made it possible to open the
Sarajevo-Ploce line on July 30, 1996. Conditions permit an average speed of 60 kn/h for two
pairs of trains per day, but in the absence of inter-Entity agreements, no commercial trains are
running yet (paragraph 66). On the Republika Srpska side, as a result of EFOR efforts to
rehabilitate strategic links, extensive track rehabilitation and bridge restoration has been
undertaken on the Vojlinja - Doboj - Zvornik line. As a result, the main part of the East-West
(from Bosanski Novi/Novi Grad to Tuzla) and North-South (from Ploce to Doboj) railway lines
have been reopened to minimal conditions (e.g. an average speed of 50 km/h on the Sarajevo-
Capljina section), allowing trains to run from Ploce to Northern Europe. However, infrastructure
conditions are still far from attaining international standards, notably as concems operating safety.
27. Civil Aviation. As a result of the hostilities, Sarajevo Airport was partly destroyed and
still remains largely closed to regular civilian traffic, and airspace control over the territory of
Bosnia and Herzegovina was rendered impossible. The ongoing ETRP will achieve the first phase
of the upgrading of Sarajevo Airport to near prewar conditions. On August 15, 1996, Sarajevo
Airport was reopened to five non-scheduled civilian charter ffights per week and one carrier
resumed scheduled operations. But the persistent lack of civilian navigation equipment impedes
regular connections, especially in the winter. The rehabilitation, led by EBRD, is expected to be
completed by December 1998. The ETRP also includes supply of equipment to the Mostar and
Banja Luka Airports. However, resuming regular civilian flights over Bosnia and Herzegovina
wil also require, inter alia, adequate passenger and freight facilities, inter-Entity and international
agreements to reopen air routes, and ICAO certification.
28.   Ports River ports on the Sava and Drina rivers were partially damaged and have sufferet
from neglect. The port of Ploce was bombed during the hostilities, the oil terminal was shut down
and berths require urgent attention. The port of Ploce rehabilitation is included under the ongoing
Bank-financed Emergency Transport and Landinne Clearing Project to the Republic of Croatia
(Loan 4104-HR).
29.   LandmineL  To clear a first portion of the 16,000 identified minefields in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, demining operations are underway throughout the country. Dewning is undertaken
to military standards by the local armies and IFOR/SFOR, and, to civilian standards, through the
Bank's Emergency Landmine Clering Project (Credit 2905-BOS). This project is implemented
by the Entity mine clearing agencies, with the United Nations Mine Action Center assistance.
These agencies are issiing project site risk assessments, and are implementing necessary studies
and demining operations. It is estimated that at least a decade will be required to clear most of the
mines in Bosnia and Herzegovina.



-9-
30. Urban Transport. Public transport companies have seen their equipment destmyed,
stolen or rendered inoperable through lack of maintenance, spare parts and tools. Under the
ETRP, around fifty buses and twaity mini-buses, including spare parts and workshop equipment,
have been delivered (mainly to Sarajevo) through the EU's Essential Aid Program and bilateral
donations. Twenty second-hand buses have been deivered from Spain and ten from Norway.
And an estimated hundred new and second-hand buses have been donated by European cities to
the main urban transport companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, two new traims with
spare parts donated by the Czech Govenment are on their way to Sarajevo.
31. Institutions. Weakness of the institutions and very limited budgetary support impede
satisfkctory development of road and railway operations and  nteace institutions. The
situation is most difficult in the Federation where the prewar road organization has been dissolved
with no new institution yet created to take its place. In the meantime the Federation Project
Implementaion Directorate (PID) and a road maintenance unit within the Federation Ministry of
Transport and Communications fulfill only part of the functions of a road administration.
Nevertheless, the creation of the PI) as weli as a road mintenance unit at the level of the
Federation to implement the Federation road and bridge program has laid the ground work for the
creation of a Federation Road Dirtorate (paragraphs 57 and 58). In Republika Srpska, a Road
Directorate is operating, albeit with insufficient maintenance funding, through a barely finctioning
Road Fund.
32.  In the railway sector, operating arrangements have to be agreed upon between the relevant
authorities which presently control various parts of the 1,000 km long network, in order to allow
railway operations to restart as soon as possible on the whole network. In the civil aviation
sector, some nter-Entity agreements ha  already been reached to permit the resumption of
civilian fights over Bosnia and Herzegovina, and an EU-financed Civil Aviation Master Plan,
seting out the full needs of the sector, has been prepared.
33.   The implementation of the 1996 prograrn demonstrated the lack of an adequate legal and
institutional framework. First steps to resolve this issue have been made, notably through:
* The Commission on Public Corporations, charged with fostering cooperation both at State
and Entity levels and developing legislation, to manage country-wide and intemational
communications (paragrphs 34 and 35);
*  The Program Managenent Advisor through the International M ment Group, assisting
the government authorities in overall donor coordination and program definition (paragrph
71); and
* The draftng of a Law on Roads in the Federation.
34.   The Commission on Public Corporatiom. In compliance with the Dayton-Paris Peace
Agreement, a Commission on Public Corporations has been established, under the chinship
of an EBRD representative, to assist Bosnia and Herzegovina in the reconstruction of both
physical and institutional links between the Entities in the transport sector. This Commission is
composed of five members: two repreves of the Federation, one representative of
Republika Srpska and two international members (including the chairman) apponted by the



-10-
president of EBRD. The Commission is exammining, iter alia, the institutional transport issues and
has established working groups in the following key sectors: power, railways, roads, water, posts
and telecommunications.
35.   The above working groups were requested to identify the difficulties and shortcomings of
the public utility companies of the Entities, as weil as regulatory and other problems to be solved
in order to achieve proper power supply and proper communications within and between the
Entities. Emphasis has been put on linkages between the Entities, rationality and economic
viability. Although a practical approach is being emphasized and priority is being given to short
term requirements and related arrangements, the ultimate objective of the Commission is to
propose long term solutions and structures to the parties. Within the framework of its activities,
the Commission is actively addressing transport sector organization issues,1 fbcusing on: (i)
coordination, through the specific inter-Entities transport worjing groups; and (ii) development of
the railway operations, through a railway working group.
IV. WORLD BANK STRATEGY AND PROGRAMS IN BOSNIA AND BERZEGOVINA
36.   On April 1, 1996, Bosnia and Herzegovina fulfilled the conditions of succession to the
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's membership in the Bank, IDA and IFC.
Membership is retroactive to February 25, 1993. The resolution of Bosnia's arrears with the
World Bank, through consolidation of its IBRD debt, allowed regular Bank lending to begin in
June 1996. With a war-devastated economy, low post-war per capita GDP and lack of
reditworthiness, Bosnia and Herzegovina was declared IDA eligible.
37.   Since early 1995, the Bank Group has been deeply involved in developing, with the Bosnia
and Herzegovina authorities, a blueprint for reconstruction of the country's economy. A three- to
four-year Priority Reconstruction Program totaling some US$5.1 billion was presented to and
endorsed by a donors' conference co-sponsored by the Bank and the EU, following sgning of the
Dayton-Paris Peace Accords in December 1995. This conference, and a second one in April
1996, led to 1996 commitments of about US$1.8 billion from some sixty bilateral and multilateral
donors for immediate and priority reconstruction activities. A third donors' conference in July
1997 mobilized additional pledges of US$ 1.1 billion for reconstruction.
38.   During 1996, the Bank followed an assistance strategy aimed at jump-starting economic
activity through support of a broad range of economic sectors. Leveraging Bank resources with
significant fimding from donors was an important element of this strategy. Before arears
resolution, the Bank supported a series of immediate assistance programs through a special
US$150 million Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (TFBH). Seven emergency operations
were approved under the TFBI, including rebuilding of government institutions and fimding of a
line of credit to small business, as well as support for rehabilitation in the agriculture, water and
sanitation, transport, health, education and heating sectors.
Assuming the fimcdon of the Transport Corporation which, so far, has not been cnited.



-11-
39.   Since the start of regular Bank lending in mid-1996, US$207.6 million in IDA resources
have been committed, supporting an additional nine operations focused on clearing of landmines,
reconstruction of electric power, housing, hospitals and schools, establishment of a guarantee
facility for industry, and three programs to support recovery of employment through public
works, re-training and loans to microbusinesses. The Bank's assistance program also supported
the initial phase of the government's macroeconomic and institutional reforms: the Transition
Assistance Credit, approved by the Board in September 1996, was the first operation focusing on
institution-building in the Federation and a series of structural reforms needed for advancing the
transition to a market-economy. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has also committed
US$2 million to an equity fund and US$0.7 million for a microbusiness project.
40.   While emphasis during the first post-war year was on moving quickly with emergency
reconstruction across a range of sectors, the Bank's assistance strategy in 1997 and beyond will
shift to focus on sustainability and ensuring the medium- to long- term viability of policies and
investments. Significant donor resources will be needed for the next several years; however,
Bosnia and Herzegovina must increasingly become more self-reliant in preparation for the time
when these inflows are no longer available. This will mean viable government institutions,
sustainable government budgets, improved cost-recovery policies and mechanisms and structural
reforms that stimulate private investment. Three overarching objectives will guide the Bank
Group strategy: (i) further development of the basic institutional infrastructure for economic
management; (ii) transition to a market economy through deepening of major structural reforms;
and (iii) continued, selective support of physical reconstruction.
41.   Further policy-enhancing investment or adjustment operations are envisaged to support
institution-building at the State and Entity level, as well as key reforms in the areas of public
fiance, banking, privatization and trade liberalization. In the area of reconstruction, foture Bank
operations will support key areas such as the network infiastructure sectors of energy and
transport, as well as education, agriculture and other sectors essential to economic recovery.
Limited IDA resources will continue to make partnerships with other donors essential: mobilizing
co-funding for future operations, and coordinating strategies -- e.g., eventual exit from those
sectors where other donors are more fully engaged or have greater comparative advantage - will
be important elements of this partnership.
V. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
42.   The proposed Project consists of two components: (i) an adjustment component of US$9
nillion equivalent, which will benefit Republika Srpska, and (ii) a transport investment component
of US$175 million equivalent, which will benefit Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of
rehbilitating and relinidng national and international transport systems.
Project Challenges
(A) The adjustment component
43.   Republika Srpska budget is clearly not yet on a sustainable basis, although Republika
Srpska authorities maintained a balance in the cash budget in 1996. On accral terms, the budget



-12-
was in significant deficit as arrears were run up in relation to debt service, wage and pension
payments. Recent policy decisions taken by the authorities and enacted into law in the trade and
customs areas, the adoption of a sound budget for 1997, the measures to be taken in cooperation
with the Bank in implementing the budget as well as the trade and customs laws constitute
important first steps towards ensuring sustainability of policies and they deserve Bank support
through the adjustment component. Furthermore, a clear need exists for fiscal resources to
support urgent social sector expenditures and external debt servicing obligations.
(B) The transport investment component
44.   The restoration of an effective transport system is a precondition for economic recovery in
the two Entities: restart of industry and development of commerce are contingent upon the
removal of infrastructure bottlenecks. Hence reconstruction efforts aim to:
* remove critical infrastructure bottlenecks;
* resume operation of major transport networks;
* ensure sustainable development of the transport sector and related institutions; and
3 rebuild the local contracting and consulting industry.
45.   In December 1995, in a joint effort between the Government, the Bank and the EU, a
reconstruction program was prepared that envisages total emegency reconstuction fimding
requirements of about US$5 billion over the next three to four years. Within that program, the
finding for the Transport Reconstruction Program (TRP) was estimated at US$698 million to be
committed over three to four years.
46.   The TRP has the following objectives:
rehilitation and re-start of maintenance on the main road network;
* physical restoration and resumption of traffic on the main railway lines;
* re-opening of Sarajevo Airport to regular civilian traffic;
*  upgrade of Mostar and Banja Luka Airports;
*  rehabilitation of two ports on the Sava River;
* rehabilitation of public transportation systems in the main cities;
*  development of transport institutions; and
* implementation of related works (e.g. mine clearing), provision of consulting services and support
to institutions.
47.   While remaiing valid as an overall framework, the TRP has been reduced from an original
total cost of US$698 nillion to US$583 million to take into account the continuous update of
reconstruion   needs made through 1996 and IFOR activities - large-scale patching of roads,
instlation of many temporary bridges, and railway repairs. In addition, the time horizon for the
rehabiitation of the secondary and tertary road networks has been extended, since damage to
these networks is not of major economic significance. Furthermore, the first year requirements
temselves have been revised downward from US$301 million to US$163 million, to maintain a
coherent program while coping with: (Q) delays experienced in raising donor financing for



-13-
transport; (ii) persistent difficulties in appraising a country-wide program; and (iii) a still limited
local absorptive capacity.
48.    The revised TRP would, therefore, require US$583 million (Table 3) over a three to four
year period as follows:
*  In 1996, US$192 million was committed, including US$145 million for the ETRP;
* In 1997, US$175 million is required for the investment component of the proposed Second
Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project (paragraph 49);
* In 1998 and 1999 about US$216 million will be needed.
Table 3. Tansport Reconstruction Progrm : Exteal fblnanng Needs
(US$ millon)
Roads and bridgo                  341           l18            100            123
Roads                       [173]         [54] b          [48]           [71]
Road safty                   [10]          [10            [1]            [9]
Bridges                      [75]         [26]            [37]           [12]
Tunnels and slips            [13]          [9]            [3]            [1]
Road equipment               [50]         [20]            [9]           [21] d
Asphalt plants and quames    [20]         [9]             [2]            P19
Sava River ports                   5            0               0              5
Railways                          90            15             38             37
Civilaviation                     43            24             14              5
Urban transpot                    46            10             11             25
Min clearing                       a            3               2              3
IEzution building                  7            3               3              1
Technical asistac                 34            16              7              11
Recurret costs                     9            3               0              6
a Mlloton for 1998 and 1999 are tnttvo ad relt mdly to bus am  and reltd Wspr pat,
and workShp equipomt to cover remmmng eomeency needs. The es_mat is mubject to .aoeusfihd
_           of the "1,000 buses" program being se up by the Idian muicpal anport a e.
b TI& amount inises comminet repoted by donors a part of eir  mipl infasruuoe projet.
o In additon, extensive wors weo undnken by FOR.
d Te 98-99 allocat   s W io accou  te defltf of                o of istin  qipment odue to to
hostlte. This oqumnt will be procued to loca coa_tor mainly tugh civil workD coacas fancood out of
loans nd grn  from tho intr n commuIty.
49.    The proposed investment component of the Second Emergency Transport Reconstuction
Project (SETRP) will continue reconstruction activities under the ongoing ETRP.1 It adheres to
the TRP objectives focusing on the restoration of a sustainable transport system. The objectiv  of
It would also seek to cover the rmaining financing gap under the ETRP (about US$18 million).



-14-
the IDA (F financed part of the investment component of the SETRP is to assist the Borrower
in further rehabilitating the main road network while supporting the progressive re-establishment
of- adequate road maintenance activities countrywide.  The remaining of the investment
component of the SETRP wiil be financed by donors, in the framework of the international
community support to the reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the pledging session of
the third donors' conference, held on July 24, 1997 in Brussels, donors pledged to the 1997
tranche of the reconstruction program about US$1.1 billion and an additional US$140 million in
support of peace implementation activities. The sectoral breakdown of the US$1.1 billion is
expected to be finalized by the end of September 1997.
Project Objectives
(A) The adjustment component:
50.   The adjustment component supports Republika Srpska fiscal and trade reforms, by
creating the conditions for efficient budget formulation and execution and for the effective
implementation of the recently approved trade and customs policy reforms. It is expected that the
counterpart funds would be used to undertake urgently needed social expenditures and finance the
xernal debt service requirements of Republika Srpska in 1997.  By supporting policy
implementation and the budget, these resources will help attaining fiscal stability and enhance the
prospects for the overall sustainability of policies.
(B) Transport investment component:
51.   The objectives of the transport investment component is the rehabilitation of the primary
transport network countrywide, and the reconstruction of the remaining key transport links with
the rest of Europe. The investment component will continue the reconstruction activities initiated
under the ETRP and will: (i) ranove critical infrastructure bottlenecks; (ii) resume operation of
major transport networks; (iii) ensure sustainable development of the transport sector and related
institutions; and (iv) rebuild the local contracting and consulting industry. The specific objective
of the IDA (ITF) financed part of this component of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
further rehabilitting the main road network while supporting the progressive re-establishment of
adequate road maintenance activities countrywide. For 1997, it is assumed that reconstruction
efforts made during 1996 will not be sustainable without a stuctred and strong follow-up to
devlop the emergency interventions into a concrete restart of the transport sector operations.
Furthermore, strong support is needed to achieve the necessary inter-entity arrangements aimed at
relinldng the Entities transport networks and setting up efficient transport institutions.
Project Components
52.   The project would consist of the following two main Components:



-15-
(A) The adjustment component (US$9 milion)
53.   The adjustment component will provide US$9 million to Republika Srpska to support
key macroeconomic policy reforms. The proceeds will support the approved 1997 budget in line
with agreed budget priorities that include essential social expenditures and debt servicing
obligations. This component provides needed fiscal resources that help alleviating the acute needs
of 1997; and
(B) The transport investment component (US$175 miDlion)
54. The investment component of the SETRP will concentrate on the principal road/railway
network rehabilitation of the remaining part in the Federation and the rehabilitation of the East-
West corridor, Bosanski Novi/Novi Grad - Banja Luka - Doboj - Bijeljina, as well as the North-
South Corridor, Bijeljina - Zvornik - Ustipraca - Foca/Srbljine - Trebinje, in Republika Srpska.
Thus, the investment component of the SETRP comprises a civil works component accounting
for around 60% of the total cost. Donors would be encouraged to finance civil works under
appropriate packages. The investment component of the SETRP would also complete the
rehabilitation of the Sarajevo Airport, and supply necessary equipment to Mostar and Banja Luka
Airports.
55.   The proposed investment component of the SETRP amounts to US$175 million. This
amount includes a notional allocation of US$38 million for railways, which may not mateialize
(paragraph 66). This component of the Project will include the necessary subcomponents to
overcome in a balanced manner the most serious transport system constraints not taken into
account by the ongoing ETRP. The inestment component of the Project would be divided into
three on the following levels:
a State of Bosnia and Herzegovina: items of an international nature including the rehabilitation
of the Sava/Una rivers bridges and of Sarajevo Airport;
e  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: rehabilitation of roads, bridges and Mosn Airport,
procurement of railway and urban transport equipment, including safety equipment, and
technical assistance; and
* Republika Srpska: road and bridge rehabilitation, supply of construction/maintenance
equipment, procurement of railway, urban transport and navigation equipment to Banja Luka
Airport, and technical assistance.
56.   Under the Project, the Bank would finance, out of an IDA Interim Trust Fund    )
Credit, the total cost of the adjustment component and part of the transport invesmn
component focusing on the rehabilitation of roads, reconstruction of bridges and related mine
clearing and technical assistance, within the Federation and Republika Srpska. In addition,
aintenance equipment would be provided to Republika Srpska. The IDA (IF) Credit would
also support the establishment, within the Federation, and the strengthening within Republika
Srpska, of road administrations. The following paragaphs describe in details all subcomponents
to be financed under the investment component of the SETRP. Lists of items to be included in
the diflerent subcomponents are attached in Annexes 3 to 5.



-16-
Subcomponent 1: Roads and bridges (US$102 million)
57.   Road Maintenance Administration. A gradual increase of road maintenance to an
acceptable level is of prime concern in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Improvements are required in
both management and financing. To assist in this, a working paper on the organization and
financing of road maintenance was prepared by the Bank and submitted to both Entity Mnistries
of Transport. The proposals contained in the working paper to re-establish efficient road
maintenance activities and related budget have been generally well received. Within the
Federation Ministry of Transport and Communications (FMTC), an embryo current maintenance
unit has been set up and has so far managed the 1996-97 winter maintenance program. This unit
has also prepared a current maintenance program for 1997. A declaration of intent concerning the
setting up of a road administration at the Federation level has been sent to the Bank. It was
agreed that the road maintenance structure will consist, as a starting point, of two units: a current
maintenance unit, to be built on the unit presently existing in the FMTC and a rehabilitation unit,
to be built upon the existing Federation Project Implementation Directorate (PID). In Republika
Srpska, the road administration is presently operational but its managemet capacity needs to be
strngtened.
58.   Road Maintenance Financing. It was agreed that both Entities will allocate in 1997
about US$15 million for road maintenance activities. This will constitute a first step toward
susainability. However, estimated needs for a satisfactory financing level of road maintenance
activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina exceed US$100 million per year. Within the Federation, the
budget for road maintenance has been US$5 million for January to April 1997. Within Republilca
Srpska, the 1996 maintenance budget was about US$10 million.
59.   In addition to the routine and current maintenance activities to be funded out of budgetary
sources, US$100 million is required from the donor community for the Project, to reconstruct
firther priority bridges, landslides and tunnels on the main network and to complete rehabilitation
of the main road sections.' The program includes:
*  repair of 200 km of road sections (US$50.5 million);
*  repair of 12 bridges, including bridges on the Sava/Una rivers (US$36.1 million);
*  repair of tunnels and landslides (US$3.3 million);
*  construction and maintenance equipment for mainteance units in Republika Srpska (US$10.9
million); and
*  road safety equipment (US$1 million).
Particular attention should be paid to catching up with the repair and reconstruction needs in
Republika Srpska, where very few works were implemented in 1996. In addition, priority should be
given to the few damaged road and bridge links which may be hindering inter-Entity movements, as
wel as to links to neighboring countries.
1 BDeyd the rehabilitation phb of the primy network, the next objcive (pat of the 1998-1999 program)
would be to reduce, a extenively u possible, the backlog of mainteance on the whole road network. The
achievement of this obetive would require intenive participation of the local traport institutions.



-17-
60.   Roads. The Project would include the remaining priority links to be rehabilitated within
the Federation and would rehabilitate two main existing corridors in Republika Srpska; Bosanski
Novi/Novi Grad - Banja Luka - Bjeljina and Bjeljina -Foca/Srbjine - Trebinje. This would include
upgrading of road sections on an estimated 1,000 km of the principal network.
61.   Bridges. About ten bridges would be rehabilitated or reconstructed. It is expected that
designs would mostly follow the originals, provided that initial standards and construction
processes were adequate. In order to complete the rehabilitation of bridges on the main North-
South road from Bosanski Samac/Samac to Ploce via Sarajevo (E 73), the Karuse bridge has been
proposed for inclusion in the program. This bridge, located on the Inter-Entity Boundary Line,
has a one-lane temporary bridging structure in place which does not allow sufficient traffic flow.
62.   Sava and Una Rivers Bridges. The Bosanski Samac/Samac road/railway bridge is
proposed for complete reconstruction, whereas three other bridges on the Sava and Una Rivers
are proposed for rehabilitation under EU financing. Therefore seven out of the eleven links
between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the neighboring countries (Republic of Croatia and FRY)
across the Sava and Una Rivers would be restored.
63.   Tnneds and Landslides.  The SETRP includes the rehabilitation of tunnels and
landslides, mostly located on the road sections in Republika Srpska. The amount to be allocated
to landslides wiD have to be confirmed by both Entities, taldng into account rehabilitation of
landslides already foreseen as part of the road program.
64.   Construction and Maintenance Equipment.  Maintenance equipment would be
supplied to Republika Srpska to upgrade the maintenance units. Supply of tires is included fbr
loaders, graders and trucks used in maintenance and construction activities. The Project would
also support the upgrading of winter maintenance activities by equipping the maintenance units
with trucks and snowploughs. The upgrading component would be dedicated to physical works
equipment, necessary to gradually improve maintenance operations in Republika Srpska. Offlice
and engineering equipment would be provided through the institution building component of the
project.
65.   Road Safety Equipment. Significant discontinuities in the road network conditions, lack
of horizontal and vertical signalization, combined with an increase in vehicles and traffic are likely
to increase road accidents. To increase road safety, US$1 million is allocated to restore adequate
signalization and install crash barriers on the most dangerous parts of the primary network.
Subcompownt 2: Raihways (US$38 million)
66.   The railway network has been rehabilitated to the extent that operations on practically the
whole network are possible. The central focus must therefore be on creating conditions that will
allow traffic to resume (paragraph 32). As long as railway operations are impeded by political
difficulties, it is not recommended to include financing in the 1997 program fbr railways.
However, once it has been demonstrated over an adequate period of time that trains can run
across the network on a reasonable technical and commercial basis, donors would be encouraged



-18-
to provide further assistance to upgrade the infrastructure to acceptable standards and restore
maintenance capacities, with a special focus on international accesses. Current speed limits and
line capacities (axle load and traffic frequency) are low, and safety is of great concern. Speed
limits have to be increased, not only for more efficient operation but also to avoid excessive rail
wear, which would result in high maintenance costs. The following areas would be supported:
(i) track upgrading and re-electrification of the economically viable part of the network;
(ii) supply of signaling and telecommunications equipment; and
(iii) rehabilitation and supply of equipment and tools to maintenance centers.
The priority railway investment program is shown in Annex 4.
Subcomponent 3: Mine clearing (UJS$1 million)
67.   Civil works sites have to be cleared of mines before the start of physical works. This
subcomponent would be implemented through the arrangements defined in the Bank's Emergency
Landmine Clearing Project. The site is understood as being the effective area where works are
planned, but also includes a reasonable surrounding area, allowing some freedom of movement
and a margin of safety for construction and repair teams. Cleared areas will be clearly marked.
Any civil works contractor selected under the Project would have to obtain a Risk Assessment
Certficate and obtain specific mine-related risks insurance coverage before starting works.
Subcomponent 4: Civil aviation (US$11 million)
68.   The restoration of air traffic between Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries is a
critical element of the recovery process. Efforts, led by the EBRD and the EU, are aimed at
resuming regular commercial flights and at restoring a civil aviation authority that could handle air
tffic over Bosnia and Herzegovina - a major source of revenue before the war. Actions
required include: (i) completing the rehabilitation of the passenger terminal at Sarajevo Airport
(about US$5 million); (ii) rehabilitating the control tower and supplying equipment at Mostar
Airport (about US$5 million); and (iii) supplying additional navigational and communication
equipment to Banja Luka Airport (about US$1 million). The contents of the 1997 civil aviation
program are tentative, and will be worked out by the EBRD and the EU in collaboration with
Bosnia and Herzegovina representatives.
Subcomponent 5: Urban transport (US$13 million)
69.   This subcomponent would consist of the supply of buses, spare parts and workshop
equipment, mainly in Republika Srpska, and the supply of tram sets and related spare parts to
Sarajevo. Buses would be provided to urban transport companies selected on the basis of an
ongoing countiywide urban transport study conducted by the Iternational Managanent Group.
As a contribution to the urban transport sector rehabilitation, a "1,000 buses" operation proposed
by Italy is being considered. This operation would provide 1,000 second-hand urban buses
donated by Italian municipal transport companies. This operation is still being worked out with
cost/benefit analyses, cost-recovery mechanisms, adequate cost estimates, implementation and



-19-
filacing 1 arrangements to be precisely spelt out. The Italian Govenmment is expected to proceed
in 1997 with a pilot operation of about 100 buses, and then to build the main operation on the
lessons learned from that operation.
Sukbcomont 6: Inrllution building (US$ 2.5 million)
70.   The Project would support the build-up of transport management and plannin
organizations, as wel as of maintenance structures -- taking into account the Transportation Law
existing in Republika Srpska and being drafted in the Federation.  The Federation Road
Directorate needs to be set up and the Republika Srpska Road Directorate requires upgrading. In
general, the operation and management of the maintenance units need to be improved. There is a
crucial need for training, in order to upgrade both knowledge and management processes.
Therefore, the Project would provide support for recurrent expenditures and financing for
equipment to enable the establishment and operation of the maintenance systems. The diflerent
items proposed in the institution building subcomponent are:
(i) Project Implementation Directorates (US$1,300,000): Equipping the Republika Srpska
Project Implementation Directorate and financing operating costs of the Federation and Republik
Srpska PIDs (US$300,000) to implement Project components financed by the IDA (ITF) Credit
(see Annex 8). This allocation comprises also an estimated US$1,000,000 to cover basic
operating costs of the three PIDs to assist donors in the implementation of their respective parts
of the Project;
(ii) Assistance to the Roads Directorates (US$1,000,000): Orgnization and operating
costs of the Directorates for the Entities, including supply of equipment and necessary training;
(iii) Miscellaneous Technical Assistance (US$200,000): this item is not precisely defined
but would provide flexibility to provide Technical Assistance in accordance with needs identified
during implementation. Possible items might include:
Urban Transport Assistance: Consulting services to assist urban bus companies in
improving operations, fare collection and cost recovery and in possible privatizing of
suburban services; and
Sava River Ports Study: The water and railway traffic to and from the Sava River ports is
presently non-existent, the situation of the Brcko area is still unsettled, and an agreement
between the Governments concerned regulating activities on the Sava River has to be
reached. However, a study would be required to determne the level of future
rehabilitation and investments on the basis of the expected volume of goods shipped via
the Sava River.
m Ameo_ion of ltaian municipalities and the lulian Ministry of Foreign Affairs have indicat their inlmet
in financing part of the operation. However, additional fids would be required to cover the supply of upr
p.m



-20-
Subcomponent 7: Technical assistance (UlS$7 million)
71.   This subcomponent mainly includes assistance to the PIDs to prepare and implement the
1997 program. Foreign assistance should be gradually phased out and local consultdg groups
increasingly involved in project management. Required assistance includes services for:
(i) Project Advisory Services (US$400,000): Engineering services to assist the three PIDs
in setting up and supervising contracts financed under the IDA (ITF) Credit (see Anmex 6);
(fi) Program Management Advisor (US$1,000,000): these services, set up under the
ETRP through the International Management Group would continue in 1997.
(iii) Project Feasibility Studies, Design and Supervision (US$5,600,000): Required
feasibility studies, design and construction supervision under the Project.
VL PROJECT COSTS
72.   The estimated cost of the adjustment component is US$9 million. The estmated cost of
the transport investment component, is US$175 million (Table 4). The cost estimate for the
investment component is based, for the civil works and services categories, on average costs of
the latest contracts awarded under the ETRP, as contract prices underwent a noticeable decrease
during 1996. Furthermore, the use of ICB and NCB for works under the IDA (I1F) Credit will
support the "calibration" of the local civil works costs to international standards. The total cost
includes US$15.7 million to meet any physical contingencies for civil works and US$3.4 million
for price condngencies.



-21-
Table 4: SETRP Invetment Component Cost Estimate (USS million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....    .. ......... . .
::R-   - ,e-:-.,, . ........... .... .  _     'O
...................                          _     _     _     _
~~~~~~~~~~~~................    ..-.....                        ....................    ................
IA)Rod                                                                                             4.             s.. 
Road rehabiltation                 t        2z .       22.4         45.01.
.S awRwrbdi e                               5.3        1237    07.3              17.61   .
Brdge rehaba.       n . ......4.---.i........... ...........................a. .....  g
.Tunnel rnhablltatlon              fi       07.77        0.33         1.0Os                    0.01         1.03
Land slips                                  I4           083         2.Oj                      1.0         1.0
.Constucton and Muntenance
Equipment.7                                 O..t         8.01        8.04             .          .4
Road S     ty   inzaion                     0.07         0.          0.91                      09          0
~~~~~~~~~..........                .....  0; 1 j.j .............      ................. +
Tir.                            .     .3        ulI                                                 .7
38.86        52.1!       90.72 I
B) Railways                                                  c                                     3            1
: n 4 ............................    ...............................    ...............  ...............    ...........
:9lwois W                                    2.4-        5.6          8.01                     4.0     .    4.0
.........- -- ..........................................-                                          -9 - -s ,  ........................
SiuiallrulTelecom                           0.0sc        5.8 ~       5.8                       1.81         4.01
E lecdlicationlecump            ..... .................                         ..................3
'-- E---es---di-e o .!! !!!! !  ............. - ..................  ........ i1 3  ...............   ........................  ....
Maintenance                                  0.01 S.                  9.1i                     7.8          1.3
1Subt-Io l                                   5.81       28.4         34.21                    24.6          9.6
Q) Civil avinton                    3        2.01        7.9          9.9         4.5         4.5          0.9
D) Buss, turs, spar  parts}
:and workshop equipment                      0.0I       11.3         11.37                     2.7          8.6
.) IndtuUon  building              >        0.51         1.8         2.31         0.5          0.9         0.9
F) Technical Auddunce                       1.4          5.1         8.5,         1.5          2.3         2.7)
60) Mine cearlng                             0.2I          08       7 1.0                      0.5          0.51
H    Sa    cot                            48.4j       107.51       1559          24.1        62.4         89.4
I) Conffngencies                             4          1
0.9hysical                                   4.8           .. j      15.7,         2.4         6.3i         S.
Phsce                                        1.0c         2.4i        3.4c         0.51        1.3C         1.6
iW. ..... ... ..------- ----------- ----------------------------------------------........... ......._
VIL Project Finandng
73.   The adjustment component of the Project will be entirely financed by a part of the
proposed IDA (ITF) Credit in the amount of SDR6.51 million (US$9 million equivalent).
74.      The investment component identified financing to date includes the remaining part of the
proposed IDA (ITF) Credit for an amount of SDR21.7 milion (US$30 million equivalent),
Netherlands (US$0.2 million), and Japan (US$0.4 million grant for preparatory activities). In
addition, the EC is expected to commit about US$52 million. Furthermore, as a first step towards
financial sustainability of the transport sector, it has been agreed at negotiations tat Bosnia and
Heregovina authoities should finance part of the reconstruction program.  As such, the level of
the beneficiaries counterpart funding includes US$2.9 million equivalent to cover 10%  of the civil
works costs to be financed under the IDA (ITF) Credit. Other donors would be ncouraged to
finance at least 90 percent of their civil works component.



-22-
75.   With the Entities contributing about US$2.9 million, the remainder totals US$89.5 million
and would be sought from donors pledges made at the Third Donor Conference held on July 24,
1997 in Brussels. A financing plan of the investment component of the Project is presented in
Table 5. The scope of the Project may have to be adjusted to match the available resources, an
operation which would be facilitated by the fully modular design of the project.
Table 5: SETRP Invatment Component Financmng (USS millon)
A) Ro i                                                       25                        t 
Road rehabilbton                           l5.  22.3i   2.5  *100                                   34.80          15.7
..........................~~~~~~......  ....  ............. .................          ................   :
.Sm  Rlwr bldd s                        .    0.    0.0.              .20.0- .......                 20.00.
.....................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........  ................   .............  .................... . ,.......................
'Tunriel rehabiitatfon                 *    1     .1  00      0.0            *         *        . 0.0              1.1
2.2T 0.06   0.0                                        0.0           2.2
.......................................... . .........................                                 ----'-......................
M5otudon and                                .J.
MaintenanceEqtlpmet                          9.O1 1.2                        .                       12            7.8
................................................................................ ........... .............................. ............... ............
R.adSfty (Sigalzaan.                                                            0.2            * 0208
ITires                                  . ,.i: 0.                    .       .          .            0.0       _   1.9
WSuWddW                                    101.9127.21 2.9  .30.0  0.2   0.0   60.3                               41.6
ti) Railways                                                                                         0.0           0.0
~~~~~~~~.............................  ...............  ............................. t   ---- .----------.-------.---------  .........  ............----@ > .......- -- .......    ..................
MNilworks                                     90                       90                            9.0           0.0
;:Signmi/Telecom                             6.5          .                                          0.0            6
~~~~~~~~~~~~....................... .................. .............    ................ ...........   .........    .......   .....................  ..............
!Electdlicaton  quipmnent                   12.71                    .                               0.0           12.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........   ................   .............   .......................  ............. :2t4:.................4
Malntenance                                 10.2                                            !    0.0               10.2   1
'Sub-to                                 .   38.4                       9.01    0.0   * 0.0           9.0          29.4
cCival avIalon                              11.1                       10.0.            .           10.0           1.1
.D) Bums, trams, spare                            I
parts and worShop
equipment                                  12.71                                                    0.0           12.7
IE)Inaion building                      .2.51 0.3                                               *0.3               2.20
F) Technieal Aadaince                       7.31 2.4                  3.0              . 0.4    5.8   _  1.5
G( Mine clearini   1.1  01                                                                           010
The amount and breakdown of the EC contribution am tentaive and wil be confirmed by the EC in due
couse
76.   The allocation of Credit funding and related contributions from  the Entities for the
investment component of the Project are broken down as shown in Table 6.



-23-
Table 6: IlDA (I`i) Credit Investment Component a
(US$, including contingencies)
__                         -                                                    - .: -   .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .....................
_ - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............ ... ... ----
__                        -        ,,    ,          ,        ,,           ,     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....3.....,,,...90 .......................
A) Road rdebabltabton_
Obudova-Loncadn(R462a)                                                                    1,186,580    1,134,20                           52,290    i186,5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ......    ................................ ....................................  ..........  .......................... .........................
Loncari-Brcko (M14.1)                              ......            11,666,810                                 1,580,905                85,905            1,66,1
Brcloijeljina (M14.2)                                                                    5,114,510    4,804,505                         310,005             5,114,510
BijeIjina-Raca (M 18)                                                                    1,277,680    1,113,340                         164.  M        .. 1,277,680
.................................................................. .................... .............................. .............................. ............................. ..........
Banja Luk Gradiske (M16)                                                                 1,525,000    1,035,500                         489,500    1,525,000
....... ,iwi a   ,                    va ...(Lil... 7)..... .................." ........  .... ....... I  85 0 .... W 96....... ...................!.6..........18,0
Doboj-S    lije-Modica-.mac (                              7)                               1                  .88,500   i88,500                   00............... ..........
Derwent.-Sesllje (Ml17.2)                                   _____                        1,366,000    1,210,503                         155,497             1,366,000
Sub-total Republike S,pake                                                             12,325,080   11,067,543    1,257,537   12325,08
D. Vakuf-Bugojno (M16)                                                420,000                                     378,000                 42,000               420,000
81cMd Bmod-Srebrsnlk-Cerik (Ml 8)                                   1,070,000                                     963,000                107,000  --1,070,000
Sic  i Bm"M   -  nik Cerik(   i8)                   i!070,000 ......................................................  " ,0   0,0              !7,0
Cazin-Velika Kiadusa (M4.2)                                        1,800,000                                    1,620,000               180,000              1,800,000
.....................................................      ..................       ................ ..........................  ................2.''... 6....O.,0,...0.. .........20000
Olovo-Kadani (Ml18)                                                2,060,000                                    1,854,000               206,000    2,060,000
S   rniz    ac    iow(Mi8j                  i;200,000  ~~~~~~~~~~~~.............. ........   .....................            .........,0 0   20 ,0
SelmaoOlvo(IB                                                      120,001,080,000                                                      120,000    1,200,000
CapIJina-i jubuski  rude ( l .3                                                0 ...........0                     700,000               300,000             3,000,000
Llvno-Kartov -ian (hlB.1)                                          2,000,000                                    1,800,000               200,000             2,000,000
oo a (Mli)                                             920,000                                     828,000                 92,000               920,000
Sub- totl Federaton                                              12,470,000                                  11,223,000    1,247,000   12,470,0W
Sub-total Road rehablltIon                                       12,470,000   12,328,080   22,290,543    2,504,837   24,79,080
.................................................................................. ................................... ................................ ............. ....................... ........ . . . ..............  .....  ...............  ..   .....
.................... .... m... k..............n................................... ................................. ............... ........................... ...... ..................
B) Blridge rahabilltton
........................~.......................................................... ................................. .............................. .............................. .............................,
SuleskU (MZ0)                                                                               748,500               673,650                 74,850               748,500
.................................................................................. ................................. .............................. .............................. .............................. ,....
Mijaka (MI6.1)                                                                              650,000               585,000                 65,000               650,000
Sub-otal Republike Srpsike                                  _ _ =            _           1,398,500    1,258,650                         139,850    1,398,500
Sarajevo-Hadzid (M17)                                                 400,000                                     380,000                 40,000               400,000
Jablanica Konjic (M17)                                              1,500,000                                   1,350,000               150,000             1,500,000
.............................................. ......................   .................................. .............................. ..............................   ............................. ......
Zenica-Zepce (M 17)                                                   800,000                                     720,000                 80,000               800,000
Sub-total Federation                                               2,700,000                                   2430,000                270,000    2,700,000
Sub-total Bridge rehablitaton                                      2,700,000    1,398,500    3,688,080                                  409,80    4,098,500
.................................................................................. ................................... ................................ ........................
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................... .................................. .............................. .............................. .. ,v............................ .....
Total CMIl Works (AB)                                            18S,170,000   13,723,880   28,979,193    2,914,387   281,893,80.1
...f  ..  ""  ......... Il,..........                                           ................................... ....................
C) Construction and Maintnance
Equlpment
Supyo    aE W......... ........... ................................. .............................. ...............................................  ............
Supply of 16 tons trucle, 10 pieces                                                      1200,000    1,200,000                                              1,200,000
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................................................................................. ......................... ........................ .... ............... .... 
..................................... ......... . ......... -.....                                               ...    ..............   ...............
D) Tec hnical Assilsta nce...........................
Design and Superision mclMi es for
the CiAl Ubrks component                                            1,241,298    1,119,509    2,360,807                                                     2,360,807
4         iR                      ...............................'Il".......... ig-5 6............TO   6 ...0.. .............3...0... ,'" ..... .................      
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .............................. .............................    .................... ,................ ... ,1.............................11
.......................................... Assistance............. to.............         .. FIb.... 15,0  150,000. .......... 300,000.. 300,000...
F) Mlne ClearIng                                                        50,000                50,000              100,000l                                     100,000
Gq.Audit                                                                30,000                30,000 .60,00   ..........                                         60,000
L......................................:..   ..........:'....  ....   ..  ........   ..  .-. .........
a Including a US$I.5 million and US$1.4 million contributions, respectively from the Federaion of Bosnia and
Hcmegvna and from Rpubila Srpska, to Cover 10% of the civil work cost



-24-
VmL INSTITUTlONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT DPLEM:ENTATION
77.   The State of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the Borrower of the IDA (ITF) Credit. The
Borrower will onlend, under subsidiary agreements, the proceeds of the Credit to both the
Federation and Republika Srpska on the same terms and conditions as the Borrower shall repay
the Credit to the Association. Donors will be strongly encouraged to coordinate their activities.
In this respect, they will be advised to use the information and assistance framework provided by
the State and Entity Ministries for Transport, the Bank the Program Management Advisor and
the Transport Task Force.
78. The adjustment component of the Project will be implemented by the Republika Srpska
Ministry of Finance, with the Credit proceeds flowing to the Republika Srpska budget account.
The investment component of the IDA (ITF) Credit would be implemented through the Entities
PIDs, which will have a central role in coordination of all reconstruction activities in the transport
sector. To that effect, donors would be encouraged to use and financially support the PIDs. To
enhance the efficient use of resources, donors will also be encouraged to liaise with the Transport
Task Force in Sarajevo, comprised of representatives of the Governments and the main donors in
the transport sector, in order to ensure the appropriateness of donors' projects on the ground. On
the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Program Management Advisor, as defined under the
ETRP, as well as his two deputies, one in each entity, would assist the respective ministries in
their relations with the donor community, and the PIDs in implementing their tasks.
79.  Procurement: The following procurement section relates only to the investment part of
the IDA (IIF) Credit and Bank-administered donors' funds. Considerable experience was gained
under the ETRP. The fast-track approach 1 used for a quick contracting of works has been
uccessfl, and will also be used under the Project. Intemational competition will be used more
extensively than under the ETRP. Therefore, thresholds for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) have been lowered under the part of the Project that will be procured according to the
Bank's Guidelines. A postqualification of Bidders would be applied for each contract to be
procured following ICB or National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Procurement will
be processed in close coordination with the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit (PMAIU).
80.   Procurement under the IDA (MIT) Credit will follow the Bank's G elinc: Procwwnen
under IBRD Loas and iDA Credts, Januay 1995, Revised Jwwary 1996 wnd August 1996
and the Guidelines: Use of Consulans by World Bank Borwers and by World Bank as
&ecuang Agency, Jwauiy 1997 in all respects, except that counties that are iigible to
borrow from the IBMD or IDA and that do not parucipt in financing of the lTP will be
ineligible sources. Furthermore, with the exception of Bank administered donors' funds, which
will follow the standard Bank Guidelines, all other procurement will be on a paralle basis and will
follow the procurement procedures of each donor. A procurement plan is attached.
IXu approcwh, bah  on the Small Wora Procuremet Prooduras (paragrph 88), allown the preparton of
bidding documts to go in parallel with the design. The biddhlg documenta not to the potential bidders oonain
a indicativo bill of quantity, which is confirmed at negoiatioa.



-25-
81.   Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in Development
Business in March 1997 announcing works, goods and consultants services to be procured and
initing interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request
any complementary information from the project implementation agencies. The GPN has also
been published in Bosnian, Serbian and English in the local press.
82.   For procurement under the IDA (ITF) Credit, the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents,
modified in light of the ITF procurement eligibility guidelines, will be used. For procurement
under Bank administered trust fiinds, the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be used.
These documents have already been customized under the ETRP, approved for each component
and translated. The period allowed for submission of bids may be reduced to four weeks.
83. Goods: International Competitive Bidding (ICB): ICB will be used to procure goods for
contracts esimated to cost more than US$500,000 each. Cost of local transportation would not
be eligible for repayment under the IDA (rIF) Credit.
84.  International Shopping (IS): IS will be used for procuring project equipment and matials
estimated to cost more than US$100,000 and less than US$500,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate of US$1.0 million. IS is based on comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers in at least two countries.
85. National Shopping (NS): This method will be used to procure locally available goods, for
contracts to cost less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000,
with at least three quotations obtained from local suppliers. NS will be mainly used to procure
equipment for the PIDs.
86. Works: International Competitive Bidding (ICB): ICB for works will be used for
contracts estimated to cost more than US$2.0 milion each.
87. National Competitive Bidding (NCB): Given the dispersed nature of works (repairs of
roads, etc.), NCB is will be used for contrcts over US$1.0 million but less than US$2.0 million
per contract. However, interested foreign contractors will be allowed to participate in NCB.
88.   Small Works Procurement Procedure: Small Works Procurement Procedure will be used
for works contracts estimated to cost up to US$1.0 million per contract. These works will be
procured under lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. A list of local qualified
contractors is already available in the Federation. A similar list will be drawn up in Republika
Srpska in collaboration with the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of works, including basic specifications, the required completion
period, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawing, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to succesflly complete the
contract.



-26-
89. Direct Contracting for Works: Any direct contracting not identified in the procurement
plan will be subject to the Bank's prior approval. Such approval has been obtained for the
Ostrozac bridge on M17 between Jablanica and Konjic as this conract would cover the
completion of the bridge construction which was interrupted by the hostilities (estimated cost
US$1.5 million).
90.   The mine clearing subcomponent of the investment component of the IDA (ITF) Credit
would be carried out under the Emergency Landmine Clearance Project for Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Therefore, the procurement procedures would be those used under that project
(National Competitive Bidding in which foreign firms are not precluded from participating). The
tasks involved would be to: (i) determine whether there are landmines in the areas where project
works are to be carried out; and (ii) remove the mines where needed.
91. Services: Consultants will be engaged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, which shall
include mainly selection procedures based on Consultants' Qualifications and Least-Cost.
Procurement documentation for contracts with consulting firms exceeding US$100,000 each will
also be subject to Bank's prior review. For individuals, the prior review threshold will be
US$50,000. Follow up assignments will be permissible to the extent that this will be indicated in
the initial TORs.
92.   The project elements to be financed out of the investment part of the IDA (F) Credit,
their esfimated costs and the procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 7.



-27-
Table 7: SETHP Investment Component Procurement Arrangements 1
(US$ million, induding contingenies)
Works
Road rebabilitation                     10.2 (9.3)    13 (11.4)    1.6 (1.5)    25.7    50.5 (22.2)
Sava River bridges                                                            20.0          20.0
Bridge rehabilitation                                             4.1 (3.7)   12.0      16.1 (3.7)
Tunnel/land slips rehabilitation                                               3.4           3.4
Railway Civil Works                                                            9.0           9.0
Civil Aviation Works                                                           3.0           3.0
Mine claring                                          0.1 (0.1)                1.0       1.1 (0.1)
Sub-total                                   10.2 (9.3)   13.1 (11.5)    5.7 (5.2)    74.1   103.1 (26.0)
Goods
Construction & Maintenance Equipment     1.2 (1.2)                             7.8      9.0 (1.2)
Tires                                                                          1.9           1.9
Railway electrification equipment                                             12.7          12.7
Railway Signaling/Telecommunications                                           6.5           6.5
Railway Maienane                                                              10.2          10.2
Civil aviation equipment                                                       8.1           8.1
Buses, bams, spare parts and worlkshop                                        12.7          12.7
equipment
Road Saoty (Signaization)                                                      1.0           1.0
Sub-total                                           .                             60.9     62.1 (1.2)
Services
Institution building                                              0.3 (0.3)    2.2      2.5 (0.3)
Design & Supervision                                              2.5 (2.5)    4.8      7.3 (2.5)
Sub-total                                                             2.8 (2.8)    7.0      9.8 (2.8)
8lwnahde: Died Cntacting for wod. (DC,  r US$I.5 miUin) Sma Wod. Procut Prce (swP for uss4. mllion), himuat4ocat
Sopping (IS, for USS0.1 milion. Natio  Shopping (N. for US$0.1 maiion) Sdeeon B8uidn ComSb Qaaon (SBCQ, for US$1.3
miin), Laaa-Coimt(L  for ISS0.7 million)
b Not Bank Finc
93. Credit effectiveness is expected in early September 1997 and start of the physical
implementation in October 1997. Completion of activities under the IDA CIT) Credit is expected
fir December 31, 1999, with the proposed Credit closing six months later on June 30, 2000. The
implementation plan for the non-WDA financed part of the project will be updated by the Bank in
accordance once the breakdown of the donors' pledges made at the Third Donor Conference will
have been finalized.
94.    Prior Review: Prior review in accordance with paragaph 2 of the Appendix 1 of the
Bank's Guidelines will be followed for: (3) Goods: all ICB and IS; (ii) Works: all ICB and Direct
The poumen t arrngment. table might be modified in acordance with pledge. from don
commtted through World Bank adminired flmds. The figures in pa_athes indicate the part
finance out of the invesment component of the IDA (ITF) Credit.



-28-
Contracting contracts and the first contract for NCB and Small Works Procurement Procedure.
Terms of Reference for all consulting services as well as hiring of consulting firms above
US$100,000 and individuals above US$50,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank. To
the extent possible, this prior review will take place in the Bank's Resident Mission in Sarajevo.
95.   Disbursements: The IDA (nT) Credit would be disbursed against the project components
as follows:
Table 8: Disbursement Categories (US$ million equivalent)
A)Ad.ju_Coniponent                    9.0        |100%l
B) nvtentComponent
.  Roads/bridges                         23.2                      90%
Goods:
Trucks                                1.2          100% of foreign expenditures 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultants Services:
. Project implementation, including      2.0                      100%
audit
Incremental Operating Costs (PIDs)       0.3                      100%
Unallocated                              3.3
Sub-Total Investment Component           30.0
(inclucding contigenies)
96.   Special Accounts:  To facilitate timely project implementation of the investment
component, the Borrower would open, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special
Accounts, to be maintained and operated by each Entity through their respective PIDs, in a
currency and a bank to be agreed upon. The authorized allocation of each of the two Special
Accounts would be limited to US$2.0 million. Replenishment applications should be submitted
on a monthly basis, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
documents. The PIDs should have exclusive access to the funds concerning their respective
operations.
97.   Statements of Expenditure (SOEs): Disbursements would be made against Statements
of Expenditures for contracts (a) for works up to US$2,000,000 equivalent with the exception of
the first contract between US$1,000,000 and US$2,000,000; (b) for goods up to US$500,000; (c)
all incremental operating costs; (d) for consulting firms up to US$100,000 equivalent; and (e) for
individual consultants up to US$50,000 equivalent, for which detailed documents evidencing
expenditures will be reviewed by both PIDs and their respective Ministry of Transport and
Communications, and made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision



-29-
missions. Disbursements against contracts exceeding US$2,000,000 equivalent would be made
against normal documentation.
98.   Accounts: Separate and auditable project accounts would be established in the Entity
Ministries of Transport and Communications. The project accounts would comprise: (i) a record
of withdrawals from the IDA (ITF) Credit with copies of all disbursement requests and underlying
documentation; (ii) a record of transactions of the Special Accounts and the copies of the bank
statements on this account. Project account documentation would be maintained for one year
after they have been audited.
99.   Audits: The project accounts would be audited at the end of each fiscal year of the
Borrower by independent auditors and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Separate
audit statements would be prepared for the Special Accounts and for Statements of Expenditures.
All audit reports would be made available to the Bank at the latest six months after the end of
each fiscal year.
100. Reporting: The PIDs will prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports (see
Annex 7) showing the status of implementation of the project, as well as financial reports, in a
format and content acceptable to the Bank.
101. Supervision Plan: Project implementation would incorporate maximum flexibility in view
of the fact that it will need to be adapted to changing circumstances. Implementation progress
would be evaluated at mid-term, i.e. approximately 12 months after effectiveness. The review
would assess the need for any adjustments, based on implementation experience to date. It is
expected that the Bank Resident Mission in Sarajevo would handle most of the procurement
review and supervision of activities financed out of the IDA (ITF) Credit.
102. Enviromnmental Aspects. The Project is expected to include the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing infrastructure and as such will not require any land acquisition. The
relative small scale of works would not require the opening of new quarries or asphalt plants sites.
Furthermore, by improving badly damaged roads surface, shoulders and drainage, and removing
downed bridge decks from rivers and their banks, the Project would have a positive impact on the
environment. Therefore and as an emergency operation, the Project has not been assigned an
environmental category. However, any subcomponents which present an opportunity for
environmental enhancement will be designed accordingly, and all subcomponents will be
monitored during supervision to ensure that there is no degradation to the environment.
IX. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
103.  The adjustment component of the Credit provides the Bank with a vehicle to support
fiscal and trade reforms in Republika Srpska, which have been prominent elements in the
economic dialogue with the authorities over the last year. The policy decisions taken by
Republika Srpska authorities and enacted into law in the trade and customs areas, the adoption of
a sound budget for 1997, the measures to be taken in cooperation with the Bank in implementing
the budget as well as the trade and customs laws constitute important first steps toward ensuring



-30-
sustainability of macroeconomic policies. Also, the authorities are putting in place an overall
reform framework with the purpose of developing a market based economy rapidly. Meanwhile,
a clear need exists for fiscal resources to support urgent social expenditures and external debt
servicing obligations. During 1996, IDA's Board approved eight projects providing financial
support to both Entities. However, none of them provided adjustment assistance to Republika
Srpska in support of macroeconomic reforms. Such support was provided to the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina through the IDA-supported Transition Assistance Credit.  The
adjustment component supported by this project should be seen as the first element in a program
of envisaged adjustment lending from which Republika Srpska will benefit. Further adjustment
credits could be considered in late 1997 and beyond in support of firther reform of public
finances, as weil as privatization of enterprises and banks - but the timing of the support will
depend crucially on reform measures being adopted.
104. With respect to the transport investment component, the Project derives from the
Reconstruction Sector Reports prepared jointly by the Bank, the EBRD and EU for the
Information Conference held in January 1997, and the third donors' conference. The sector
reports emphasize that to restart production and employment on any significant scale,
economically important rail and road linkages have to be secured quicldy. The investment
component of the Project therefore supports a key objective in the Bosnia and Herzegovina
reconstruction strategy, namely the rehabilitation of the transport network, to underpin the
reconstruction and economic development of the country. As the World Bank has taken the lead
in the international reconstruction effort and in coordinating aid to Bosnia and Herzegovina,
substantial IDA involvement is of prime importance in order to mobilize the required resources.
105.  Economic Justification. For the road subcomponent of the investment component, the
ERR has been estimated at more than 30%, using the Highway Design and Maintenance
Standards Model (HDM) III model (see Annex 9). Part of the data used in the economic
evaluation are best estimates; in the absence of precise information and the still highly changing
traffic patterns. Traffic growth has been estimated at about 3 to 4% per annum, and vehicle
operating costs were calculated using input data from the Albania-adapted HDM III model. For
other civil works subcomponents of the investment component, including mainly reconstruction or
rehabilitation of bridges and rehabilitation of landslides all located on the principal network, the
rates of return are expected to be high since: (i) downed bridges are critical bottlenecks causing,
at certain locations, long waiting times. Furthermore, damaged bridges are being used, despite
the constant risk of coilapse; and (ii) rehabilitation of landslides will avoid fiuther degradation of
the road sections.
106. Moreover, the Project will support the restart of industry by re-establishment of transport
links; and jobs will be created directly for the construction and local consultant industry through
the road and bridge reconstruction and maintenance program. As a serviceable transport system
is essential for the economy, the project will also indirectly support the creation of jobs
throughout the territory.
107. Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA InvolvementL A multitude of important lessons has
been learned from Bank-supported emergency projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina during 1996,



-31-
covering adjustment and investment operations. At a cross-sectoral level, the Bank has learned
important lessons as to the institutional framework necessary to allow timely and sustainable
reconstruction investments to take place in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
108.  Regarding the adjusmnent component, a recent Country Portfolio Performance Review
highlighted that close attention must be placed on implementation of underlying reforms and the
execution of the budget as planned. The experience from the previous adjustment operation, the
Transition Assistance Credit, suggests that specific arrangements should be made to ensure that
counterpart funds finance agreed priority expenditures. This lesson has been taken into account in
the design of the proposed adjustment component, which would help to support agreed priority
social expenditures and debt servicing obligations set out in the Republika Srpska's approved
1997 budget.
109. As for the transport investment component, lessons learned while implementing the
ETRP have been taken into account as foilows: (i) the fast-track civil works procurement
approach used under the ETRP has been successful, allowing for quick award and implementation
start of the contracts. This approach will also be used under the Project; (ii) foreign technical
support has been crucial in 1996, and the Bank recommends that it be maintained at a reduced
level in 1997, in order to gradually increase the technical responsibilities of local authorities and
consultants; (iii) rehabilitation requires not only repairs but also maintenance.  Thus far,
IFOR/SFOR has assisted in most critical maintenance works but this will not continue. Entity
authorities have to assume these responsibilities -- and need to be supported to that effect. Under
the institution building component of the Project, assistance in maintenance organization, supply
of basic equipment to undertake maintenance, and staff training will be provided to both Entities'
Road Administrations; and (iv) the institutions involved in the transport sector should receive the
funding necessary to fulfill their mandate. Both Entities' Governments have been requested to
allocate adequate budgets to road maintenance.
Risks
110.  The main project-specific risks in the adjustment component of the Project stem from
possible weaknesses of the Republika Srspka authorities in the implementation of the 1997
budget, and in the implementation of planned reforms in the fiscal, customs and trade areas, and
possible slippages in policy planning and execution of further reforms, in particular, enterprise and
bank privatization, and less than whole-hearted engagement in the pursuit of market oriented
reforms. The risks in the policy areas would be addressed by the Bank continuing to maintain its
strong policy dialogue with the authorities and by a concerted program of technical assistance by
the Bank and by other donors in all the reform areas -- this wider program of technical assistance
is being coordinated by the Bank. The Republika Srpska authorities have shown increasing
responsiveness to the policy dialogue with the Bank. The Bank intends to maintain this intensive
policy dialogue with the aim of ensuring that reform policies in line with the Dayton/Paris Accord
are adopted. Risks are mitigated also by the program of adjustment lending currendy under
discussion with the authorities covering public finance reform and support of enterprise and bank
privatization within the context of promoting a market based economy.



-32-
111. Regarding the investment component, both the Governments and the Bank are better
prepared, thanks to the implementation of the ETRP, to handle project related risks. Assuming
that peace is maintained, project risks include: (i) overextending the local construction capacity
(not less than five infrastructure projects will be implemented this year). To mitigate this risk,
local contractors will be advised to form joint ventures with foreign companies and NCB as wel
as ICB would be broadly used; (ii) delays in implementation due to the fragility of institutions.
However, the implementation of the ETRP has already strengthened the institutions and the
technical assistance to be provided under the Project wil ensure adequate institutional capacity;
(iii) delays in program progress due to a slow implementation of the mine clearing component. So
far, however, under the ETRP, mine clearing activities have not constituted an obstacle to works
progress; (iv) failure to close the financing gap. If participation from the Donors' Community
partly fails to materialize, the scope of the project will be adjusted downwards to match available
resources. As the bulk of the project is made up of smal subcomponents providing flexibility in
implementation such that the project can be easily adjusted; and (v) failure in providing
counterpart funds, mainly for maintenance. Clear targets and vigorous supervision wil be needed
to manage these risks.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
112. During negotiations, the following matters were discussed and agreed with the Borrower
and the Entities, as respect to the Project investment component:
(i) The creation of a Federation Road Directorate;
(ii) Each Entity Government has committed itself to allocate in 1997 about US$15 million
to road maintenance activities;
(iii) Lending and onlending arrangements;
(iv) PIDs Terms of Reference and staffing;
(v) Procurement arrangements; and
(vi) Financial and Audit arrangements;
113. Conditions of effbctiveness and disbursement would be: (i) execution of the Project
Agreement on behalf of the Administrator and an Entity; (ii) execution of the Subsidiary Credit
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and the Entity; and (iii) receipt of legal opinions that both
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Credit Agreement have been duly executed and are
legally binding upon the parties.
114. By reaching the above agreements, the Project would be suitable for a SDR 28.2 million
(US$39 million equivalent) Credit under the standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity, to the
Borrower.



-33-
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction
Project
Transport Investment Component
Annexes






Anne 1
BOSNIA AND HERZIGOVINA
Secnd Em      rgency Transpt  o        n    Project
Procuremet Plan
Component            Totadl        ikely      Indicative  Invitation  Contract    Worl/       AUl
Cost      Procurment    number of   to bid    Award   manuftur   Woik/delivery
US$ mil.     Medhods       contracts                        boegm       complete
Road rehabilittion   22.3    ICB/NCB/SWPP    3/8/4    10-11/97  11-12/97         3/98         8/99
Brdge rehabilitation    3.7   DC/NCB/SWPP        1/4      10-11/97  11-12/97     3/98         11/99
Equipment             1.2       ICB/IS/NS        1/2       11/97     11/97      12/97         6/98
Technical aitance     2.7       SBCQ/LC          37/3      9/97      9/97       10/97         11/99
Mine clearing         0.1          NCB            I        10/97     10/97      11/97         3/98
a ICB: Internadonal Competitive Bidding; - DC: Direct Contracting, - NCB: National Competitive
Bidding, - SWPP: Small Works Procurement Procedure; - IS: International Shopping; - NS: National
Shopping; - DC: Direct Contracting; - SBCQ: Selection Based on Consultmts' Qualifications; - LC: Least
cost.



* ~iX I;,i  E
I~~ Iti------------ i{
'-i--i-i--i-            I'
F'
-                                                    III= %
at         m   m  m  li                                        I   1 4........................................[................... .....................
..   .   ..m.m. ..U                  i ~ .. .   .....  ...........
......  .   .   ....    ...    ..  .   ....     ........   ... ............    .............r .  .....



Bosnla and Herngovina                                   Annex 3
Second Emergency Transport Reconstuction Project                    Pa  I of 7
Republika Srspka Road Subcomponent (US$)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  .,     .    .,  -....... ... ...... ....................    -.,-,-..-...    ... .....  
.. .;                  l .                     g  -
-F      N                    @Q               ]- 3 -a -   -t:| -                      .!iuT
Mr, l r7iXL -- F -1. 7r -   .1 -                         -      -       Lhi
-ZE;       1       :I                     - ;YE1XJ ]
EU              _____-< _itz  t5_ g                                    -E_    -    {S! ;;;E
EU IJ  =D3i  _''              rr in3               _    9     1 int @X .]         hlE:
EU  sE                   ,         _ , _ .1_*i'E  -
EUTM  _           _  _  _ _  _  _t           *- rt   - J i L 1   @  l t E l  <  A 11   F  woX;]4-
IC  =ii EX I_=FL'j   * c@@t@]F**l
l,*, lr --                                         __*         T K-3 * x ]
[  Jl F-i-A3                                * W:_L>- _-C- _ X           --_ . r .3E             -,
Z, 3 =I7LMED 7 _ I -  [-                     *             *-        - -  3
-  -~:7                            -     ii  El 7S7 1.                                        .
-E;3X -s311 - m 3 ~~   



Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                        Annex 3
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project                                              Page 2 of 7
Republika Srmpka Bridge Subcomponent
(US$)
Demolilton at dama9a ed srcure,
temporary devation over existng
D. PolJe irod na           bridge, oomplets reownstruction
1 M18  Drini km 69+308    Bistica   necessary                        5-        45-    1.073,900 W
2 M20  Gecko - TJenti     sueska  Tsmporary deviaion, complete           42    338      748,500.00   673,650.00
km 34+645                  reconstrucion
4 M 16.1 Pmjavor- Derventa Vijaka    Construcion now permanent bridge    56    448      649,200.00    584,280.0
km 47+932 
Replacement of one span and exta
5_      Srbinje-Gorazde    Drina (N) external footpaths                 115     175        327,000
Temporary dvidaion, demolfflon of
Kijuo-Mrkonjic Grad        damaged structure, now bridge
7 M 5   km 62+477         Ponor    necary                                46     414        660,200 
Temporary bridges over rebult plem In
place, reconstruction completion
bis 1M17  Maglaj-Doboj     Karuse I/ required                            110     880       2,500,000
Banja Luka-reinac
8 M4   km6+659            Vrbania   Completion of new structure          90     150        102,000_
Total                       _                                  419   2,703       5,958,800     1 2579
1/ This bridge Is located on the border between the two Entitles and Is expected to be
financed out of the 1997 EC contribution.



Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                       Annex 3
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project                                             Page 3 of 7
Repubilka Srspka
Equipment Subcomponent (US$)
1 Asphalt plant, 80 t/h                      1  700,000       700,000
2 AsphaK Cold Mling Machine (2500 mm)        1  200,000       200,000
3 AsphaK cuting Machine with diamond saw    10   20,000       200,000
Seilf proplled asphaK paver                 2                400,000
5 Steel roller                               4   25,000       100,000
6 Rubber roller                              2   60,000       120.000
7 Grader (55V or similar)                    4 4  200,000     800,000 _    _    _
8 Loader (98OF or similar)                   8  160,000    1,280,000
9 Excavator                                  6  180,000    1,080,000
10 Bulldozer 180kW and more)                  3  200,000       600,000
I I I Distributor                             a   80,000       480,000
1;18 ton trucks                              30  120,000    3,800,000        1,200,000
13 White line stipers                             1W,000 72  200,W00
14 Workshop equipment                        1    50,000       500,000
TOTAL                      =               10,260,000      1,200,000
SPARE PARTS
I Tyres 20.5 x 25 (Loader)                 160    4,700        . .... 752,000
2 Tyres 14 x 24 (Grader)                    9o    2,460       220,500
3 Tyres 6.5 x 16 (Distributor)              90      280        23,400 
4 Tyres 11 x20                             500      720       360,000 |
5 Tyres 12 x 20                            500      800S      400,000 |
6 Tyres 7.5 x 15                            601   M720         43,200
7 Tyres 8.25 x 15                           601     520        31,200 _
TOTAL                                                              0 1,830,300  o



Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                          Annex 3
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project                                                Page 4 of 7
Republika Srpska
Tunnel Subcomponent (US$)
Othew 9 tunnels
km 0796 -km 5,703                           i                          _ ___
4M M20   Road secion SrbInj:-Gacko,
3 tunnesk knm 30,773 kmu 31655                       139i,230    2_,220 |2,000
5 M 5    Road seton Ljubogoata -Pale- Meslci
Kalovita Brda, km 22,180-km 22,384        204         3,400    50,500 |4,000
| tamboldcl, km 36.639 - km 37.494                      855     1,750    34,250     37000
I      TOWal                                     2,548        33 06    461230    50=250   1,1



Bosnia and Henegovina                                                       Annex 3
Second Emergency Transport Reconstrction Project                                          P    5 of 7
Republika Srpska
Bu Subcomponent (USS million)
IBanjo Luka mew   I         2  0.321   10    : 1.1  10   0.7   22    2.12     1
recon.         255  02                                 0.8
2 Doboj      new             |    T    8  0.88   3  0.21   11    1.09        0.3        0.
recon.          I    T   2  0.14   2   0.1    4    0.24
3 BUOIjina   new            2  0.32   a8  0.88              la      1.2      0.3        0.
l       ~~~reown.       21  0.2   21 0.146     41    0.341
4 SaraJevo    new                      10   1.1   5  0.35   15    1.45         1         1
recon.          I _         56 0.35   5'  0.25   10    0.6
5] Teblnje   new                        a 8  0.88    3  0.21   11    1.09    0.3        0.
roon.                     2  0.14   21 0.1    4       0.24
6 Pnjedor   inew            2  0.32    8  0.881       _      10      1.2     0.31       o.
________ Irecon.          2  0.24    2  0.14     1    1   41   0.381
Li~ ~ ~~~~~                                                           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ _0  1.2  0.3.
7Broko      new            2  0.32    8  0.881                                  ____
________ Irecon.          2  0.24    2  0.141              4     0.38
8 Zvomlk     new            2  0.32 __8  0.8                10       1.      0.         0
9S~~Inj.  rown.          2  0.24    2  0.4        -.     1      109030.
__ Srbinje   _ Inew   Ia _ 1   8  088                  0.21   11    1.09       0.3        0.
Irown. I                2_           2   0.1    41   0-24 _
- - -   - '  : '. - - - -



Bosnia and Hezegovina                                                    AgeIWx 3
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project                                        Page  o 7
Federationt of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Road Subcomponent (USS million)
5|M18  ID. Vkuf-Bugojno                  10.00[         a         Overlay            0.42 T     03
1 1Ml18  18ickd Brod- 8rebrenik - Cerlk      42.00t      3   T    Overlay             1.07 T      00
11|MIS  |Olovo -KladanJ|  28.00t      3   IRehab. &Overlayt                           2.0B7      18
31M18  |8ermzwc-Olovo                |37.00[            9         Overiay            1.22       1.10
2 M17  Visoko - Lasvm                1  30.001      1  4   1   Overay    1           0.92 |     0.83
14|M5   iLasva - Travnik - Turbe      |  33.001      1 4&8   1   Overlay    I         3.53 1
24 |M 16..Jablanica - Prozor - G.Vakuf  I  50.001    I        IRehab. & Ovelday       1.90 I
40|MB.1 |Caplina-LjubusWd-Grude       |  59.001      I 7&8  IRehab. &Ovedlay          3.00|      2.70
22 M6.1 Livno-Krbov-Han               |  12.00       1  10  IRehab.&Ovediay           2.001      1.80
8SM 4.2 |Caztn - Velika - Kidusa     I       I        I 1    Rehab. & Overlay        1.87       1.68
28 M 5   Bihac - Bo. Petrovac - Kijuc.    91.001     I   1    Rehab. & Overlay        2.50
1     1 Finanal  undw Me SETRP      1 390.001     T        T                       20A1        11I
O The tentatve budget for road # 24 has ben reduced from US$ 3.9 million to US$ 1.9 million
as EBRD has already allocated US$2 million under the 1996 program for the reabiUtatlon
of th Jablmnlc-Prozor secon.



Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                    Annex 3
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction                                           Page 7 of 7
Project
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bridge Subcomponent
(USS million)
I M17      ISarajevo - Hadzlel                  201         9          0.401            .6
2 M 17      Jablanica - KonJic                 153 .7                   1.50           13
3 M 17      Zen!cZeo                           129          4           0.80           07
a M5        Bihac                                           I           0.50
14 MO.1      Most u CaplJini                    402          7          6.70
Total finandng                  9.90            2.43



Anne 4
Page  of 6
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Transport Reconstrnction Project
Railway Subcomponent (US$)
Descrpton                                           Cos Estimate
Novi Grad - Dania Luka
CIVIL WORKS
- Cleani  the culverts tnmsport to depots, 24,000 m                                      800,000
SIGNALIZATON AND COMUNMCATIONS
- Signl sfeVplants:
Sevice post Snjegotina
Safely System: electical                                                                  56,600
-Silsfeyplants:
Service post: Piskavica
Saft  yten eectrical                                                                      44,000
- PftWiGn of equipment, tools, insments and vehicles
for working teams in workshops and for technical  vces300
- Signa afetplantr                                                                       300.000
Service post Prisoje
Safety sstm: elecbomechanical
- Signal safety plands:                                                                   30,000
Service post. Ukrina
Safet system: eectromechanical
- Signal safety plant:                                                                    43,300
Service post Celin
Safety stem: e      chaical
- Sigal safty pl1an:                                                                      41,300
Sevice post Vrbanja
Saft system: electomechanical
- Signal safetyplats:                                                                     45,30
Service post: Ramici
Safety ystem: eectrical
- Signal soaafty pant:                                                                      ,600
Service post Potkzmje
Safet systm: electi                                                                       44,000
- Snlv  #fYPpan0
Service post Omaska
Saft "sten: electromechanical
- Signal safety plonts:                                                                   56,600
Service post Kozarac
Safety system:    rechanicl                                                               69,3a
- Signal saqft  pt:
Service post Prijedor
Saft  sstem: ele mechanical                                                               54
- Signal sfety plants:,
Service post Brezicmd
Safety ystemn dectrmcanical
- Sfinal sayplans:                                                                        56.600
Service post Svodna
Saft system: letomechanical                                                               48,000
-Signalsfety plaf:40
Service post Blgaj
Safty system: electmechlanical
- Sial afey plants:                                                                       4,000
Service post Novi Grad



Annex 4
Pug. 2 of 6
Sae    m eleic                                                                      Cost EsFmte
D escripton                                         _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _
Noil Grad - Baula Luas
- S4iga ,qtphant                                                                          56,600
Savice post Ramnice
Safety sytm: e    _oacbmncal
- Sfaps   gyplant:                                                                        34,600
Sevice post DobTljm
ISdety rAtem: dlecronchcal                                                                36,600
Subotal                                                                                1,952,80
Descziption                         ~~~~~~~~Cost Estinate
Bsula Luka-Dobol
SIONALZATION AND COMMUNICAIION
- Signal  Ay ipkmt,:
Service post: Bunja Lua
Saey system: elercrmchanical                                                              35,300
- Signa aq"xyplants:
Service post: "Lignoper" cross road                                                      174,600
- Sina sqf.typk.
Service post &pdka Kostajnica
Sft      mn eecticcal                                                                     73,300
Savic post RudankP
Safety system: Manical                                                                    13,300
- Sow,l xf'YPLt&b:
Sevice post Staovi
Safty system: "SIGMA" - dectia                                                            26,600
- Signl e4yplmaU
Service post Odnja
Saifety stm  electical                                                                    30,000
- Signa .Afetplanta
Service pot: Stanari
Sft   stem: M al                                                                          24,600
-Stip. fupklt:
Service post Dugalovoi
Safety Ytm  elctomnenical                                                                 26,600
-fSigal aqwe*plaIn
Sevice post Jaoavka
Seysystem: eectrmecbanic.l                                                               103,300
Subtotal                                                                                 507,600
Cost Estimate
Doboj - Pew
CIVIL WORKS
- Civil uagw*at   acvideus - subbuwu
Repair of tde Doboj - Petovo bridg  2 pcs                                              120,000
- Civil mghwwbag acUavia  - anbtuwre
Sboteretng of the mnnel walls. 600 m.                                                   80.000
- Ciil aglmrht. adh'lts - asubare
Reilitaihon of sope                                                                    533,300
- Chifl s_uwge   g actlea - AupeuvCtu
10.000 pco of deepes to be changd                                                      600,000
- Civil ghsew*B acft  vilis - aup,vtntwv
filing up die road gavd - 15000 m.                                                       566,600
- Civil mmginea*g aciiitla - aupmbutuce
Switch sructe to be chanSed separatey 100 m.                                            120,000
- Civil cuagha g alvUes - mbwture



Anex 4
Page 3 of 6
Stucues on bridges to be changed 360 pcs.                                           160,000
- Civil gneering activities - saubtr.cwwh
Description                                                                    Cost EsFimate
Dobol - Petrvo
Repair of slips. 2 pcs.                                                             160,000
- Civil enginw ing activltie, - aubstnatn
Setfing the canals with concrete                                                   200,000
- Civil engineerg activifes - superutuctige
Tracks and curves to be changed - 10 kn.                                            633,300
ELECTRFICATION
- Electc measug of puimary pmetes. Locating
the spots of interuption with opening and closing the
joined pieces. Providing and placing the cable, digging
and choking the tnches, providing the joined pieces.
Final measuing.
- Repair of mechanical and electrical mechanical                                    198,292
devices
100,000
SIGNALIZATION AND COtMMUNICATIONS
- Providing and installing the induction phone
appratuses                                                                           44,000
- Track snal telecom. cable Electrical meuring of
all the paramete. Locatng the spots of interuption
with opening and closing the joined pieces, p g
and placing the cable, digging and chking the trances.
Providing the joined pieces.
- Providing and installiOn the leaden geneator                                      480,970
batteries with capacity of 97 Ah/60V-300 A4/60V.
Providing and plugging the rctfir.
- Rehabilitation of exstg ones, providing and                                        78,600
insang the new twac phone cabinets.
- Changing the telegaph temindl facilities by PC                                    377,600
configuration of 486 class.
- Proving the cable-interruption locators Providing                                  12,000
the marke route-cable locator Ptoving the tools for
placing the cable. Providing the telecom. tools for
tehnicians.
- Electrical measuring of all the paraetes. Locating                                 13,300
the spot. of intption with opening and closing the
joied pi Providing and placing the cable, digging
an choking the trenches, provding the joed piecs.
Fina measuring
- Repair of relay devicos in the Bosanska Polja
station                                                                             134,801
- Rqeair of cabls, tk & local phone lines
- Radioelay devices                                                                 130,000
150,000
160.000
MAINTENANCE
- Equipment instuments and tools for electrical
technical device maintenance                                                        130,000
- Procurmt of tools & equipment for technical
inspection service                                                                  300.000
Sub-toal                                                                           5,742.763



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
Descmiption                                      Cast Estimate
Think. - Z.viirlk
SIGNALIZATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
- Repair of signal-safety devices                                                         50,000
- Rqpair of track cable and staton telecom. devices
- Poritable BMB/s system                                                                 120,000
75.000
MAINTENANCE
- Equipenmt, tools & nstuments needed for
maintenance of electr-technical devices                                                   20,000
Sub-total                                                                                265,000
Dasmiption                                       Cost Esimate
DoboJ-ZesWcs
CIV WORKS
-Repair of ballas profile & subgrade at tbe whole
scion fiom Z7i to Dc1                                                                    350,000
ELECRIFICATION
- Recntuction line of 25Kv, 50 Hz, tracton line 4
by-pass feeder, equipment for stretcing of baction
line and earthing of the Zenica - Magj sections (75
kn)                                                                                    3,895,000
- Partis repair of the Zavidovici lectrical twation
suibion                                                                                   83.000
SIGNALUATION AND COMMNMCAIONS
- Repir of trk cable, trk & local phone Ines                                             100,000
MAINTENMCE
- Procument of heavy motor trolley with crane for
track repair & maintna                                                                   400,000
- Procurement of equipment & tools for iastucthn
repair & maint e                                                                         820.000
Sub-total                                                                              5,648,000
Description                                      Cost Estimate
7VIC-i fr.iievo,
CIVIL WORKS
- Repair of ballast profile on the Sarjevo-Visocko
TNIck section                                                                            800,000
- Repair of subgmde and all the gauges in the Sarujevo
junction, being cut, damaged and out of fluction
___________TRI __________A_________ON_______                                           2,750.000
ELECrTRIFICATION
- Reconction of 25 kV & 50Hz contact line, roling
& roudabout line, setchng & earzhing equipment at
the Sarajevo-Visoko seton                                                              1,800,000
SIGNALIZATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
- Repair of 9 sigal-fty stations ptially destro
- Repair of 22 signalsfety level cmssings                                                900,000
- Rqair of track cable, trac & loco telephone line                                       500,000
150,000



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
Description                                     Cost Estimate
Zenca-sramjevo
MANTENANCE
- Repair of infiastructure maintenance workshop in
Alipasin Most (lst phase)                                                              350,000
- Repair of sectioning plants (regular & with neutral
line), 5 pieces                                                                       200,000
- Procurement of equipment & tools needed for
infrastucture maintenance                                                             280,000
- Procurement of equipment & tools for repair of
locomotives & wagons for Zenica                                                        800,000
- Procurement of equipment & tools for technical
inspecion service                                                                      100,000
-Procurementof a heavy motor trolley with 125 t.
crane                                                                                2,500,000
- Procurement of machine used for installing and
settling of surfacing prism                                                            500,000
Sub-total                                                                           11,630,000
Description                                     Cost Estimate
SaraJevo - CSDiba                               _
ELECTRIICATION
- Repair of power supply system used by 10 stations                                    150,000
- Reconstruction of contact line, 25kV, 50 Hz, 137km
of trcton line and by-pass feeder, banging &
stretcing, and earting equipment                                                     5,425,000
- Constuction of Rastani electrical tmction substation                               1,800,000
- Partal reconstuction of the Konjic electrical tracdon
substaion                                                                             440,000
- Patial repair of the Blazuj dectrical traction
substaton                                                                              354,600
SIGNALIZATION AND COMAUNICATONS
- Repair of 4 level crossings                                                         200,000
MAINTENANCE
- Repair of sectioning plants, 6 pieces                                               600,000
- Repair of the Mostar workshop for infrastructure
maintec (1st phase)                                                                  1,081,000
- Procurement of equipment & tools for infrs_tucture
maintAnce                                                                            1,600,000
- Procument of tools & equipment for technical
inspection semvice                                                                    300,000
- Repair of a tamping machine 08-32 No. 2327 Plaser
& Theurer                                                                             811,200
- Installation of Robel locks in 10 stations totally
destryed                                                                               100,000
Sub-total                                                                           12,861,800
Description                                     Cost Esfimate
Podlgovi - Vars 
CIVILWORKS
- Repair of ballast profle & subgrade                                                  280,000
SIGNALUATION AND COMMUNCATIONS
- Repair of telecom. devices                                                            20,000
Sub-total                                                                              300,000



Amex 4
Page 6 of 6
Description                                      Cost Estimate
Damovid - Brcko
CIVI WORKS
- Repair of ballast profile & subgrade                                                   150,000
- Repair of stee bridge between the Bukovac & Brcko
stations, 55+131 Ian                                                                     250,000
- Repair of steel bridge between the Bukovac & Brcko
statio  58+343 km                                                                        130,000
SIGNALIZATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
- Repair of elecLical-mebanical & mechnical signal-
sa-t  devices                                                                            500,000
- Repair of level crossing devices                                                       100,000
- 8MB radio-relay station device                                                         270,000
MAINTENANCE
- Procument of equipment & tools for ifrfiastnctue
repair & maintenance                                                                     300,000
- Prom ent of equipment & tools for repair of
locomotives & wagos                                                                      800000
Sub-totl                                                                               2,500,000
Descriptio                                       Cost Estimate
oamslm Otokm - Bosansld Drenmovac 
CIVIL WORKS
- Repair of damaged snbgrade and repair of ballast
pofile on the tack                                                                       350,000
ELECTRICATION
- Reconstuction of contact line of 25 kV, 50 Hz, 68
km of rolling and roundbout line, sretcing
equipment for traction line and earthing                                               2,630,000
- Ptial repair of Biihac & K. Vakuf electricl traction
ssations                                                                                290,000
SIGNALIZATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
- Repair of sigpal-afbty station devices                                                 180,000
- Radiovelaydevice                                                                       135,000
- Resir of tra  cable & local teecom. cabls                                               50,000
MATEANCE
- Proczenent of equipmet and tools needed for
irfiassetut maintenance                                                                  400,000
- Procwmt of equipment &k tools for repair of
locemooives and vW4                                                                      800,000
- Proueet of equipment & tools for toobnkal
inspwction sennce                                                                        200,000
-      oepai of sectio   plants, 4 ieces                                                 200,000
Sub-total                                                                              5285,000
Cost Esdmate Summary (ISS)
Description                                        Fedaution      Republ Srp             Total
CIVIL WORKS                                          4,530,000            4,503,200       9.033,200
ELECTRIFCATION                                       16,867,600             298292       17,165,892
SIGNALIZATON AND COMMUNICATIONS                       1,985,000           4.616,671       6 601 671
MANTMENANCE                                          12,042200            1,550,000      13,592,200
Total                                               35,424,800           10,968,163     46,392,963



Bosnia Herzegovina                                                            Annex 5
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project                                               Page 1 of 2
International Bridges Subcomponent (US$)
ove th Sav _ w   _                               789         1  De*Uoyed rnidcde span and joint on the next span              1,500,000.01
Bride atGrkaover the Save rive                         250         55Desbm,d one span on the left ldde of.the river                 1,655,840.01
Brige t Smacover the Sava nver                          545            De"oed spans                                                12,300,000.0t
Brldge at Srpska Racs over the Sava river                  400            R=pacmn of th_ok                                             4,568,451.00
Total       20,024,291.00
1/: Alternave, construction of a nw roadbndge on edsling plers just West of the bridge (esimated cost US$8,890,000)



Bosnia Herzegovina                                                           Annex 5
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project                                              Page 2 of 2
Tentative Airports Subcomponent (USS)
Sarajevo         Completing the rehabilitaiton of the passenger terminal                5,000,000.00
Mostar           Rehabilitation of the control tower and supplying equipment            5,000,000.00
Bunja Luka       Supplying additional navigational and communications equlpment         1,000,000.00
Total  11,000,000.00



Anex 6
Pap I of 4
Bosnia and Hergovina
Second Emergency Trmport Reconstruction Project
Road Advisory Service.
Terms of Reference
1.    ObQective:  The purpose of the assignment is to provide assistanc, through Road
Advisory Sevices, to: (i) the Project Implemenion Directortes (PEDs) of both the Pedeation of
Bosnia and HErzegovina and Republika Srpska, to start the iementaion of the Bank-financed
part of the Second Emergency Transport Reconstuction Project (SETRP); and (ii) as requid, the
Fedeation PII) to complete the implmentaion of the Bank-mied part of he E_mgncy
Transport Reconstruction Project (ETRP). The task will coonsist mainly in setting up and
supervising the conacs for works, goods, and services to be financed under the IDA and I1T
Credits. The services will commence early August 1997 and are expected to be compld by end-
Doeember 1997, date by which most of dte ETRP compoets should be completed, and the
implm ion of the SETRP should have substay progressed. If activities under the ETRP
cannot be completed by  e, the Road Advisory Services will propose such reasonable lter date
as the completion of te remaining activites under the ETRP shall permit. It is expected that,
toward the end of the services, additional consultants will be gradually compleme_n the Road
Advisory Services tam, in order to ensure a smooth transition between the diffent supervision
teams.
2.    Bwlunmd: Conscious of the need to rebuild the traport inhftcture of Bosnia and
Herzegovia follwig the recent war, the World Bank, in partnrsip with the European Unin
and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Devdopment (EBRD), has prepared in 1996 the
ETRP, totaling US$163 million. The implementation of the ETRP has started last Spring and is
progressing satisfactorily, with so far, 68% of the IDA Credit disbursed, and about USS10
milLon secured in cofinancing. In addition, given the magnitude of the damage, the SETRP has
been prepared, and is expected to be approved in the near future.
3.    Scone of consultin. services: The Road Advisory Services will work closely with the
Federation and Republima Srpska PIDs as their main counterat. The Terms of Reference of the
PIDs have been agreed by the reprsives of Bosnia and Hezevina during the negoatio  of
both the ETRP and SETRP. The Road Advisory Services will coopert with the World Bank's
Resident Mission in Sarajevo as well as with other relevant agencies in the peformance of their
Services. In addition, the Roads Advisory Services will provide, as necessary, assistance to the
Fedeaion and Republika Srpska Road Directoates.  The Road Advisory Services will be
expected to travel thwoughout the country as conditions permit but should be aware that some areas
and facilities have boen mined and they should not venture into such areas or facilities before they
have been certified clear of mines.
The main tasks to be performed are as follows:
(i) arnging feasibility studies and design contacts;
(ii) supervising the designs;



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
(iii) preparing bidding documents, inviting bids and awarding contracts. It is reminded
that the Bank is finaing the SETRP out of an ITF Credit, which implies that a certain number of
countries, including the U.S., are ineligible to participate to Bank-fn    contacts tendering. An
exhaustive list of those countries will be provided to the Road Advisory Services and the PDs
after approval of the SETRP by the ITF Committee;
(iv) assistig in construction supervision; and
(v) assisting in procuring goods. This will include under the SETRP, the procurement of
cars and computer equipment to the Republika Srpska PllD.
5.    Investirnation: The Road Advisory Services will assist the PIDs in determining, if required,
the investigation needed regading the scope of works scheduled. They will, prior to (and as a basis
for) finaling the road and bridge repair progmm, carry out a riding quality survey and drive-over
visual assessment of the roads and bridges under considation. They will detennine the technical
specifications and underline issues due to special studies when needed.
6.    Consultant services and desioms suuervision: The Road Advisory Services will assist the
PDN in managing the design contracts. They win review technical proposals and quantities the
consultants win propose. The Road Advisory Services will produce a significant report for each
bndge design (conception, compatibility with applicable standards, incorporation of allowed load,
cost effectiveness, etc.). They winl recmmend any revisions deemed necessary. Road d-ign win
be reviewed when approving the bins of quantities for each package. The estimated costs will be
checked when required by changes in design.
7.    Procurement activities: The Road Advisory Services will not act as procurement agents
but will assist the PIlDs in procurenent planning, preparation of docm on, bidding,
evaluation process, contmct award and monitoring. The procurement arrangements will follow the
Bank's guidelines.
Main activities on work procurement will be:
(i) SETRP packages: the packages have, in principle, been agreed upon during the
appraisal mission conducted in January 1997. The packages win be finalized by the Road
Advisory Services;
(ii) Bidding preparation: quantities and technical specifications will be reviewed, and
review conclusions sent to the World Bank;
(iii) Bidding evaluation: the Road Advisory Services will participate in the bid openings
and review the evaluations proposed by the PIDs. If any unforseeable event occurs the
Road Advisory Services will report to the World Bank so that the work program can be
reviewed when needed;
(iv) Draft contact: the Road Advisory Services wil assist the PIIDs in checking tecinical
specifications, schedules and payments clauses; and
(v) Cntract na et: the Road Advisory Services will assist the PlDs after works
start. They will check contactors' nain obligations and review the invoices.



Pae 3 of 4
8.    Assistance to constmuetion su vision: The Road Advisory Servie will visit work sites
when works are in progress. Ihe purpose is to evaluate how timing quantities, and quality
required in the contacts are respected. The Road Advisory Services will appraise on a monthy
basis the ongoing works in the Progress Reports. These Reports will include physical,
procurement and disbursement progress tables. Under the project managemet activity, the Road
Advisory Services will assist the PIDs and local consulants in organizing effective contuctio
supervision. The Road Advisory Services will be expected to provide theoretical and on-thejob
trainiDg to PHDs and Road Directorates staff and local consultants in supervision ptice.
9.   Tfgjsg: The Road Advisory Services will be expectd to mnce every eMit to trunstr
skills and modem concepts to the local persomnel (including these of the Road Direcates) with
whom they are working.
10.   Services and Fadities to be Provided by the Road Advisory Services: IUe Road
Advisory Services will be expected to provide their own    ation, tansport, supplies,
translators, secretaries. Under the SETRP, they will provide two vdicls to the Republika Srpuka
PID. These vehicles, by the end of the assignmnat, will become propety of the Republika Srpska
Road Difretote. Ihe Road Advisory Services would be based in Sarajevo. It is expected that
the Road Advisory Services will use as far as possible the facilities and arrangemnets which
already exist.
11.   Renorti;n  ReOuiremem_: Regarding the SETRP, the Coultant shall prepare and
submit an Inception report and Progress Reports to the PlDs and to the World Bank as indicated in
he table below, within the time periods and in the quantities and languages required. All reports to
he Federation PID shall be in Bosnian. All reports to the Republika Srpska PID shall be in
Serbian. All reports to the World Bank shall be in English. Inception and progress reports shall be
brief  The inception report shall summaze the Road Advisory Services inital findg, and
present a work progamm schedule to permit tinmly SETRP impl tion (it is expected that the
SETRP will be completed by end of June, 1999). Progress Reports will be monthly. They shall
contain a brief summary of the work accomplished in the previous month, an outline of the work to
be performed over the next one, and any issues being faced. The Consultants will also prepare and
submit to the Federation PI) in Bosnian and to the Bank in nglish, an ETRP Status Report which
shall include: (i) ETRP project implemtion progress to date; and (ii) a work program schedule
to complete ETRP activities by December 31, 1997, or such reasonable later date as tSe
completion ofthe reang ctivities under Sr ETRP shall permit.
12.   Renorturn Schedule
Inception           2                      Fed P1D    4             4
RS Pll)-  4
Progress            4 and monthly tbereafter  Fed PU)   4           4
RS Pll)- 4
Final Summary       2  weeks  prior  to  FedPlD-s>4                 4
mnompletion of services    RS PU) -> 4



Amuz 6
Page 4 of 4
13.   Time Schedul: The Road Advisory Service. will be expected to amve in Sarqjevo to
commenoce work on or about August 1, 1997.
Indicative Staffing Schedule
CBI Project Director             0.1
MA Prioect Director              0.1
Rehabilitation Adviser           0.1
Team Leaders                     5.5
Contac Enginee                   1.5
Highway/Contac Enginer           1.0
Bridge/Contac En ine             1.0
Local staff (2 eginera/trnslators, 2  14.0
sectaries)



Aim 7
Pae 1 of 4
BoRda ad Henegvina
Second Emegecy Transport Reconstrction Project
Progress Report Requirement
I.    Progress Reports will be fumished on a quarterly basis to the Bank.
2.     Progress Reports will present die main evenu of die quarter. They will specially higblight
te causes of any delay and te will propose solutions to clear any baldogs.
3.     Press Reports will include (i) table I which will be fille for total cost, and (ii) table 2
which will preset a comprehensive descripton of the procuremet procss evolution.
4.     For any goods or works contrac above USS 200,000 a dildi dme schedule will be set
as soon as possible, and Progress Reports will compare the actual tme schedule with  e forcast
one during die bidding period, as well as during the imple   period. For eah of these
contats, a flled table 3 should be included in each Prss Report and so-e details should be
given about the physical progress of the main items.
5.     For each cosutan' services contact, Progress Reports should indicate the topic, the
consultnt's name, the cost and tie date of completion.



Anam 7
Page 2 of 4
Table 1
Expenditures / total costs)
Items            Original cost   Up to te      Duing the        Toial
____ _         rpor      period  repng peiod
USD     %     USD      %     USD     %      USD     %
Road Rehabilitation
Bridge Rebabilitation
Constuction &
Maintenanc Equipment
Isituton Buidi*g
Techical Assistance
Mint ClearigR



_   _ __ __  1_1 _______1 1111 1111 
11-1111-- 111111ii
r  ------  -                   - eT        l            i
IEfI~ ~~ -I I-  ---- I MM 0IME }



Am= 7
Page 4 of4
Table 3
(Cotact Status)
Contr  Number
Conta Scope
Contractor Name
Original Contract Value
Date of Co nnt
Forecast Conmletin Date
Value of Vaiaton Orders to Date
Revised Coarc Amount
Anxmot Certfied this Period
Amount Certfied to Date
% Work plamnd to Date
% Actual Work Peroimed          1
% Slip or Gain                   __X_                                     _



Annex 8
Pae I of 4
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
Project Implementation Directorates
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    Large-scale damage occurred as a result of the hostilities. Transport links leading
to or near confrontation lines suffered the most extensive destruction. Over 2,000 km of
the main road network were in need of immediate repair. Seventy bridges were damaged;
all bridges comecting Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia were destroyed; no
infrastructure maintenance had been carried out during four years; most of the railway
lines were inoperable; Sarajevo Airport was pauly destroyed and closed to regular civilian
traffic; public transport vehicles and installations were danaged or run down. Transport
institutions lost premises, records, staid funds and, in many instances, did not have access
to those parts of the system which remained operable. Moreover, the sector institutions
were forcibly fiagnented and communication was severed among them.
2.    Since the end of hostilities, the condition of the transport infratructre has
significantly improved, mainly through the implementation of the Emergency Transport
Reconstruction Project (ETRP) ' and IFOR activities to restore strategic inrastructure.
Road and railway links have been gradually restored in much of the country. Road traffic
on part of the main network has already reached prewar levels. The Sarajevo-Ploce and
the Bosanski Novi (Novi Grad) - Tuzla railway lines have been reopened to minimal
standards but no commercial trains are yet running. A few civilian charter flights are now
serving Sarajevo Airport, and public transportation companies are progressively resuming
their activities.
3.    Major transportation bottlenecks remain, however. In the road sector, more than
half of the main network still needs to be rehbed. Road maintenance needs to be
undertaken urgently to avoid further rapid deterioration of iacu  and maintenance
organizations need to be organized and equipped. In the railway sector, the economicaly
important part of the network has been restored to minimal standards, but operating
agreements and further rehabilitation are needed before commercial trains can run
regularly. In particular, signaling and telecommunications systems have to be restored to
ensure safety. Extensive work is still required on Sarajevo Airport to accommodate
The ETRP secured funding of about US$145 million fiom over 20 donors, including IDA which
provided a credit of USS35 million, of which 68% has been dibured so far.



Anex 8
Pae 2 of 4
regular trffic. Public transport systems wiD continue to require a considerable level of
assistance in the years to come.
4.    As part of the World Bank's assistance strategy for the reconstruction of Bosnia
and Herzegovina, a Transport Reconstruction Program was prepared in December 1995
and continuously updated since, which requires total commitments of US$583 nillion as
follows:
* In 1996, US$192 million was committed, including US$145 million for the ETRP;
* In 1997, US$175 million is required for the proposed Second Emergency Transport
Reconstruction Project (SETRP);
* In 1998 and 1999 about US$216 million wil be needed.
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
5.    Bosnia and Herzegovina is the Borrower of the IDA MIT) Credit. The IDA (ITF)
Credit is to be implemented through two Project Implementation Directorates (PIDs) one
in each Entity. Cofinanciers would have the possibility to use, after agreement with the
relevant government, the PIDs to implement their respective parts of the Project. The
PIDs would be responsible to coordinate and provide assistance in the overall
mplementation of the Projet. On the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Program
anent Advisor, as defined in 1996 under the ETRP, as well as his two deputies,
one in each Entity, would continue in assisting the respective ministries in their relations
with the donor community.
PmDs Taus of Reference
6.    The PIDs will have the primary implemenation responsibilities of the IDA-
financed part of the SETRP. The PIDs will also provide liaison with donors, ministries
and other public entities on project activities. Such liaison will include facilitating the
inteaction of concerned agencies and the provision of information as described in
paragraph 7 (iv) below. In this regard, the PlDs will be the consolidated repository for
project information and data which it will make available to concerned parties in
appropriate format.



Annez 8
Page 3 of 4
7.    Being responsible for overseeing the management of the project, the PIDs will
have general responsibility for:
(i) Procurement of works, goods and services, following the World Bank Standard
Bidding Documents and the World Bank prepared Documents for National Competitive
Bidding, Simplified National Competitive Bidding and Shopping for Works and Shopping
for Goods. The procurement will be processed in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (Washington, D.C.,
January 1995, revised January and August 1996) fbr the works and goods, the World
Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., January 1997) for services, and: for the
Credit, in accordance with the Schedule of the respective Project Agreement between each
Entity and the International Development Association for the SETRP.
(ii) Disbursement: the PIDs will be responsible for the disbursement of funds, preparation
of withdrawal applications and the collection, maintenance of all relevant documents. The
Disbursement Handbook which details disbursement procedures for International
Development Association Credits, provides information on procedures and should be
considered a part of these Terms of Reference. The documents to support the
expenditures will be retained by the PIDs for at least one year after the receipt by IDA of
the audit report (see paragraph 7 (iii) below) for the year in which the last disbursement
was made. This documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and the
Bank upon request.
(iii) Monitoring, and accounting: The PIDs will establish a management information
sem, which will cover inter alia: (a) procurement activities for works, goods and
services, (b) all financial activities including payments and disbursements; (c) project
preparation and progress; and (d) an accounting system following generally accepted
intenational standards in order to provide information on the receipt and use of funds and
in line with the Credit Agreemt. The system would ensure timely and accurate
accounting of all transactions under the Entity respective part of the Credit, and a clear
presentation of financial information. It should enable identification of the use of all funds
by components and categories. The accountng system should reflect the movement and
receipts and payments through the Special Account with balances agreed with monthly
financial statements from the bank where the Special Account would be opened and with
periodic statements from IA. The accounting system will be reviewed by auditors to be
appointed by November 15, 1997.



AnneX 8
Page 4 of 4
Civ) Reporting: the PIDs will ensure the orgnization and management of information
reporting and database maintenance to meet the needs of the project and donors and
lenders participating in the project. Information management will include that developed in
the paragraph 7 above and will also include written reports, both as specified in the Project
Agreements (progress reports), but also as required for the dissemination of information
to parties within Bosnia and Herzegovina, donors and to participants in the project.
8.    The PI)s shall be responsible for inter alia:
(a)   concerning civil works:
- definition of procurement packages,
- selection of consultants for design and construction supervision,
- supervision of the work of these consultants,
- inviting and evalauting bids for works, preparing and supervising
contracts,
- contract supervision;
(b)   consolidating when appropriate the lists of equipment proposed under the
SETRP, equipment procurement (according to paragraph 7 (i)), including
competitive bidding process and assistance in the transfer of construction
and maintenance equipment to construction and maintenance companies;
(c)   disbursement activities;
(d)   monitoring and accounting; and
(e)   reporting.
Staffing
9.    The PIDs will be staffed with local personnel and should comprise: a director and
staff as appropriate for the tasks at hand and agreed with the Administrator. The PIDs are
encouraged to submit, as soon as possible, a list of staff needed and those PI) expenses
proposed to be financed under the Credit, for approval by the Association.



Ann  9
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project
Economic Evaluation of Project Roads
Road                   Length       Cost        1997    Existing    NPV @ 12%    ERR
(kIn)   (US$ million)  ADT   roughness   (US$ million)   (%)
(m/km)
Obudovac-Loncarn         6.5         1.1       3,130       4.8           1.1        31.2
(R462a)
Loncari-Brcko (M14.1)   11.5         1.6       3,130       5.1           2.5        39.8
Brcko-BijeIjina (M14.2)  30.0        5.0       3,696       6.3           5.6        63.1
BiJeljina-Raca (M 18)   7.3          1.2       5,192       6.5           2.3        82.6
Bmnja Luka-Gradiska     8.2          1.5       4,609       4.2           3.5        40.2
(M16)
Doboj-eslije-Modrica-    1.4         0.2       2,992       4.2           0.3        33.8
Sumac (M17)
Dervent-Seslije (M17.2)  5.2        1.3       2,484       5.3           0.6        23.6
D. Vukuf-Bugojno (M16)  3.2         0.4        4,260       4.8            1.2        57.6
Sicki Brod-rebrenik-    7.5          1.0       3,050       4.2           2.0        35.2
Cmrik (Ml18)
C*zin-Velika Kladusa    14.0         1.8       2,340       4.0           2.1        30.5
(M4.2)
Olavo-KladanJ (M18)     16.0        2.0        2,520       5.2           2.9        38.9
Semizovac-Olovo (M18)   9.5          1.2       3,050       4.0           1.8        38.3
Capljina-jubuski-Grude  25.0        3.0        3,550       4.3           7.0        49.7
(MS.l)
ivno-Karlov Han (M6.1)    16.0      2.0        2,220       5.0           3.1        41.6
Visoko-Lasva (M17)      6.0         0.9        5,270       3.2           2.6        33.1
Total                  127.8        19.2                                 38.6
Weighted Average                                                                    46.6



MAfPQN






CROATIA                       w4ol^
To Kmo6.wclT ikv
1MI~~RsosN                                        I e nlto
To ain                                  .4                                                         T* 6.bGoni  raL, Kseckli,zo ~ ani   \ ;
45         =..  Pojodos                      YE           Do) enlo v 9 ow'e
~~~~~~-J. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ .
l.k.~~~~~~~~~~~o~
_ > JvX 1 e __ SMot.r V.r    T I
Riu.k.nMic Iv
T-6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
KONI  -HD HERZEGOVIN        00110                             i c
EMERGENCY TRANSPORT RECONSTRUCTION  PROJEC~~~~~~~VT,                                         SrD.   .bc7 r z2,,ic or
SECOND EMERGENCY TRANSPORT4RECONSTRUCTION PROJGCT                       44nrRPL
-,                                            T.-          K,.9-                          q.l -g ROAd nECION  d NATIONA CTH
~~~~~~~BSI   N    EREOIAPogoo-   or4,o,PooA.od
EMRGNC   T RANGSPR   RECNSRUCIO   PROJECT AND-  r       r vA                                            -C ROAI 
~~~~SECOND EMERGENCY TRANSPORT RECONS TRUTON PGROJMECTLNS                                              D  
..... . z ROAD SECTIONS --ITRATINDL BOUDRIDES IAY.-sFzM /RLAI
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I *    RDGS-  i0 V                                                           Q
CGEC' C OAD7          KAN
WORLD_EERENCYTRANSPORT                     RIVOMEERS                                              G GERMANY  .REDEEAL
<        |-jI--   TUNNELS                1    '---- RAIEWAY8                        10                    24 _09K
-  ROAD SECTIONS                                         SALT         C I90IIOMVOSEUGRBIA/
-~  or.~.   TUNNEG  5     25       UT                                        0tMONTNE RO
EMRECYTASPRKECNTU INPOMECTER                                                                                 GREECE1-
16'       17'                              iR'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CEH  , OTN,~  KAN









IMAGING
Report No.: T      7147   BIH
Type:    TAN



