Page  1
January 9, 1998
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
 Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Re:
Japanese Grant for Second Emergency Transport 
Reconstruction Project Grant Number TF024766
Dear Mr. Kurtovic:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate the IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to 
make a grant in an amount not exceeding ten million dollars ($10,000,000) (the Grant) 
to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan                               
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ M. Kurtovic
Date: April 1, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
The purposes of the Grant are to cofinance the Second Emergency Transport 
Reconstruction Project by participating in the reconstruction of the main road network 
in Bosnia and Herzegovina and by supplying road maintenance equipment.  The activities 
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(i)  rehabilitation of about 45km of road sections, 2 bridges and 1 tunnel on 
the main road network in both the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in 
Republika Srpska;
(ii)  supply of road maintenance equipment and related spare parts and office 
equipment in Republika Srpska; and
(iii) provision of consulting services in both the Federation of Bosnia and 
Page  2
Herzegovina and Republika Srpska to finance design and supervision of the works 
intended to be financed under the Grant.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall cause the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the 
Federation) and Republika Srpska to: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence 
and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for that purpose; and (c) furnish all information covering the 
Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request
2.2.
The Recipient shall: (a) from time to time exchange views with IDA's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (b) take all 
necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for 
purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of 
the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and 
impact of the Activities.
2.3.
The Recipient shall make available to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
and Republika Srpska the proceeds of the Grant for purposes of carrying out the 
Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to 
replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with 
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly 
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the 
   % of
Grant Allocated 
Expenditures to
Item
  (in Dollars)
 be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
100%
services
(a)
For the
500,000 
      Federation
(b)
For Republika 500,000
      Srpska
(2)
Goods for
    1,030,000
100% of  
Republika Srpska
foreign  
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured 
Page  3
locally
(3)
Works
90%
       (a)
For the 
    4,100,000
Federation
       (b)
For Republika   3,170,000
Srpska
(4)
Unallocated
(a)
For the 
Federation
400,000 
(b)
For Republika 300,000
Srpska
TOTAL
   10,000,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient and for goods, works or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient, 
and the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or works or services 
supplied from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after June 30, 2000 or such later 
date as IDA shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), 
except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing 
Date if the corresponding application is received by IDA within four months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the 
Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient 
to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another 
item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or such other person 
as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence 
in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from 
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) goods costing less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) works costing less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Page  4
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in Dollars, special deposit accounts (the Special Accounts) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to 
this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Page  5
Attachment, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Section II of the Guidelines is modified to provide that:  (i) the General 
Procurement Notice (GPN) shall also be published in the local press; (ii) individual 
advertisement for specific contracts shall also be published in the local press; (iii) 
the period allowed for submission of bids shall be four (4) weeks; and (iv) bid and 
payment currency shall be limited to one currency widely used in international trade.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less 
than $2,000,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the following 
modifications:
(i)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the national competitive 
bidding documents agreed with IDA;
(ii)
foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
(iii)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
hand 
carried bids will be accepted;
(iv)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
(v)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(vi)
bidders will not be asked, nor allowed, to change the substance of their 
bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with the lowest 
evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed in the 
Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  6
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for activities described under items (i), (ii) and (iii) in paragraph 
1 of the Annex shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of 
all works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part B of this Attachment I the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to:  (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part C.2 of this Attachment I; and (ii) the first contract to 
be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.3 of this Attachment 
I, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any contractor under small works procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to IDA a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall provide to 
IDA a copy of the specifications, draft contract and the relevant 
drawings, where applicable; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment II.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for design and supervision estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for design and supervision estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
Page  7
plan for the selection of consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
 (a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
design and supervision estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only 
after said approval shall have been given.  
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Grant may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for works provided by 
nationals of, and procured in or supplied from, Participating Countries (as this term 
is defined in the Interim Trust Development Credit Agreement for the Second Emergency 
Transport Reconstruction Project, between the Recipient and IDA); consequently, 
nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries and bidders offering goods 
and works from such countries shall be disqualified from bidding for such contracts, 
and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only firms that are registered or incorporated in, and individuals and personnel who 
are nationals of, Participating Countries shall be eligible to compete for services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
Attachment II
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means items (1)(a) and (3)(a) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement in respect of the 
Federation Special Account and items (1)(b), (2) and (3)(b) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement in respect of the Republika Srpska 
Special Account;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $800,000 
in respect of the Federation Special Account and an amount equivalent to $800,000 in 
respect of the Republika Srpska Special Account.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
Page  8
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)   For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the respective 
Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the 
Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the 
respective Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to 
IDA such outstanding amount.
Page  9
