Page  1
April 7, 1997
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for Second Emergency Transport 
Reconstruction Project
Grant Number TF 029673                               
Dear Sirs/Mesdames:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred thousand U.S. dollars ($400,000) (the 
Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out 
the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. This 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date hereof, upon receipt by IDA of: 
(i) the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you; and (ii) a legal opinion, 
satisfactory to IDA, that this Letter Agreement has been duly authorized by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Recipient and is legally binding upon the 
Recipient in accordance with its terms.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By /s/ Rory O’Sullivan                           
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Hasan Muratovic
   /s/ Gavro Bogic
Authorized Representative(s)
Date(s):
June 10, 1997
June 4, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
(a)
preparation of feasibility studies and design documentation for the high 
priority roads and bridges included in the Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction 
Project, both in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the “Federation”) and in 
Republika Srpska; and
(b)
training to Federation and Republika Srpska road maintenance 
organizations staff.
Page  2
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the  
Activities, including training of Federation and Republika Srpska road maintenance 
organizations staff.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with  IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. 
Training activities will be carried out in close consultation and collaboration with 
beneficiary institutions. The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or 
liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1997. After 
that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any 
other entity to which IDA, acting for itself or as trustee or administrator of any 
fund, has made a grant or credit, to make withdrawals under any credit, grant or 
development credit agreement with IDA acting in any capacity, shall have been 
suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
