Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N032-0 BOS
Federation Project Agreement
(Second Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
the International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. 
IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the International Development 
Association
and
THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Dated September 12, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N032-0 BOS 
FEDERATION PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association), as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim 
trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996 and THE FEDERATION OF 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Federation).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the 
Administrator has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million two hundred ten thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 28,210,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Federation agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Administrator as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Federation, a portion of the proceeds of the interim fund credit provided for 
under the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the 
Federation on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Credit Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Federation, in consideration of the Administrator’s entering into 
the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
said Parts of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree: 
(i) procurement of the works and consultants’ services required for Parts A.1, B.1 and 
D.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement; and (ii) 
procurement of the works required for Part E.1 of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Section I.B.1 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement between Bosnia and 
Herzegovina and the Association, dated July 31, 1996 (Credit No. 2905 BOS), for the 
Emergency Landmines Clearance Project, subject to the eligibility restrictions set 
forth in Section III of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 (b)
The Federation shall coordinate with the PMAU for purposes of procurement 
monitoring and audit activities for Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project.
Section 2.03.  The Federation shall maintain a PID under terms of reference and 
with staffing and other resources acceptable to the Administrator. The PID shall be 
headed by a coordinator and shall have overall responsibility for the management and 
coordination of Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Federation shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 and 
E.1 of the Project. 
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Federation shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator and furnish to the Administrator not later than six 
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Administrator and the 
Federation, a plan for the future operation of Parts A.1, B.1 and 
D.1 of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Federation on said plan.
Section 2.05. The Federation shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the 
Federation shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) The Federation shall, at the request of the Administrator, 
exchange views with the Administrator with regard to the progress of Parts A.1, B.1, 
D.1 and E.1 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes 
of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
the Federation shall promptly inform the Administrator of any condition 
Page  3
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 
and E.1 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, 
or the performance by the Federation of its obligations under this Agreement and under 
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
Section 2.07.  The Federation shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, by March 15 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 and E.1 of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 and 
E.1 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by April 15, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts 
A.1, B.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Administrator’s views on the matter.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Federation shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1, B.1, D.1 and E.1 
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Federation responsible for 
carrying out any said Parts of the Project.
(b)
The Federation shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator, who shall be 
employed by November 15, 1997, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Administrator and of 
the Federation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
Page  4
(b)
If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Administrator shall promptly notify the Federation of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Federation:
Ministry of Finance of the 
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Federation 
may be taken or executed by the Minister of Finance of the Federation or such other 
person or persons as the Minister of Finance of the Federation shall designate in 
writing, and the Federation shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
with
   funds contributed by certain members of the 
   International Development Association pursuant to
   Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
   the International Development Association
Page  5
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan
Authorized Representative
THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ V. Soljic
  /s/ E. Ganic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants’ Services under the Project
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule,  works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Section II of the Guidelines is modified to provide that: (i) the General 
Procurement Notice (GPN) shall also be published in the local press; (ii) individual 
advertisement for specific contracts shall also be published in the local press; (iii) 
the period allowed for submission of bids shall be four (4) weeks; and (iv) bid and 
payment currency shall be limited to one currency widely used in international trade.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less 
than $2,000,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the following 
modifications:
(i)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the national 
competitive bidding documents agreed with the Administrator;
(ii)
foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
(iii)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
handcarried bids will be accepted;
(iv)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
(v)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(vi)
bidders will not be asked, nor allowed, to change the substance of 
their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with 
the lowest evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed 
in the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Works for the Ostrozac bridge, estimated to cost $1,500,000 equivalent, may, 
with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  6
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Administrator, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made 
to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part B of this Schedule; and (ii) the first contract to be 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part C.2 of this Schedule; and (ii) the first contract to be 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.3 of this Schedule, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any contractor under small works 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Administrator a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Administrator a copy of the specifications, draft contract 
and the relevant drawings, where applicable; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures  set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Page  7
Services for design and supervision under Part D.1 of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for design and supervision under Part D.1 of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Part D.1 of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
 (a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
design and supervision estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for works 
provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries; 
consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries and bidders 
offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from bidding for 
such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only firms that are registered or incorporated in, and individuals and personnel who 
are nationals of, Participating Countries shall be eligible to compete for services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
