Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2874 IVC
Project Agreement
(Fifth Rubber Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE HEVEICOLE DE GO
and
SOCIETE AFRICAINE DE PLANTATIONS D'HEVEAS
and
BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE
Dated October 19, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2874 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 1987, among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SOCIETE HEVEICOLE DE GO (HEVEGO), SOCIETE AFRICAINE DE 
PLANTATIONS D'HEVEAS (SAPH), and BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE 
(BNDA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of Cote 
d'Ivoire (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million nine hundred 
thousand dollars ($11,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that HEVEGO, SAPH and BNDA agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Accord de Retrocession to be entered into between the Borrower and 
BNDA, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to BNDA on the terms and conditions set forth in said Accord de 
Retrocession;
(C)
by the Contracts to be entered into between the Borrower and SAPH and 
Page  2
between the Borrower and HEVEGO, part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under 
the Loan Agreement will be made available to SAPH and HEVEGO, respectively, on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said Contracts; and 
WHEREAS HEVEGO, SAPH and BNDA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Parts A, B, and C of the Project will be jointly carried out 
by SAPH and BNDA; Parts D, E and F (1) of the Project will be carried out by SAPH; and 
Part F (2) of the Project will be carried out by HEVEGO.
(b)
Each Project Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Part or Parts of the Project for which it is responsible with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with, the provisions of this Agreement, the 
respective Contracts, the BNDA Agreement, the Accord de Retrocession and the Protocol, 
as the case may be, and with appropriate administrative. financial, engineering, 
agricultural and commercial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
therefor.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for those Parts of the Project 
executed by the Project Entities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each Project Entity shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and its respective Part of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) BNDA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Accord 
de Retrocession. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BNDA shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Accord de Retrocession or any provision thereof.
(b)
HEVEGO and SAPH shall each duly perform its obligations under its 
respective Contract. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HEVEGO or SAPH shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving its respective
Contract or any provision thereof.
(c)
BNDA and SAPH shall each duly perform its obligations under the Protocol. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BNDA and SAPH shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of awarding, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Protocol or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The Project Entities shall each, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress on the Part or Parts of the 
Project for which it is responsible, the performance of Its obligations under this 
Agreement, under the Contracts, the BNDA Agreement, the Protocol or under the Accord 
Page  3
de Retrocession, as the case may be, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
The Project Entities shall each promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by any of the Project 
Entities of its obligations under this Agreement, under the Contracts, the BNDA 
Agreement, the Protocol or under the Accord de Retrocession, as the case may be.
Section 2.06. SAPH shall, not later than September 30, 1987, establish and 
thereafter maintain, the position of Program Director for the outgrowers program under 
Parts A and B of the Project, the position of Manager for the works to be managed 
under Part C of the Project, and the position of Project Manager for the works to be 
managed under Parts D and E of the Project, and employ personnel with qualifications 
and experience, satisfactory to the Bank, to fill such positions.
Section 2.07. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of their other 
obligations under this Agreement, the Project Entities shall each take all actions 
necessary to assist the Borrower in complying with its obligations under the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.08. In order to carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project:
(a)
BNDA and SAPH shall amend the Protocol to include the new working 
arrangements for credit management under said Parts of the Project; and
(b)
BNDA shall make available to the outgrowers, under said Parts of the 
Project, loans in kind or cash under terms and conditions which, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, shall be in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. SAPH shall, not later than December 31, 1988, submit to the Bank 
adequate measures to enable its extension services to efficiently manage the new 
rubber development areas referred to under Parts A and C of the Project, and 
implement, promptly, thereafter, those measures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.10. In order to carry out Part C of the Project, SAPH shall make 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with GMPH, the agricultural investors group 
established pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement, for the creation and 
management of the medium-scale plantation program.
Section 2.11. For the purposes of Part F (1) of the Project, SAPH shall enter 
into an agreement, not later than June 30, 1988, with IRCA/CI for applied research, 
satisfactory to the Bank. Detailed annual work programs, staffing requirements and 
budget ceilings shall be prepared annually and submitted to the Bank for approval.
Section 2.12. SAPH and HEVEGO shall submit to the Bank, for information, draft 
annual budgets, not later than September 30 of each year the Project is executed.
Section 2.13. For purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, BNDA shall employ 
credit officers for the Rubber Credit Unit in sufficient numbers and with 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the 
Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Project Entities
Section 3.01. The Project Entities shall each carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs, in accordance with sound administrative, financial, commercial, 
engineering and agricultural practices, under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Project Entities shall each at all times operate and maintain 
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, agricultural and commercial practices.
Page  4
Section 3.03. The Project Entities shall each take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Project Entities shall each maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
The Project Entities shall each:
 
(i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year:
 
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so 
audited; and
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit thereof and 
said records, as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement, and all obligations of the Bank and of the Project 
Entities thereunder, shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Project 
Entities thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provision
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement, and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement, shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
Page  5
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For HEVEGO:
01 B.P. 7572
Abidjan 01
Republique de Cote d'Ivoire
Telex:
2164
MRS
For SAPH:
01 B.P. 1322
Abidjan 01
Republique de Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Suzannah
3696
Abidjan
SAPH
 
For BNDA:
01 B.P. 2508
Abidjan 01
Republique de Cote d'Ivoire
Telex:
2298
BANCAGRI
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Entity, or by a Project Entity on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may 
be taken or executed by its Director General or such other person or persons as a 
Project Entity shall designate in writing, and the Project Entities shall each furnish 
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIETE HEVEICOLE DE GO
By /s/ Charles Gomis
Authorized Representative
SOCIETE AFRICAINE DE PLANTATIONS D'HEVEAS
By /s/ Charles Gomis
Authorized Representative
BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
  AGRICOLE
By /s/ Charles Gomis
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof , goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits," published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Cote d'Ivoire may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works, vehicles and agricultural equipment estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of local competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Page  7
3.
Civil works for land clearing under Part D of the Project may be carried out by 
force account by SAPH.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments f or such contracts are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of each contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist in carrying out Parts F and G of the Project, rubber experts 
or consultants shall be employed whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Term and Conditions of Sub-loans
from BNDA to Outgrowers
1.
Sub-loans for smallholder plantations under Part A of the Project shall include 
an interest rate of 7.5% during the immature period and 9.0% during the production 
period, and a repayment period of 18 years including a grace period of seven years. 
The outgrowers' down payment shall be at least 37%.
2.
Sub-loans for medium-scale plantations under Part B (1) of the Project shall 
include an interest rate of 9.0% during the immature period and 10.5% during the 
production period, and a repayment period of 18 years including a grace period of 
seven years. The outgrowers' down payment shall be at least 38%.
3.
Sub-loans for medium-scale plantations under Part B (2) of the Project shall 
include an interest rate of 7.5% during the immature period and 9.0% during the 
production period, and a repayment period of 18 years including a grace period of 
seven years. The outgrowers' down payment
shall be at least 30%.
4.
Sub-loans for medium-scale plantations under Part C of the Project shall include 
an interest rate of 9.0% during the immature period and 10.5% during the production 
period, and a repayment period of 18 years including a grace period of seven years. 
The outgrowers' down payment shall be at least 40% of his share in the investment.
Page  8
