Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2874 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Rubber Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 19, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2874 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation 
Economique (CCCE) a loan (CCCE Loan in French Francs, in an amount of French Francs 
seventy two million (FF 72,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(C)
the Borrower has requested Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) to 
assist in financing parts of the Project by making available to the Borrower an 
aggregate amount of Pound Sterling eight million five hundred thousand (L8,500,000) 
(CDC Financing);
(D)
Parts A, B and C of the Project will be Jointly carried out by Societe 
Africaine de Plantations d'Heveas (SAPH) and Banque Nationale pour le Developpement 
Agricole (BNDA); Parts D, E and F (1) of the Project will be carried out by SAPH, Part 
Page  2
F (2) of the Project will be carried out by Societe Heveicole de Go (HEVEGO); and Part 
G of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower
through DCGTx which shall also be responsible of the monitoring and evaluation, 
supervision and control of Parts A to F of the Project, all with the Borrower's 
assistance; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, HEVEGO, 
SAPH and BNDA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank, HEVEGO, SAPH and 
BNDA of even date herewith, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Accord de Retrocession" means the subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and BNDA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement of the Borrower;
 
(d)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(e)
"Contracts" means the management contract between the Borrower and SAPH, 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and the management contract between 
the Borrower and HEVEGO referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement, all as 
amended from time to time, and 'Contract" means any one of these;
(f)
"BNDA Agreement" means the agreement between CAA and BNDA, dated March 
21, 1979, as amended from time to time;
(g)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts to be opened and thereafter 
maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Project Accounts" means the accounts to be opened at CAA and to be 
funded and operated pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(i)
"Project Entities" means HEVEGO, SAPH and BNDA and "Project Entity" means 
any one of these;
(j)
"GMPH" means Groupement de Moyennes Plantations d'Heveas, the entity to 
be created by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Rubber Master Plan" means the plan, adopted by the Borrower's Ministry 
of Agriculture, covering the Borrower's long term strategy for its rubber sub-sector;
(l)
"Protocol" means the contractual arrangement between SAPH and BNDA, dated 
January 5, 1979, as amended from time to time;
(m)
"IRCA/CI" means Institut de Recherche sur le Caoutchouc en Cote d'Ivoire, 
an agricultural research institution under the authority of the Borrower, operating 
Page  3
pursuant to the Accord Cadre of 1984; and
(n)
"DCGTx" means Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eleven million nine hundred thousand dollars ($11,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF three special accounts in CAA on term and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Project 
Entities of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the Interest Period 
in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year. 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May I 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. SAPH, HEVEGO and BNDA are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall, through DCGTx, cause the Project Entities to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of the Project Entities 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Project Entities to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
relend to BNDA of the proceeds of the Loan as may be allocated 
from time to
time to Categories (1) (b), (2) and (3) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, under an Accord de 
Retrocession to be 
entered into between the Borrower and BNDA, 
under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank and 
which shall include an interest rate 
equal to the Bank's interest rate 
on the Loan repayment by BNDA of amounts so 
relent in equal semiannual 
installments over a period of twenty years, 
including a grace 
period of five years, and bearing by the Borrower of the 
risk 
of fluctuations in the value of currencies so relent to BNDA; and
(ii)
make available to SAPH and HEVEGO for the purposes of Parts A 
through F (1) 
and F (2) of the Project, respectively, such amounts 
out of the proceeds of 
the Loan as may be allocated from time to time 
to Categories (1) (a), (4), (5) 
and (6) and Category (7), respectively, 
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement, on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Contracts.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Contracts, the BNDA 
Agreement and the Accord de Retrocession in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Contracts on the BNDA Agreement or the Accord de Retrocession or any 
provision thereof.
(d)
The Borrower appoints DCGTx for the monitoring and evaluation, 
supervision and control of the execution of the Project by the Project Entities.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, C, 
D, E and F of the Project shall be carried out by the Project Entities pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
amend the BNDA Agreement to include loans to outgrowers under Parts A, B 
and C of the Project, and to specify the terms and conditions upon which the Borrower 
shall grant to BNDA throughout the execution of the Project a minimum spread of 3% 
taking into account BNDA's resource mobilization costs;
(b)
amend its existing Contract with SAPH to extend the duration and to 
include the works to be managed by SAPH under Parts A, B, C, D, E and F (1) of the 
Project; and
Page  5
(c)
amend its existing Contract with HEVEGO to include the works to be 
managed by HEVEGO under Part F (2) of the Project.
Section 3.05. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, but 
without any limitations thereon, the Borrower shall:
(a)
for the purposes of the Project, open Project Accounts in the name of 
SAPH, HEVEGO and BNDA at CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
make, out of its own resources, an initial deposit of CFAF 25,000,000 in 
the BNDA account; and
(c)
make, out of its own resources and at least quarterly, such further 
deposits on the basis of estimated cash requirement forecasts made by SAPH, HEVEGO and 
BNDA, respectively, and reviewed by the Borrower through DCGTx, as shall be required 
to meet these entities' expenditures for the Project for the immediately following 
six-month period.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and issue a legal framework for the establishment of agricultural 
investors groups to develop, inter alia, medium-scale rubber plantations; and
(b)
cause SAPH to conclude contractual arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, 
with the
agricultural investors group (GMPH) to be established under such framework which shall 
include, inter alia, provisions for the execution of Part C of the Project under the 
terms and conditions of the Project Agreement applicable to Part C of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall employ at all times during the execution of the 
Project an agro-economist, with qualifications and terms and conditions of employment 
satisfactory to the Bank, to strengthen DCGTx in carrying out studies, and the 
monitoring, evaluation, supervision and control of the execution of the Project.
Section 3.08. Before the Closing Date, the Borrower shall exchange views with 
the Bank on a formula for the extension cost recovery cess applicable to medium-scale 
estates.
Section 3.09. In order to carry out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
set up a special committee for the selection of participants in the medium-scale 
plantation program, in accordance with selection criteria satisfactory to the Bank. 
Said committee shall include high level representatives of the Borrower's Ministry of 
Agriculture, DCGTx, SAPH and BNDA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting
practices, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until 
at least one 
year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
Page  6
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Project Entity will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
Any legal provision governing or applicable to the organization or 
operations of any Project Entity or to the organization or operations of GMPH shall 
have been amended. suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of any Project Entity or GMPH to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of a Project Entity or of GMPH or 
for the suspension of its operations, without the prior approval of the Bank.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
granted additional management responsibilities to SAPH or made changes in SAPH senior 
management positions in charge of the Project so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of SAPH to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(f)
Any of the Contracts, the BNDA Agreement or the Accord de Retrocession 
shall have been suspended, waived, terminated or in any material respect amended, 
without the prior approval of the Bank.
(g)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant,
loan or credit made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing thereof; or
(B)
any such loan or credit shall have become due and payable 
prior to the
agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
Page  7
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other
sources on term and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Project Entity concerned;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) through (f) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Accord de Retrocession has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and BNDA, satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
the conditions of effectiveness of the CCCE Loan Agreement for the 
Project and the CDC Financing for the Project, other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
a price structure, satisfactory to the Bank, for the purchase of all 
rubber from outgrowers is in effect;
(d)
the Project Accounts have been opened in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.05 of this Agreement, and an initial deposit of CFAF 25,000,000 has been 
made in the BNDA Account;
(e)
the extension of, and amendment to the Contract between the Borrower and 
SAPH, as provided in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement, have been duly executed on 
behalf of the-Borrower and SAPH;
(f)
the amendment to the BNDA Agreement, as provided in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement, has been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and BNDA; and
(g)
the amendment to the Protocol, as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of the 
Project Agreement, has been duly executed on behalf of BNDA and SAPH.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each 
Project Entity and is legally binding upon each Project Entity in accordance with its 
terms; and
(b)
that the Accord de Retrocession has been duly authorized or ratified b 
the Borrower and BNDA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BNDA in accordance 
with its terms.
Page  8
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower responsible for Economy and Finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
P.O. Box V 125
Abidjan
Republique de Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFIN
MINIFIN 3747
Abidjan
Abidjan
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Charles Gomis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of Its= to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
(1) Part A of the
    Project:
    (a) Extension        2,802,000    25%
        Services
        (SAPH)
    (b) Agricultural     1,456,000    26%
        inputs (BNDA
        credits)
(2) Agricultural           460,000    20%
    inputs for Part B
    of the Project
    (BNDA credit)
(3) Management             193,000    35%
    Services for
    Part C of the
    Project (BNDA)
(4) Planting for           909,000    71%
    Part D of the
    Project (SAPH)
(5) Planting main-         737,000    72%
    tenance for
    Part E of
    the Project
    (SAPH)
(6) Goods and Services     356,000    41%
    for Part F (1) of
    the Project (SAPH)
(7) Part F (2) of the Project
    (HEVEGO):
    (a) Construction       754,000    62%
    (b) operating        1,312,000    27%
        costs
(8) Part G of the Project (DCGTx):
    (a) studies          1,036,000    60%
    (b) technical          696,000    100%
        assistance
(9) Unallocated          1,189,000
       TOTAL            11,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
Page  10
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed
to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "Extension Services"' means all costs incurred in the provision 
of goods and services to farmers for the proper development of their plantations and 
of their technical and managerial skills.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
expenditures under Category (2) unless the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it showing that the Borrower has appointed the special committee 
referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
(c)
expenditures under Category (3) unless the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it showing that:
(i)
GMPH has been established in accordance with Section 3.06 (a) of 
this 
Agreement with statutes and a partnership agreement 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)
the contractual arrangement between SAPH and GMPH has been duly 
concluded in
accordance with Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement and is binding 
upon SAPH 
and GMPH; and
 
(iii)
the plot selected for Part C of the Project is unencumbered; and
 
(d)
expenditures under Categories (5) and (7) until the proceeds of Loan No. 
2323 IVC allocated to Categories (3) and (5) of the table in Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement providing therefor have been fully withdrawn.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in increasing its 
export earnings, to diversify the agricultural sector and to support the rural credit 
system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Smallholder Plantations
 
(1)
Land clearing, planting and maintenance to maturity of about 10,200 ha of rubber 
trees in the South-East, South-West and Center regions.
(2)
Maintenance of about. 3,990 ha of rubber trees in the South-East regions.
 
Part B:
Medium-Scale Individual Plantations (PMPH)
 
(1)
Establishment of about 2,000 ha of medium-scale rubber tree estates in 
individual blocks of 25 to 70 ha each by existing land owners in the South-East 
region.
Page  11
(2)
Execution of a pilot program to develop about 1,000 ha of rubber trees in 
individual blocks of 20 ha each by rural youth in the South-East region. 
Part C:
Medium-Scale Plantations under Single Management (GMPH)
 
Development of about 700 ha of rubber trees in individual blocks of about 25 ha 
each in the Rapides Grah estate in the South-West region.
Part D:
Bettie Nucleus Estate
 
Land clearing and planting of about 600 ha of rubber trees.
Part E:
Cavally Nucleus Estate
 
Maintenance to maturity of about 2,000 ha of rubber trees.
Part F:
Research
 
(1)
Adaptative research for rubber crop development.
 
(2)
Construction of offices, housing and tracks for HEVEGO and vehicles maintenance.
 
Part G:
Studies
 
Studies to update and complement the Rubber Master Plan, including a land 
identification survey covering about 100,000 ha, a feasibility study of decentralized 
smallholder and medium-scale processing, and an analysis of the several clone trials 
established through the potential rubber area.
*   *   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1993
through May 1, 2007              
395,000
 
On November 1, 2007                 
445,000
 
________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Page  12
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum) applicable 
to the balance outstanding on the 
Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years        
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but        
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but          
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not          
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not          
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before        
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A through F of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means:
 
(i)
an amount equivalent to CFAF 360,000,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account used exclusively for 
Categories (1) 
(a), (4), (5) and (6);
 
(ii)
an amount equivalent to CFAF 150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account used exclusively for 
Categories (1) 
(b), (2) and (3); or
 
(iii)
an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account used exclusively for 
Category (7) 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
 
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of any Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
Page  13
3.
After the Bank ties received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish it may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into such 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of such 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into such Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish it with amounts not exceeding 
the amount of payments made out of such Special
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the 
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into any Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories 
for Parts A through F of the Project, minus the amount of 
any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to Parts 
A through F of the Project, shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A through F of the 
Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in any Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account:
(i)
was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 
4 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, deposit into 
said special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. No 
further deposit by the Bank into any of the Special 
Accounts shall be 
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
Page  14
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
