Report No. PID9604
Project Name                     Ukraine-Social Investment Fund (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Social Funds
Project ID                       UAPE69858
Borrower(s)                      UKRAINE
Implementing Agency
Address UKRAINE SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Ukraine Social Investment Fund Executive Office
C/o Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
8/10, Esplanadna Str., 01023 Kyiv, Ukraine
Contact Person: Ms. Natalia Yasko
Email: Nyasko@usif.kiev.ua
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                September 15, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             August 9, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Poverty disparities and poorly targeted social assistance programs. The
transition from the command-and -control socialist state to a market
economy has resulted in substantial dislocations, amplified by
institutional weakness and emergence of rent-seeking behavior, growth of
poverty and disparity of the impact of the transition on different
population groups. The poverty analysis carried out by the team
identifies children, single, elderly and other groups with specific
circumstances as having highest poverty risk. While poverty has been on
the rise the social assistance system remained ineffective in providing
meaningful support to those most in need, mainly due to program,
administration and financing fragmentation, general under-funding, design
and implementation features leading to important errors of exclusion and
inclusion.   For the first time since independence the Government    has
acknowledged the existence and increasing poverty problems and has
assigned high priority to the development of a poverty reduction strategy
with Bank and other donor assistance. Inadequate, socially exclusive
system of social care services. The system for social care services which
has inherited from the Soviet period the model of institutionalized care
has been even less able to adapt to constraint resources and changing
environment, thus re-inforcing social exclusion and vulnerability of
client population. Reforms of the social care services sector will require
in the first place development of a strong community-based services sector
as an alternative to institutionalized care and building of strong support
for the reform. The Government is also aware of the efficiency, quality
and social inclusion advantages of community based social care provision
and is considering the preparation of a strategy for gradual
de-institutionalization. However, de-institutionalization, requires,
building the alternative to institutionalized care - creating the network
of socially inclusive, accessible, equitable and effective community-based
services, diversification of service provision and bigger involvement of



communities and the NGO sector in monitoring and provision of services. As
first steps, legislation and regulations on social services contracting is
currently under preparation and the Government has started the
establishment of community based social services centers for some
vulnerable groups. Dysfunctional health and education systems. A
sustained economic decline and the crisis management approach of the
Government during the last 10 years, have led also to a dramatic
deterioration of social services and community infrastructure, which
seriously impacts access of poorer communities and vulnerable groups to
health and education. Persistent under-funding, lack of clear
responsibility and accountability has resulted practically in
dysfunctioning health and education sectors, worsening effectiveness and
quality of services - no textbooks in schools, poor teacher training, no
medicines in hospitals and health centers - (reflected in increasing
morbidity, spread of communicable diseases, dropping enrollment rates
etc.) The Government is aware that the crisis management approach to
social sectors is not sustainable if Ukraine is to preserve and develop
its major asset and main factor for long term economic growth - its human
capital. Therefore, the government is committed to social sector reforms
and has requested the Bank for assistance in reforms of health, education,
social assistance and social service delivery, aimed at bringing programs
in line with limited resources, improving equity and effectiveness.
2. Objectives
The development objective of this project are to: (i) improve living
conditions of poorer and vulnerable groups of the population in targeted
communities; (ii) empower targeted communities and vulnerable groups to
address local social needs; and (iii) assist the reform of social
protection by creating models of targeting and service provision . These
will be achieved through the development of innovative, quality and
cost-effective social and communal services and strengthening the
solidarity sense of communities and vulnerable groups, encouraging
community initiatives, building the decision making, organizational and
managerial capacities of communities, NGOs and local government and
strengthening the policy formulation, monitoring and management
capabilities of central and local government in the area of social and
communal service financing and delivery.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Government has placed poverty reduction and reform of its social
protection system at the core of its program and has requested the Bank to
assist in development of its strategy for reform. The Bank is already
engaged in an intensive dialogue on social protection reform. In fact,
adjustment support to reforms in pension and social assistance and social
services is being considered within a cross sectoral PAL project. Policy
discussions on health and education reform are also under way. Also, the
Bank has gained considerable experience and expertise in design and
supervision of operations using demand driven financing mechanisms through
SIFs and other community-based projects under supervision or preparation
in Armenia, Azerbaijan Bosnia, Bulgaria, Georgia, Lithuania, Moldova,
Romania, Uzbekistan. Based on this experience , and the Bank's experience
with social protection and social services in other middle income
countries in the region, the Bank is well-placed to provide assistance to
the Government of Ukraine.
-2-



4. Description
The project will have three main components:
1. Community-based services (estimated cost US$ 60.8 million). This
component will provide a flexible and transparent mechanism for financing
micro-projects, prepared by communities, NGOs, local governments which
improve the access of poor and vulnerable population to basic services,
enhance social service development and improve of communal services.
(a) types of projects eligible for USIF financing:
i. communal and basic social services:
Pre-school and basic general education institutions
Primary health care services
Community centers, libraries
Potable water supply
Sanitation and sewage
Access roads to and internal roads in villages
ii. targeted social care services. The types of social care
services micro-projects include, but are not limited to:
Day care centers for children at and youth at risks (social orphans,
street children, children from big families,
youth getting out of residential institutions), single elderly, disabled
(children and adults)
Shelters
Crisis centers
Foster family services
(b) Micro-project funding components. The micro-projects will have the
following components: (i) small civil works. The USIF will mainly finance
rehabilitation of existing facilities. Rehabilitation of the following
facilities will be eligible for funding: (ii) training and technical
assistance - the USIF will finance workshops, seminars, training of
service providers and users, information and counseling services, legal
advice, preparation of projects technical design; monitoring, supervision
and evaluation of on-going projects; (iii) goods - including minor
equipment and furniture, training supplies; (iv) recurrent costs - for
newly established social care services the USIF might cover some of the
recurrent cost in a matching mode on a declining basis.
(c) Micro-project selection. micro-project approval will be based on well
developed evaluation criteria, forming an integral part of the USIF
Operational Manual, which will be approved by the SB. Evaluation will be
based on the following groups of criteria: (i) social - number of
beneficiaries, expected social benefits for the community, involvement of
service users in project preparation and implementation and others, (ii)
technical and environmental - technical feasibility, compliance with good
standards and practices, quality and cost-effectiveness and others; (iii)
institutional and legal - professional competence, experience and capacity
of Implementing Agency, compliance with legislation; (iv) financing and
sustainability - community contribution as share of total project cost,
sustainability plan, including establishment of Beneficiary Association
and others.
2. Capacity building ( estimated cost US$3.5 million).     This component
-3 -



will assist the Government in social service strategy preparation and
social protection reform. It will strengthen MSLP and MOF capacity to
formulate, monitor and evaluate social services policies, improve social
service financing and contracting system; strengthen regional authorities'
(oblast, rayon) capacity to develop, monitor and evaluate social service
programs and improve social service quality through professional training
of social workers in social care service MP in two oblasts. The activities
of the component are articulated in the following sub-components:
(a) Sub-component One. Central Government Capacity Building. This
sub-component will aim at enhancement of analytical, applied research,
program/policy assessment, monitoring and evaluation capacity of parts of
MSLP and MOF working for social service system in the country. Exchange
and introduction with relevant foreign institutional experience for
monitoring and evaluation of social service policies, development of
social service quality standards and indicators, and assessment of new
models and approaches developed and supported by SIF in two pilot oblast
will contribute to development of national social service strategy and
monitoring system. Social service financing and contracting system will
be reviewed, new contracting arrangements tested in pilot oblast and
recommendations presented to the Government to improve social service
legislation. Findings of legal and financing reviews, assessments of new
models supported by SIF and recommendations to improve social service
system will be widely disseminated through a number of national
conferences and workshops during the project life time.
(b) Sub-component Two. Regional/Local Government Capacity Building. This
sub-component at the oblast and rayons level will address social service
program development, management, planning, implementation, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation issues on regional level. Pilot oblast and
rayon social service authorities will be provided with training, technical
assistance, hardware and software for development and maintenance of
social service database enriching it with new social service indicators,
and for regional social service program preparation. Relevant staff at
regional level will get guidance on supervision of new social service
provision and with assistance of local foreign consultants will conduct
ongoing supervision during the project life time period. Evaluation of
new models of social service provision and contracting will contribute to
further development of regional social service programs. Contracting and
procurement capacity development will be targeted to rayon officials in
charge of social care service provision. Experience gained and lessons
learned in piloting social service programming, monitoring, evaluation and
contracting will be disseminated in regional conferences in pilot oblast.
(c) Sub-component Three. Social Services Quality Enhancement. Two sets of
activities will implemented under this sub-component: (i) local trainers
will get an extensive academic and practical training in new social work
models with particular groups of vulnerable population as well as
supervision of that; (ii) they will prepare and provide special training
programs for social workers from targeted social service micro-projects,
financed under the micro-projects component in order to ensure quality
social services. New social service micro-projects will be regularly
supervised to ensure continuity and growths of social service quality
provided.
-4-



The component will finance software and hardware, training, consultant
services, studies, dissemination workshops and conferences, study tours.
3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. (estimated cost US$5.4
million). The objectives of this component is to ensure efficient
implementation of the SIF project in targeted areas by using effective
mechanisms of project management, proper tools of project monitoring and
evaluation , raising public awareness about project experience. These
objectives will be achieved through activities under the following three
sub-components:
(a) Sub-component One. Institutional Support to the USIF Executive
Office. This sub-component will provide training and technical assistance
to the USIF EO to implement the USIF project, build its capacity to
supervise, evaluate and learn from the implementation of micro-projects.
Also, training and technical assistance in the areas of communication,
procurement, financial and project management will be provided.
(b) Sub-component Two. Monitoring and Evaluation. This sub-component will
support tracking project performance and development impact; and reaching
the objective of assisting the reform of social protection and helping
government formulate reform strategies. Monitoring will be carried out at
the micro-project level, and at project level. Also, the monitoring will
be carried out in 2 directions: (i) project performance monitoring; (ii)
impact monitoring.
(i) Project Performance will be monitored through the
following activities:    annual procurement and technical audit of at least
20 9 of completed micro-projects; annual financial audit; opinion surveys,
on going supervision and monitoring by Supervisory Board, monitoring by
the state monitoring and control agencies, World Bank and donor
supervision missions.
(ii) Impact Monitoring will be conducted through
qualitative and quantitative impact assessments studies to be carried out
at oblast and raion level, including needs assessments, beneficiary
assessments etc.   The studies will cover at least 20 % of completed
micro-project and covered beneficiary annually.
This sub-component will finance consultants/studies, hardware and software
for MIS establishment, costs of MIS maintenance.
(c) Sub-component Three. Public Information and Education. This
sub-component will include activities aimed at: building public support
for the community based social services, promoting innovative and
cost-effective approach in social care services developed in the
project's implementation zones and supporting their replication
elsewhere; establishing an effective communications framework for
successful project implementation. These goals will be achieved through
well planned public information and education campaigns (IEC),
conferences, seminars for the media, video-, audio- and printed
information materials etc.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
- 5-



GOVERNMENT and
Community Contribution 21
IBRD                     50
IDA
Total Project Cost       71
6. Implementation
The proposed project will be implemented over a period of 5 years
(December 2001 - December 2006). The institutional and implementation
arrangements for the project include mechanisms and structures on central
and local levels. The following represents the key features of the set up
proposed for the project, which have been tested in the pilot phase of the
project and have proven to work effectively. 1. The highest governance
body of the USIF is a Supervisory Board (SB) which is composed of
representatives of the Government of Ukraine, Parliament, Office of the
President of Ukraine, trade unions, representatives of the public,
non-governmental organizations and international donor organizations. The
SB is headed by a Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine on social and
humanitarian issues. The SB oversees the work of the SIF Executive
Office, defines the policies of the Fund, and ensures their correspondence
with the overall policy of the Government in the social and economic
spheres. During project implementation a special consultative council to
the SB will be established comprised of representatives of the regional
and rayon authorities. 2. Central and regional project management
arrangements. Overall project implementation will be coordinated by the
USIF Executive Office (EO). For the purposes of the implementation of the
capacity building component, a special component coordinator will be
assigned in the MLSP, to ensure effective coordination within central
government and with regional authorities. The EO implements the tasks
specified in the Operational Manual according to its annual work program
and budget which is approved by the SB; reports to the SB, WB, provides
training and technical assistance for MP project preparation and
implementation to community based organizations (Implementing Agencies and
other CBOs); local NGOs, local contractors; and local self-governments
to implement and sustain microprojects. In order to achieve
cost-effective operations and increase local capacities the USIF will have
USIF regional staff in 8 project zones, each one comprised of 3 to 5
oblasts. 3. Regional Steering Committees (RSC). Local authorities and
local NGOs will be closely associated with USIF activities. It is
expected that, most of microprojects will be prepared by communities and
Implementing Agencies in close coordination with local authorities. In
addition, Regional Steering Committees (RSC), comprised of representatives
of rayons and oblasts radas/administrations and civil society (local
NGOs and academia), will be established at oblast level. RSC will
participate in microprojects pre-approval. 4. Implementing Agencies (IA).
The SIF will support local level initiatives identified and implemented by
beneficiaries themselves, organized into a community-based organization
(CBO), by institutions, which prove to represent the beneficiaries, by
local government in cooperation with community representation. These
could be small urban and rural municipalities, local associations, NGOs
and others, supported by communities. The IA will identify needs, prepare
sub-project proposals, enter into contact with the SIF to request
funding. They will also implement sub-projects when approved by the SIF
based on an assessment of their implementation capacity. During the
implementation they will report regularly to the SIF and the beneficiary
- 6 -



community on the progress of the sub-project.
7. Sustainability
The project will pay special attention to issues of replicability and
sustainability of micro projects, particularly operation and maintenance,
from the earliest stages of preparation and appraisal.     For each
micro-project, implementing agencies will be required to collaborate with
local government and develop sustainability plans, prescribing financial
and institutional arrangements for the post-project period. Secured
financing for operation will be one of micro-project approval criteria.
The EO will ensure the provision of technical assistance and training on
sustainability issues to implementing agencies, as well as local
government or other officials charged with the responsibility for the
sustainability of the quality of the service and its maintenance.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Country specific lessons: This project will build on the experience
accumulated and lessons learned in Ukraine through the implementation of
the Odessa IDF, the Coal pilot, Social Protection Support project, the
People's voice project and other investment operations. The CAS
acknowledges that one of the lessons learned from the implementation of
Bank assistance in the past few years is that the limitations of sectoral
approaches in addressing institutional weaknesses, weak institutional
capacity in Ukraine and political paralysis have been the main factors
underlying poor performance. Experience and evaluations of completed
operations point out that the key to success are: (i) institutional
capacities of Government, PMUs and non-government organizations; (ii)
participation at the local level, broad based support from Government and
stake-holder involvement; (iii) intensive TA; . The SIF project builds
upon these experiences and these issues have been addressed during project
preparation and incorporated in project design. In addition, lessons
learned from the pilot phase of the project in the region of Kmelnitzky
have informed project design, including: a) institutional and operational
aspect; b) functional partnership between the USIF, local governments, NGO
and communities, central government; c) public information and awareness
campaign design; d) development of the monitoring and evaluation system
with special focus on social impact and sustainability; e) development of
project targeting strategy - development of criteria for: identification
of the poor, vulnerable and marginalized groups to be targeted by the
project; micro-project targeting, selection and approval; c)
identification of mechanisms for financing sustainable services. The pilot
phase of the project also helped in generating adequate data for the
development of the USIF project procedures and documents, such as legal,
procurement and disbursement procedures and operational manual and
standard document forms. SIF specific lessons. The Bank has already
extensive experience with SIF type operations and their evaluation was
used to inform USIF project design.Commonly highlighted shortcomings of
SIFs and main issues that need to be addressed are:     (i) targeting:
leakages of benefit to the non-poor and gaps in coverage of the poorest,
despite general effectiveness in reaching poor, under-served areas and
marginalized populations. To address this issue, the USIF has excluded
from its menu for financing, microproject types which by their nature are
less well targeted (micro-credits, urban sewerage and others), The
project will target the poorest and most disadvantaged rayons in every
region and funds, and the poorest and most disadvantaged members within
-7 -



the communities. (ii) sectoral policies and investment priorities:To
ensure coordination with sectoral strategies, the project foresees the
following: (a) participation in the Supervisory Board of high level
representatives of concerned sectoral Ministries, chaired by the Deputy PM
for Human Development. The Supervisory Board is responsible to ensure
consistency of the USIF policies and investments with sector specific
reform strategies. A negative or a positive list of types of services to
be eligible will be used (e.g. only primary health care facilities, no
hospitals, no investment in institutionalized care etc.); (b) to ensure
that investment are not made in facilities and institutions slashed for
restructuring or closing, the USIF will require from the sub-project
proposals assurance that the proposed investment is consistence with
relevant National and Local Government service restructuring; (c) parallel
to the preparation and implementation of the project, the Bank team is
involved in the preparation of health and education reform strategies and
intensive dialogue on social assistance reform; (iii) Not well developed
evaluation systems and lack of attention to measuring SIF project impact
in order to identify types of sub-project investment maximizing the
effectiveness of interventions. The proposed project incorporates a system
of monitoring and evaluation, and funds are allocated in the financing
plan for this purpose. (iv) sustainability and maintenance of the
investment after the project is completed. Experience shows that on health
and education investments SIFs tend to do better than traditional line
Ministries due to the emphasis on community participation; on economic
infrastructure they do as well or as poorly as other agencies.
Nevertheless, the proposed project will pay special attention to this,
particularly in the case of social services where extensive experience is
not yet available. Specific measures in project design are the
requirement of at least 10 percent of community contribution to the
project cost, and the preparation in coordination with local government of
a sustainability and maintenance plan as part of criteria for project
approval.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Galina Y. Sotirova
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-0597
Fax:   (202) 477-3387
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
-8-



Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



