Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23085 UA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.21 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
FOR A
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
October 31, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
Ukraine and Belarus
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2001)
Currency Unit = Ukrainian Hryvnia (UAH)
I UAH = US$
US$1 = 5.339UAH
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL             Adaptable Program Loan
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CBO             Community Based Organization
CDP             Community Development Program
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
CU              Country Unit
CT              Country Team
CQ              Consultant Qualification
ED              Executive Director
ECA             Europe and Central Asia
EO              Executive Office
DFID            Department for Intemational Development
FMS             Financial Management System
HD              Human Development
IA              Implementing Agency
LAS             Intemational Accounting Standards
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC              Individual Consultant
IDA             Intemational Development Agency
DC              Direct Contracting
IDF             Institution Development Fund
IEC             Information and Education Campaign
IRF             International Renaissance Foundation
IS              Intemational Shopping
FBS             Fixed Budget Selection
LCS             Least Cost Selection
NIIS            Management Information System
MDF             Municipal Development Fund
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MLSP            Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MP              Micro-project
NIOF            Ministry of Finance
NCA             Needs and Capacity Assessment
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Non Governmental Organization
NS              National Shopping
OP              Operation Manual
PAL             Programatic Adjustment Loan
PHRD            Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PIU             Project Implementing Unit
PMU             Project Management Unit
RSC             Regional Steering Committee
SA              Special Account
SIA             Social Impact Assessment
SIF             Social Investment Fund
SB              Supervisory Board
TACIS           Technical Assistance for Commonwealth Indepent States
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID           United States Agency Intemational Development
USIF            Ukrainian Social Investment Fund
VP              Vice President
WB              World Bank
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Luca Barbone
Sector Manager/Director:    Michal Rutkowski/Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Galina Sotirova



UKRAINE
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    5
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                          6
3. Benefits and target population                                                         6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                          7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                   16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                      17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              18
2. Financial                                                                             19
3. Technical                                                                             19
4. Institutional                                                                         20
5. Environmental                                                                         21
6. Social                                                                                22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    25






F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    25
2. Critical risks                                                                    26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    27
G. Main by the Ministry of Finance and the Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           27
2. Other                                                                             28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        39
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          40
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      43
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    60
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           67
Annex 11: Targeting Approaches                                                          69
Annex 12: Micro-Project Cycle                                                           72
Annex 13: Micro-Project Criteria                                                        76
Annex 14: Capacity Building at Community Level                                          79
Annex 15: SIF Implementation Structure                                                  80
Annex 16: Needs and Capacity Assessment in Region of Khmelnitzky                        82
MAP(S)
IBRD 31552






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO UKRAINE
FOR A SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval a proposed loan to Ukraine for US$ 50.21 million to help
finance the Social Investment Fund Project. The Loan would be payable in 20 years with a grace
period of 5 years at the standard IBRD terms.
2.    The project would assist Ukraine to: (i) improve living conditions of poorer and
vulnerable groups of the population in targeted communities; (ii) empower communities and
vulnerable groups to address local social needs; and (iii) facilitate the reform of social protection
by creating models of targeting and service provision.
3.    These will be achieved through the development of innovative, quality and cost-effective
social and communal services, strengthening the solidarity sense of communities and vulnerable
groups, building the decision making, organizational and managerial capacities of communities,
NGOs and local government, and strengthening the policy formulation, monitoring and
management capabilities of central and local government in the area of social care services
financing and delivery.
4.    The Project has three components: (i) Community based Micro-projects; (ii) Capacity
Building; and (iii) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. The project is expected to
be implemented during a period of six years.
5.    Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
October 31, 2001
Vice President     Johannes Linn
Director           Annette Dixon
Sector Leader     Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader        Galina Sotirova






UKRAINE
Social Investment Fund Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: October 31, 2001                            Team Leader: Galina Y. Sotirova
Country Manager/Director: Luca Barbone            Sector Manager/Director: Michal J. Rutkowski, Annette
Dixon
Project ID: P069858                               Sector(s): SF - Social Funds
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data '-
LX] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 50.21
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75                             Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Fmnancing Plan (us$m):  : S;ource ;-o't --Local                           Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                       9.97           0.00          9.97
IBRD                                                          47.71           2.50         50.21
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              9.91           0.00          9.91
Total:                                                        67.59           2.50         70.09
Borrower: UKRAINE
Responsible agency: UKRAINE SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Ukraine Social Investment Fund Executive Office
Address: C/o Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
8/10, Esplanadna Str., 01023 Kyiv, Ukraine
Contact Person: Ms. Natalia Yasko
Tel: 380 44 463 5863, 417 2633         Fax: 380 44 417 1057            Email: Nyasko@usif.kiev.ua
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY     2 0C-- 20023 J.; .20043<   20       2005       2006       2007 <'2008 'K<,
Annual    2.55        7.35      10.50      11.35     10.00      6.41       2.05
Cumulative    2.55       9.90      20.40      31.75     41.75      48.16      50.21
Project implementation period: March 2002 - December 2007, 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/01/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2008
OCS PAD F   RP. Mt 2O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of this project are to: (i) improve the living conditions of poorer and
vulnerable groups of the population in targeted communities; (ii) empower communities and vulnerable
groups to address local social needs; and (iii) assist the reform of social protection by creating mnodels of
targeting and service provision. These objectives will be achieved through the development of innovative,
quality and cost-effective social and cormmunal services; strengthening the sense of soli darity of
communities and vulnerable groups; building the decision making, organizational and managerial capacities
of communities, NGOs and local govemment; and strengthening the policy formulation, monitoring and
management capabilities of central and local government in the area of social care services financing and
delivery.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
1.    Increased number of good quality, cost-effective services operational in targeted areas,
maintained and financially sustainable two years after the USIF investment (at least 500
micro-projects, including 450 communal services and 50 social care services
micro-projects).
Increased participation of NGO, community-based organizations (CBOs) and local
communities in decision making and management of community and social care services,
as measured by the proportion of participating communities initiating new activities after
the USIF and the number of user associations active two years after the project irvestment
(at least 400 user associations, CBOs active and new activities initiated).
3.     Government capacity to formulate, monitor and evaluate social policies strengthened,
measured by:
(i) National and regional plans for social care services developed by March 2007 (in the
two regions where social care services MP will be implemented), incorporating
targeting and service provision models developed under the USIF.
(ii) dissemination of evaluation reports (annual, starting with second year cf project
implementation - December 2003), based on the use of a modem s% stem for
monitoring and evaluation of social care services.
4.     Strengthened local entrepreneurship, measured by the number of contractors trained in the
USIF procurement procedures and participating in USIF activities (at lhast 500
contractors).
5.    Employment created in targeted communities, measured by the number of man-days
generated by micro-projects.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 20723-UA       Date of latest CAS discussion: September 12, 21Ct00
The CAS has placed poverty and human development at the core of the Bank program in Ukraine
and contemplates major expansion of assistance to reforms in the social sectors. Therefore, the (CAS aims
to assist the Government and civil society in the implementation of a broad-based poverty reduction
- 2 -



strategy by addressing directly the challenges faced by Ukraine, both from the demand side (civil society)
and the supply side (Government). The Bank program will help civil society increase its voice for better
institutions, better govemance, accountability and transparency, and better social service provision.
The SIF project is an integral part of the strategy for improving social services, with a specific
focus on disadvantaged and poor populations who have suffered the most from the economic and social
transition and ten years of economic decline. The proposed project will also contribute to the CAS
objectives of improving governance and institutions by strengthening the capacity of communities and local
government to address social needs and manage community social and economic services. The project
would help empower communities and vulnerable groups, strengthening a sense of solidarity at the
community level, fostering social inclusion, and creating partnerships between community, local
govemment and NGOs.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
*      Poverty disparities and poorly targeted social programs. The transition from the command-and
-control socialist state to a market economy has resulted in substantial dislocations, amplified by
institutional weakness and emergence of rent-seeking behavior, growth of poverty and disparity of the
impact of the transition on different population groups. The poverty analysis carried out by the Bank
team identifies children, single, elderly and other groups with specific circumstances as having highest
poverty risks. Poverty in Ukraine is characterized by significant regional disparities, with pockets of
poverty also existing in relatively better-off regions. Recent studies (Social Safety Net and Poverty in
Ukraine, TM Emily Andrews, ECSHD, January 2001, Project Files and Needs and Capacity
Assessment in Khmelnitzky region, report prepared by Nora Dudwick, ECSSD, February 2001,
Project Files) show significant regional disparities and the existence of pockets of poverty. While
poverty has been on the rise, the social assistance system has remained ineffective in providing
meaningful support to those most in need, mainly due to program, administration and financing
fragmentation, general under-funding, and design and implementation features leading to important
errors of exclusion and inclusion. For the first time since independence, the Government has
acknowledged the existence of increasing poverty problems, and has assigned high priority to the
development of a Poverty Reduction Strategy with Bank and other donor assistance. A first draft of
the strategy (Poverty Reduction Strategy, draft March 2001) foresees reforms aimed at reducing
poverty through the creation of better opportunities for productive employment and reform of social
security systems, and strengthening of support to the poor and vulnerable through better targeting of
social assistance.
* Inadequate, socially exclusive system of social care services. The system for social care services,
which has inherited the model of costly institutionalized care from the Soviet period, has been even less
able to adapt to constraint resources and changing environment, thus reinforcing social exclusion and
vulnerability of the client population.  Fragmented administrative, management and financing
responsibilities have added to inefficient use of resources and inadequate social care provision. Heavy
subsidies to institutionalized care outweigh numerous benefits and subsidies provided to some
vulnerable groups of the population such as disabled, children and the elderly. This, combined with the
absence of alternative service provision work as a strong incentive to families to prefer residential care
(there are admission queues), which reinforces inefficiencies and social exclusion. Reforms of the
social care services sector will require in the first place development of a strong community-based
services sector as an altemative to institutionalized care and building of strong support for the reform.
The Government is aware of the efficiency, quality and social inclusion advantages of community
based social care provision and is considering the preparation of a strategy for gradual downsizing of
- 3 -



institutionalized  care.   However, de-institutionalization  requires, building  the  alternative  to
institutionalized care - creating gradually a network of socially inclusive,accessible, equitable and
effective conmmunity-based services, diversification of service provision and the larger involvement of
communities and the NGO sector in monitoring and provision of services. This also requires building
of government capacities for program formulation, contracting out , monitoring and evaluation. As first
steps, the Government Poverty Reduction Strategy foresees the preparation of legislation and
regulations on social services contracting, and the Government has started the establishment of
community-based social services centers for some vulnerable groups.
*   Dysfunctional health and education systems and communal infrastructure.  A sustained economic
decline and the crisis management approach of the Government during the last 10 years have led also to
a dramatic deterioration of social services and community infrastructure, which seriously impacts
access of poorer communities and vulnerable groups to health and education.  Economic and sector
work carried out by the Bank HD team reveals that persistent under-funding, and the lack of clear
responsibility and accountability has resulted practically in disfunctioning health and educationi sectors,
worsening effectiveness and quality of services - no textbooks in schools, poor teacher training, no
medicines in hospitals and health centers - (reflected in increasing morbidity, spread of conuriunicable
diseases, dropping enrollment rates, etc.) The Government is aware that the crisis management
approach to social sectors is not sustainable if Ukraine is to preserve and develop its major asset for
long term economic growth - its human capital. Therefore, the Government is committed to social
sector reforms and has requested the Bank's assistance in reforms of health and education, aimed at
bringing programs in line with limited resources, and improving equity and effectiveness of these
programs.
A Needs and Capacity Assessment (NCA) carried out as part of project preparation in the pilot
oblast (Khmelnitzky) confirms: (i) increasingly restrained access to services, due to deterioration of
infrastructure, lack of management and organizational capacities at the communal/local level; (ii) poor
quality of services and public perception of deterioration and crisis; (iii) increasing informal payments
which further impede the poor from benefiting from social services and limit their long-term opportunities
for productive employment and improvement of living standards; (iv) deplorable state of social care
institutions, inadequate capacities for management and organization of social care at the local level, and the
lack of sufficient altemative community based service provision; (v) poor government capacities and the
need to increase public participation and NGO involvement in dealing with social services.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
*   Poverty and poor targeting. The overall system of social assistance in Ukraine needs major reform,
but passive safety-net programs will need to be complemented with more pro-active measures. This
project will provide support to the Government in identifying and demonstrating the effectiveness of
new targeting techniques, and implementing pro-active measures at the community level.
*   Social care. The strategic choice of this project is to support community-based social service
development, diversification of services provision (involving NGOs and creating the environment and
regulatory framework for private provision) as part of the development of a strategy for re orm of
social care and gradual de-institutionalization. The project will assist the development of the strategy
and will also have an important demonstration effect - it will build models of service provision which
could be replicated on a national basis and will thus contribute to building support to reforms.
Through the implementation of community-based social care services component, the projecl will be
- 4 -



used to test legal, institutional, and financing arrangements and third sector capacities, while the
capacity building component will assist in the development of the reform strategy based on experience
within the project.
* Health and education social service development and improvement of basic infrastructure. The
project will support improvement of basic community infrastructure, basic health and education
services. The strategic choice of the project is to provide the Government with innovative approaches
that can be analyzed, and that can be applied for the development of national strategies.
* Institutional capacity. The project will contribute to the development of institutional capacity of
central Government and local governments to identify needs, monitor programs, measure and analyze
effectiveness, coordinate activities, raise public awareness, and monitor and evaluate social impact. In
addition, it will strengthen capacities for policy formulation, service contracting and monitoring in
social care services. The project will also build the capacities of communities to address social needs
and of NGOs to manage and provide services.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project total cost is US$70.09 million to be financed by a Bank loan of US$50.21 million and
the Government and local community contributions. Some additional donor financing might be
forthcoming, although no amount can be specified at this point in time) The proposed project will finance
the activities under three main components briefly described below.
Component 1: Community-based Micro-projects: US$ 63.23 milion (incl. contingencies)
The objectives of this component are to: (i) improve living conditions of the target population by
providing better quality of and access to basic social and communal services in their communities; (ii)
empower communities and vulnerable groups to make decisions and manage process and assets; (iii)
create new and innovative community-based social care services as an alternative to residential care; (iv)
develop models for community-based service delivery; and (v) inform the development of social care
services policy. These objectives will be achieved through financing the activities under the following two
sub-components: (i) community-based services micro-projects; and (ii) targeted social-care services
micro-projects. The Ukraine Social Investment Fund (USIF) Operational Manual which details the
procedures and criteria for the micro-project financing and implementation arrangements will guide the
implementation of this component.
Component 2: Capacity Building: US$ 1.68 million (incl. contingencies)
The objective of this component is to assist the Govenmment in social protection reform and, in
particular, the preparation of a social care reform strategy by: (i) strengthening the capacity of the
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MLSP) and Ministry of Finance (MOF) to formulate, monitor and
evaluate social care services policies, and to define and implement improved social care service financing
and contracting system; (ii) strengthen regional authorities' (oblast, rayon) capacity to develop, monitor
and evaluate social care services programs; and (iii) improve social care services quality through
professional training of social workers in social care service micro-projects in two oblasts.
- 5-



Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation: US $ 4.68 million (incl.
contingencies)
The objective of this component is to ensure efficient implementation of the Social Investment Fund
(SIF) project in targeted areas by using effective mechanisms of project management, proper tools of
project monitoring and evaluation, and raising public awareness about project experience. This objective
will be achieved through activities under the following three sub-components: (i) institutional suppiort to the
USIF Executive Office; (ii) monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) public information and education.
Project Summary Table
1. Community-based Micro-projects   Social Funds           63.23        90.2      44.2:5      88.1
2. Capacity Building                Institutional            1.68        2.4       1.5.3       3.0
Development
3. Project Management, Monitoring and Institutional          4.68        6.7       3.9.3        7.8
Evaluation                          Development
Total Project Costs                      69.59       99.3      49.71-    99.0
Front-end fee                        0.50        0.7       0.50         1.0
Total Financing Required                        70.09       100.0      50.21 1        l00.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the Government in furthering its key Human Development (HID) and
institutional reforms by: (i) using non-traditional for (Ukraine) targeting techniques; (ii) assisti ig social
protection and in particular social care reform through testing new and innovative models of service
provision, establishing the example of cost effective community-based social services as an alteinative to
institutionalized care and as a step towards de-institutionalization; (iii) building the institutional capacity of
central, local governments, CBOs and NGOs in the formulation, management and provision of basic
services; (iv) promoting NGO participation in the provision of social care services and defining the legal
and institutional requirements for diversification of service provision. Evaluation of experiments and
innovations, possible within the framework of the SIF, will contribute to the development of Government
poverty reduction and social sector reform strategies.
3. Benefits and target population:
(i) The main benefits of the project will be:
1. Innovation in social care service provision and targeting approaches which could be used natimn-wide;
lessons leamed and used in Government reform and poverty reduction strategies;
2. Generation of visible development impact in terms of social and economic benefits for participating poor
and vulnerable communities and population groups through improved quality and access to communal
services and social care;
3. Increased community participation and local capacity to organize, plan, and manage their activities,
- 6 -



and to monitor, deliver and maintain services;
4. Strengthened social capital through the establishment of a basis of ownership and accountability at the
local level;
5. Strengthened local entrepreneurship and short term employment created in targeted communities.
(ii) Target population. The USIF will target:
(a) poor and disadvantaged communities in both rural and small urban areas (with a stronger targeting of
rural areas, as the NCA indicates that the rural - urban gap in terms of poverty is widening, when access to
health and education services is taken into account in the poverty measurement);
(b) vulnerable groups, such as children from dysfunctional families -- the so called "social orphans"-,
youth and children at risk, elderly persons living alone, large families, physically and mentally disabled,
and other disadvantaged groups of the population.
Considering the size of Ukraine and the regional dimension of poverty and social distress, SIF
programs can be successful only if very well targeted at two levels: (i) geographic - intervene in rayons and
communities which are most disadvantaged and poor; and (ii) within selected rayons and poor populations
target groups who are by nature more disadvantaged and at higher risks of poverty and social exclusion.
To ensure effective poverty targeting and reaching of vulnerable populations the USIF will use a range of
targeting technique which include:
* geographic targeting - the SIF will operate in the 2 most disadvantaged and poor rayons in each oblast
* targeting at the micro-project level through self-targeting (the menu of micro-projects limited to only
basic services) and through the micro-project evaluation.
Further detail of the targeting approaches of the SIF is provided in Annex 11. These approaches
are being used in the pilot oblast and could be modified to further strengthen targeting, based on lessons
learned during the pilot.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements
The proposed project will be implemented over a period of six years (March 1, 2002 - December 31,
2007). The project's institutional and implementation structure is developed at central and local levels. It
has been tested in the pilot phase of the project and has proven to work effectively. The following
sunmnarizes the institutional arrangements and project management structures (see Annex 15).
1. The Supervisory Board (SB) is the highest governing body of the USIF and is composed of
representatives of the Government of Ukraine, Parliament, the Office of the President of Ukraine, trade
unions, representatives of non-governmental organizations and international donor organizations. The SB
is headed by the Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, responsible for social issues. The SB defines the policies
of the Fund, and ensures their correspondence with the overall policy of the Government in the social and
economic spheres, oversees the work of the SIF Executive Office. The SB has had an important role in
project preparation. During project implementation, a special consultative council to the SB will be
established comprised of representatives of regional and rayon authorities.
- 7 -



2. Central and regional project management arrangements.  Project implementation will be
coordinated by the USIF Executive Office (EO). For the purposes of implementation of the capacity
building component, a component coordinator is assigned in the MLSP to ensure effective coordination
within central government and with regional authorities. The EO implements the tasks specified in the
Operational Manual according to its annual work program and budget which is approved by the SB. It
ensures the purpose-oriented use of funds; prepares quarterly and annual reports for the Supervisory
Board (SB), WB and donors. Also, the EO carries out competitive selection of consultants and supervises
comrnmunity procurement, maintains and updates the USIF Operational Manual, other regulatory documents
and the MIS. It provides training and technical assistance for MP project preparation, implementation and
service maintenance to community based organizations (CBOs); local NGOs, local contractors; and local
self-governments to implement and sustain micro-projects.
The EO is headed by an Executive Director. The Executive Director is responsible for overall project
coordination, including management of staff, procurement and disbursement, annual budget, fund-raising,
relations with intemational and national donors and partners, regular reporting to the SB and the World
Bank, project monitoring and evaluation. The ED is appointed by the SB, based on competitive selection,
reviewed and approved by the World Bank.
The EO has the following units (Departments):
Finance and Administration Department (a total of 6 staff and consultants) with the functions of
financial planning, budgeting, accounting, disbursement, procurement supervision and contracts
management at the central level.
The Promotion. Monitoring and Evaluation, and Communications Department (a total of 5
persons) is responsible for (i) promotion of the USIF to the general public and communities (iil planning
and coordination of various M&E studies and activities; (iii) coordination of activities under the capacity
building component; (iv) public relations and fund-raising.
The Micro-projects Department (6 persons) is responsible for micro-projects identification,
appraisal and follow up, i.e. (i) monitoring of micro-project selection/approval process, mncluding
monitoring of environmental aspects; (ii) preparing and updating of micro-project implementation standards
documents, operational guidelines, instructions; (iii) in collaboration with regional coordinators selection
and training of regional staff and consultants, including in environmental requirements of the l;SIF; (iv)
supervision of regional consultants' activities related to all stages of the micro-project cycle; (v)
representation of the USIF EO at the Regional Steering Committees' meetings; etc
MIS Unit (2 persons) is responsible for development, updating and maintenance of EO computer
network (including regional sub-networks) and computerized Management Information System (M[S).
Procurement/Legal Unit (I person) is responsible for ensuring consistency of USIF procedures
with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and national Ukrainian legislation, for the preparation of
standard bidding documents and samples of community framework agreements, as well as prcicurement
training of community implementing agencies (IA) and supervision of community procurement.
USIF regional units. In order to achieve cost-effective operation and increase local capacities the
USIF will have 8 regional units, one in each of the 8 project zones, each one comprised of 2 to 6 oblasts
(see Annex 15).  The USIF regional unit  includes a Regional coordinator (one per zone),  an
implementation specialist (one per zone), a social care services specialist (one per each oblast where social
care service micro-projects will be implemented). The Regional units are responsible for (i) regiDnal and
local level promotion and identification of micro-projects; (ii) micro-projects' appraisal and approval (in
- 8 -



coordination with regional Steering Committee); (iii) supervision of community procurement and
community selecting of local/field consultants, (iv) supervision and monitoring of micro-project
implementation; (v) provision of technical assistance and training to implementing partners.
3. Regional Steering Committee (RSC). Regional Steering Committee (RSC), comprised of
representatives of rayons and oblasts radas/administrations and civil society (local NGOs and academia),
will be established at oblast level. RSC will participate in micro-projects pre-approval.
4. Implementing Agencies (IA). The SIF will support local level initiatives identified and
implemented by beneficiaries themselves, organized into a community-based organization (CBO), by
agencies, which prove to represent the beneficiaries (Representing Agencies), by local government in
cooperation with community representation. These could be small urban and rural municipalities, local
associations, NGOs and others, supported by communities. The IA will identify needs, prepare
micro-project proposals, enter into agreement with the SIF to request funding. They will also implement
micro-projects when approved by the SIF and carry out procurement of works, goods and service
envisioned under the micro-project. During the implementation they will report regularly to the SIF and the
beneficiary community on the progress of the micro-project.
5. The role of central and local government. Building effective partnership with local and central
government and their full involvement in the USIF activities is considered of utmost importance for
achieving project development objectives and ensuring sustainability of project results. Therefore, central
and local government will be closely involved in the work of the USIF through the following arrangements:
(i) representatives of the central and local govemment sit on the USIF's Supervisory Board which is the
main strategy/policy formulation body of the USIF; (ii) representatives of local govenmment participate in
the RSC which are involved in micro-project pre-approval; (iii) local authority and local budget
participation in the monitoring and maintenance of rehabilitated services and particularly social care
services will be ensured.
Implementation Arrangements
1. Implementation strategy. In order to achieve its development objectives in a cost-effective way,
the project has developed the following implementation strategy, which varies for the different components
of the project:
(a) Community based services. This sub-component will be implemented in all 25 oblasts of
Ukraine in the two most disadvantaged rayons in each oblast, selected on the basis of agreed indicators of
poverty and vulnerability (see Annex I1). The implementation strategy is as follows: (i) funds will be
initially pre-allocated to each of 25 oblasts proportionally to the average population of a rayon in a specific
oblast; (ii) within each oblast funds will be pre-allocated to the 2 targeted rayons on per capita basis; (iii)
the 25 oblasts will be grouped in eight zones covering on average 2-6 oblasts; (iv) implementation will start
in the 34 zones in the center of the country which are expected to be covered with promotional activities
in approximately 8 - 9 months. Deadlines will be set up at the beginning of the promotion campaign in
each rayon, and the micro-projects proposals which do not meet those deadlines will not be registered by
the USIF; (v) while micro-project implementations is under way in the first zones (expected to stretch over
a period of up to 18 months), promotion activities will start in the first oblast of the next zones; (vi)
gradually, as pre-allocated funds are committed/disbursed, oblasts and zones that have started work first
will phase-out and new zones will phase-in covering all the oblasts by the end of the forth year. In case
total amount of funds requested in quality micro-projects proposals, submitted by the deadline is less than
funds pre-allocated for any specific oblast, the USIF SB will reallocate the remaining funds. This strategy
will allow sufficient presence at the time of project activities in any given area, with limited operating costs.
-9-



(b) Targeted Social Care Services. In order to ensure a critical mass of community bised social
care micro-projects to allow the development and testing of new service provision, financing and
monitoring schemes, this sub-component will be implemented in only two oblasts selected by the USIF SB
and agreed with the World Bank, as well as in the cities of Sevastopol and Kiev. The following criteria for
oblast selection will be used: (i) overall commitment of oblast authorities to reforms in the area of social
care services, as witnessed in a framework agreement with the USIF; (ii) commitment of oblast authorities
to cooperate with USIF and introduce innovative approaches to social care services provision; (iii)
commitment of oblast authorities to co-finance micro-projects. The funds for micro-projects financing will
be pre-allocated by the SB in the target regions by semi-annual portions. Promotion, preparation and
approval of the micro-project proposals will be carried out on semi-annual basis.
Detailed description of the micro-projects implementation strategy is provided in Annex 2
(c) Capacity building. The capacity building activities will be carried out at the central government
(MLSP and MOF) and regional level (oblast and rayon governments) in the regions where SIF social care
services micro-projects will be implemented. The MLSP will appoint a coordinator for this component,
who will be in charge of TOR preparation, training planning and other activities, while the USIF EO will
coordinate procurement, contracting and provide logistic support.
2. Implementation arrangements.
The following implementation arrangements have been made:
1. Operational Manual (OM), Project Implementation Plan (PIP). A detailed project Operational
Manual (OM), summarizing procedure and criteria for micro-projects identification, preparation and
selection, procurement, disbursement and financial management and specifying procedures, roles and
responsibilities for project implementation has been prepared. The OM includes a Finance and
Administration Manual and a Procurement Manual. The draft OM has benefited from the Bank team's
comments and recommendations and a final version of the OM, including arrangements for environmental
review and clearance procedures in the micro-project evaluation process and sample enviromnental
mitigation measures and review checklists, has been reviewed by the Bank and approved by the SB. The
EO has also prepared a Project Implementation Plan (PIP). It includes a project implementation schedule,
detailed project cost tables, detailed description of financial, procurement and disbursement arrangements
for the project, assessments of management capacity of the implementing agency, detailed description of
implementation strategy, strategy for pre-allocation of funds, draft terms of reference for consultancies, and
standard bidding documents (see Annex 8 for the Project Implementation Plan detailed outline). The
Operational Manual will be attached to the Project Implementation Plan.
2. Financial Management System. A project financial management system has been established at
the USIF EO with the assistance of external consultants. The system is based on IC accounting software,
which has been used in other Bank financed projects in the Region. In addition, all project related
information (micro-projects) will be kept on a Management Informnation System (MIS), that will be linked
to the 1C system. The accounting system will be maintained in accordance with International Accounting
Standards (IAS). The system is capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures, including planning, accounting and financial reporting related to the project.
Formats for the reports have been agreed with USIF. Operational procedures and guidelines for overall
project management, including financial management are documented in the Operational and Financial
Manuals, encompassing all levels of project management and administration. The status of the Financial
Management System (FMS) for the project has been reviewed by the Bank and the system was found
- 1 0-



satisfactory and the FMS certificate has been issued.
3. Disbursement. The Ministry of Finance will sign a Subsidiary Grant Agreement with the USIF
for the transfer of loan funds to the USIF. To facilitate disbursement of funds, a Special Account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank will be open. The account will be operated under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and as outlined in the Loan Agreement. The USIF EO has developed
sufficient disbursement capacity through implementation of 2 Policy and Human Resource Development
Fund (PHRD) grants at the project preparation stage and one grant for the pilot phase, provided by the UK
Department for Intemational Development (DFID). Disbursement under the project will be done using
traditional disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the basis
of SOEs).
4. Audit. The Borrower and the USIF will be responsible for providing to the Bank the project's
audited financial statements within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The accounts and financial
statements of the project will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit will be
comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e. all sources and utilization of funds, and
expenditures incurred) and it will be carried out in accordance with Intemational Standards of Auditing.
The USIF EO will appoint independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Cost of
the audit will be financed through the Bank Loan.
5. Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of small works, goods and consultants' services under
the micro-projects will be delegated to the Implementing Agencies of the communities. They will be
specially trained, provided with standard procurement documents and templates developed by USIF as
prescribed in the Operational Manual. Procurement of goods and consultants' services under the second
and third components will be done by the USIF EO. The procurement capacity of the USIF EO is being
developed. While preparing the project, the USIF has benefited from training and gained experience in
procurement management under two PHRD grants procuring minor goods and individual consultants. The
USIF EO is gaining additional procurement experience during the pilot project, funded by DFID grant,
which is expected to be largely implemented before project effectiveness. Due to the demand driven nature
of the project, the Implementing Agencies for micro-projects have not received any training yet and it could
be expected that their procurement knowledge is weak and that their procurement capacity has to be built.
The project contains activities and funds specifically targeted at strengthening of the procurement capacity
of the USIF EO and in particular the MP Implementing Agencies - procurement launch workshops and
training for each micro-project, consultants services. An Action Plan to strengthen procurement capacity
and detailed arrangements are presented in Annex 6.
6. Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring is essential to the success of the project. It would
support tracking project performance and development impact; and reaching the objective of assisting the
reform of social protection and helping govemment formulate reform strategies.
Monitoring will be carried out at the micro-project level, and at the overall project level and will be
in two directions: (i) project performance monitoring; (ii) impact monitoring.
(i) Project Performance will be monitored through the following activities: (a) procurement and
technical audit of at least 20% of completed micro-projects once every two years; (b) annual financial
audit; (c) opinion surveys; and (d) on-going supervision and monitoring by Supervisory Board, state
monitoring and control agencies, World Bank and donor supervision missions. Project performance
monitoring will rely on information gathered in the USIF Management Information System (MIS)
(including the special software developed by USIF, please see below), regular project reports (annual,
quarterly and special reports)
- 11 -



(ii) Impact Monitoring will be conducted through the qualitative and quantitative impact
assessment studies to be carried out at oblast and rayon level. Beneficiary impact assessment; will be
carried annually. Monitoring will include baseline data collection and analysis at oblast, rn.yon and
community (micro-project) level (desk studies of oblasts, socioeconomic studies of targetec. rayons,
preliminary and final micro-project appraisal, the appraisal report form will incorporate a base-line data
section and this data will be entered into the MIS). Special studies for social care services will -be carried
out to collect information on baseline capacity for policy formulation, monitoring and supervision, needs
and availability (access and quality).
The USIF Management Information System (MIS) will track down the infonnation collected
throughout the micro-project life cycle. The MIS will assist the EO and Regional staff in day to day
management of the USIF, it ensures proper information flow between the EO units. The USII; regional
units will have access to the MIS (including all its modules, database structure, user interface, etc.). The
link between the regional and central parts of the MIS, and the accounting system will allow to process all
the payments to the contractors directly from central office and under the centralized accounting; system.
The synchronization of information betveen the Regional Units and the Central Office will be carried out
on regular basis (at least daily) by packets. These packets will be transferred throughout dial-up Internet
connection (via SMTP, HTTP or FTP protocols). On-line synchronization and informnation exchange is
considered as a future development approach, depending on reliability and speed of connection lines.
The USIF MIS will be a modular system which will consist of the following main modules: (i)
resources targeting; (ii) promotion module; (iii) micro-project portfolio; (iv) micro-project appraisal; (v)
unit price database; (vi) micro-project budgeting module; (vii) micro-project approval module; (viii)
micro-project ranking module; (ix) micro-project follow-up module; (x) social follow-up and sustainability
module; (xi) monitoring module; (xii) security subsystem; (xiii) synchronization module; and (xiv) ink with
IC Accounting System. All MIS modules except of micro-project ranking, social follouv-up and
sustainability and monitoring modules, will be in place prior to Loan effectiveness. The MIS will be fully
operational by September 2002.
0. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following project alternatives have been considered:
I.     Sector Investment operation (healthieducationisocial care). The SIF approach was prefzrred for
the following reasons: (i) CAS assessment of relative ineffectiveness of sector specific operations in
Ukraine to deal with cross-sectoral institutional and governance issues; (ii) multi-dimentional cha-acter of
poverty and social exclusion requires cross-sectoral approach; (iii) SiFs address cross-sectoral issues, bring
about quickly, limited country wide, but important impact at the community level, which can have powerful
demonstration effect. The strengths of multi-sector SIF instruments are their demand responsiveness,
efficiency and quality gains in out-reach, social mobilization and community capacity building, enhanced
impact on poverty reduction which are more difficult to achieve through sector investment operation.
("Scaling up Community Driven Development for Poverty Reduction Draft, August 28, 2000); (iv) SIFs
have proven to be very good in adjusting to changed circumstances as reforms progress or are stalled and
are more immune to political changes, which is very important given Ukraine's track record of political
swings;  (v) SlFs are well targeted and reach the poorest households and marginalized groups very
effectively; (vi) SlFs are accountable, both in terms of financial and public accountability and 'tend to
outperfonn" other development interventions (Jorgensen Steen and Julie Van Domeleni). The las: two are
- 12-



also of particular importance in Ukraine; (vii) weak government capacity and commitment to reform in the
past has led to the cancellation of a health and education projects, fragmented responsibility and lack of
accountability has advised exploring bottom-up approaches for addressing poverty and strategies for
strengthening of demands for reform.
2.     A component within the Community Development Program (CDP). This approach was rejected
due to the following: (i) different development objectives. The CDP/Municipal Development Fund (MDF)
is aiming at creating the financial and budget environment at municipal level which will be conducive to
sustainable local service delivery; (ii) different financing models - MDLF provides loan financing, while the
SIF awards grants; (iii) different project evaluation criteria and implementing agencies. It was considered
that it would be difficult to package these two funds in one coherent operation, such a packaging would be
confusing to the borrower and lead to unintended implementation difficulties.
3.     The place of social care services micro-projects. At the very early stages of project preparation the
option of excluding social care services micro-projects from the USIF menu was considered. This
approach was rejected as the Poverty Update and the analysis of the NCA confirmed the vulnerability of
specific populations groups (such as single elderly, children in special circumstances, disabled and others)
in terms of risk of poverty and social exclusion, and indicated strong perception of the lack of adequate
social services to meet their special needs. In addition, the Government has confirmed its intention to
restructure social service provision and has made its first steps in that direction and the SIF project will
support this effort by exploring and testing approaches, institutional and legislative arrangements. Later on,
the option of not separating community-based services from social care services was considered but was
rejected for the following reasons: (i) the two sub-components, although very similar at first glance - e.g.
the same funding components - differ in their specific objectives. While the community based micro-project
component will contribute mainly to the first project development objective (improving the living conditions
of targeted communities), the social care services micro-project component aims at assisting the
Government in formulating a strategy of social care reform by providing the models/experiences and
lessons learned during the SIF implementation; (ii) social care services micro-projects are expected to be
smaller in total amount, but with a relatively bigger share of technical assistance/training, relative to civil
works; (iii) micro-project proposal preparation and implementation is expected to be different with a much
bigger involvement of NGOs and local authorities.
4.     Nationwide project coverage versus concentrating project activities in only a few poorer oblasts. A
limited coverage was rejected and keeping the project open to all Ulkrainian oblasts was agreed for the
following reasons: (i) poverty and social distress in Ukraine vary significantly within oblasts and important
pockets of poverty exist even in more affluent oblasts; (ii) broader (nationwide) coverage would allow
building countryside ownership and support for the project's targeting and the approaches for addressing
poverty issues and community empowerment.
5.     Including a micro-credit component in the project. This was rejected as an extensive experience
has shown that the better results are achieved when the micro-credit programs are designed as financially
sustainable financing institutions and are not mixed with grant programs such as proposed Ukraine SIF
project. Moreover, this type of micro-projects are usually less well targeted to the poor and most valnerable
(Jorgensen and Van Domelen).
- 13-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I    La~tes4Spervision
j I0: : :ffiASectorlWWf Issue  I W    - ;Project  :         P      at
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Issue: Mitigating of social        1. Coal Pilot Project -            S             S
consequences of coal mines closure    mitigating of social
consequences of coal mines
closure (completed)
Issue: Improving management        2. Odessa Participatory Client    HS            HS
efficiency and quality of municipal    Initiative - providing assistance
services through consultations with    to Odessa City administration
communities                        and local NGOs in improving
management efficiency and
quality of municipal services
through client consultations,
building capacity of local
NGOs - completed in 1999
Issue: Providing support to most   3. Coal Mining Restructuring
vulnerable members of communities    Project - Donbass Labor
Redeployment Program
component, sub-components:
providing consultations for
prelaid-off miners and their
family members, temporary
employment, community
economic development planning
- planned
Issue: Improving local services delivery 4. Municipal Development
APL (phase 1) - developing
sustainable fiscal systems at
local level that will improve
municipal services delivery -
planned (delayed)
Issue: improving social risk       Programmatic Adjustment loan
management through better targeting   - PAL 1, HD component (under
and more cost effective and quality    preparation)
social services, improved effectiveness
of health and education systems
Issue: enhancing the quality of    People's Voice project -
govemance by supporting local reform  implementing mechanisms and
initiatives and by monitoring the  procedures that promote public
- 14 -



delivery of local services through the   participation in building an
establishment of NGO coalitions    effective, responsible and open
government in: Temopyl,
Ivano-Frankivsk and the third
city to be yet selected
(under implementation)
Other development agencies
1. USAID. Issue: improving social    1. USAID: Social Protection
services delivery system at oblast level development at local level, t/a to
regional and local authorities in
Mykolaiv oblast - completed in
2000
2. UNDP. Issue: sustainable social   2. UNDP:
development                        2.1 Crimea Integration and
Development Program -
community development in
refugees communities and
ethnic minorities in Crimea
2.2 Civil Society Development
Program - support to local
initiatives on social
development, NGOs capacity
development
3. DFID. Issue: building civil society  3. DFID:
capacity                           3.1 NGO Support Project -
building capacity of local
NGOs in Donetsk, Kharkiv,
Lviv, Odessa
3.2 Community Development in
Donetsk Project - building civil
society capacity in isolated
mining and rural communities
in Donetsk region
4. TACIS. Issue: improving social   4. TACIS: Development of
services delivery at local level   Social Assistance Policy and
Services in Ukraine - improving
provision of essential social
services including community
development and mobilization in
Dnipropetrovsk region -
completed in 2000
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 15-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Country specific lessons: This project will build on the experience accumulated and lesson- leanied in
Ukraine through the implementation of the Odessa IDF, the Coal pilot, Social Protectic n St pport
project, the People's voice project, the community development programs funded by IUNI)P md DFID
and other donors, most of which however have been very limited in scope and coverage. The CAS
acknowledges that one of the lessons learned from the implementation of Bank assistance in th. past
few years is that the limitations of sectoral approaches in addressing institutional weakne;ses. weak
institutional capacity in Ukraine and political paralysis have been the main factors underlying poor
performance. Experience and evaluations of completed operations point out that the key to s iccess are:
(i) institutional capacities of Government, PMUs and nongovemment organizations; (ii) participation at
the local level, broad based support from Government and stake-holder involvement; and (iii) intensive
TA. The SIF project builds upon these and addresses the development of these aspects in both p-oject
preparation and implementation. In addition, specific lessons leamed through the implemrentation of
the pilot project, parallel to project preparation,  have informed project design, inclt iing:  (a)
institutional and operational aspect; (b) functional partnership between the USIF, local go' ernments,
NGO and communities, central government; (c) public information and awareness campaizn design;
(d) development of the monitoring and evaluation system with special focus on social inpact and
sustainability; (e) development of project targeting strategy, including criteria for identificarion of the
poor rayons and vulnerable and marginalized groups to be targeted by the project, 2s well as
micro-project selection and approval criteria; (f) identification of mechanisms for financing sustainable
services. The pilot phase of the project also helped in generating data for the development c" the USIF
project procedures and documents, including the legal, procurement and disbursement documents and
operational manual and standard document forms.
SIF specific lessons. The extensive experience accumulated in the Bank with SIF-type operations,
and in particular in the ECA region, and their evaluation was used to inform project desi.n
Commonly highlighted shortcomings of SIFs and main issues that need to be addressed (see Steen
Jorgensen and Julie Van Domelen, "Helping the Poor Manage Risk Better: The Role of Sociil Funds',
Armnenia SIF - I ICR) include:
(i) Targeting. Leakages of benefit to the non-poor and gaps in coverage of the poorest, desp' te general
effectiveness in reaching poor, under-served areas and marginalized populations. To address this issue. the
USIF has excluded from its menu for financing, micro-project types which by their nature arc less well
targeted (micro-credits, urban sewerage and others).  The project will target the poorest and most
disadvantaged rayons in every region and funds will be pre-allocated to rayons on a per-capita l7asis The
project's targeting methodology is described in Annex I 1.
(ii) Sectoral Policies and Investment Priorities. To ensure coordination with sectoral strategies, the project
foresees the following:   (a) participation in the Supervisory Board of high level represe-tatives of
concerned sectoral Ministries, chaired by the Deputy PM for Human Development. The Supervisory
Board is responsible to ensure consistency of the USIF policies and investments with sector speci Fc reform
strategies. A positive list of types of services to be eligible will be used (e.g. only primary health care
facilities, no hospitals, no investment in institutionalized care etc.); (b) to ensure that investment are not
made in facilities and institutions slashed for restructuring or closing, the USIF will require front the
micro-project proposals assurance that the proposed investment is consistence with relevant Na:iona and
Local Government service restructuring; (c) parallel to the preparation and implementation of t-e project,
the Bank team is involved in the preparation of health and education reform strategies, intensivt dialogue
on social assistance reform and assistance to the Government for the preparation of a medium tenn Poverty
- 16 -



Reduction strategy. In addition, reforms in health, education, social assistance and social services will be
supported by a Programmatic Adjustment Loan.
(iii) Monitoring and Evaluation System.  One of the lessons learned from SIF is the need to have well
developed evaluation systems and attention to measuring SIF project impact in order to identify types of
micro-project investment maximizing the effectiveness of interventions.  The project incorporates a
monitoring and evaluation system and funds are allocated in the financing plan for this purpose.
(iv) Sustainability and Maintenance of the investment after the micro-project is completed (Armenia SIF -
I, ICR). Experience shows that on health and education investments SIFs "tend to do better than traditional
line Ministries due to the emphasis on community participation; on economic infrastructure they do as well
or as poorly as other agencies" (Steen Jorgensen/Julie Van Domelen). Nevertheless, the proposed project
pays special attention to this, particularly in the case of social services where extensive experience is not
yet available. Specific measures in project design are the requirement of at least 10 percent of community
contribution to the project cost, and the preparation in coordination with local government of a
sustainability and maintenance plan as part of criteria for project approval. In addition, local governments
are fully involved in the project through the Regional Steering Committee which participate in
micro-project pre-approval and guarantee the maintenance of the services after the SIF. In addition, on of
the criteria for the selection of oblasts for the social care services component is the commitment of the
oblast to co-finance the micro-project and maintain the service.
(v) Bank Exit StrategY. One of the project objectives is to help the Government to test certain approaches,
learn lessons from this project, and incorporate changes and approaches into the mainstream government
social care service system. Therefore, the project will assist the government in the preparation of a social
care reform strategy and will build the capacities needed for its implementation. In addition, the project
foresees the creation of local user and client associations which will contribute to the maintenance of the
services after the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower has indicated that this project is a key part in the Government medium term-term
(2000-2004) program for poverty reduction during the CAS discussions in Spring 2000 and subsequent
meetings with CU, CT and the VP's visit to Ukraine in June 2000. An indication of strong commitment is
the establishment of the institution of the Ukraine Social Investment Fund (USIF) by a Cabinet of Ministers
resolution (COM Resolution No 740 of April 2000) and of the Supervisory Board of the USIF (COM
Resolution No 234 of May 2000). In addition, a number of donors have been invited to participate in the
Supervisory Board. The Government has provided the USIF with a fully equipped and renovated office.
A first PHRD grant for project preparation has been implemented in a record time of 6 months and a
second PHRD grant agreement is being implemented quickly. The Government has undertaken an
energetic fund-raising effort - raised 750,000 pounds from DFID for the pilot project implementation in
Khmelnitzky obalst, a CIDA grant and an IRF grant for USIF capacity building have been received and
activities funded by these grants have been already carried out. The pilot project activities in Khmelnitzky
oblast are proceeding very successfully, oblast and rayon authorities participate actively. Communities in
the pilot region have shown significant interest and as of now 78 proposals have been already submitted to
the USIF, 62 out of them were pre-appraised, out of which 26 were pre-selected.
A workshop on the definition of activities for the Capacity Building Component of the project was
held in March 2001. Representatives from the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of
Finance, Cabinet of Ministers, Trade-Unions took part in the workshop. Meetings with members of
- 17-



parliamentary committees on Finance and Banking, on Social Policy Issues, on Disabled and Pensioners,
on International Affairs, as well as with the leaders of key parliamentary factions demonstrated high level
of commitment to the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government has placed poverty reduction and reform of its social protection systeml at the core
of its program and has requested the Bank to assist in development of its strategy for reform. The Bank is
already engaged in intensive dialogue on social protection reform. In fact, adjustment support co reforms in
pension, social assistance and social services is being considered within a cross sectoral PAL project.
Policy discussions on health and education reform are also under way.   Also, the Bank has gained
considerable experience and expertise in design and supervision of operations using demand driven
financing mechanisms through SIFs and other community-based projects under supervision or preparation
in Armenia, Azerbaijan Bosnia, Bulgaria, Georgia, Lithuania, Moldova, Romania and Tajikistan. Based on
this experience, and the Bank's experience with social protection and social services in other middle income
countries in the region, the Bank is well-placed to provide assistance to the Government of Ukraine.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR - ' (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
Despite the difficulty to measure accurately, particularly for demand-driven projects, economic and
social rate of return are expected to be high due to an improved access to quality social services of poor
and vulnerable population. As part of the overall economic analysis of the project, the economic benefits of
project components can be evaluated in the following ways: (i) whether the cost of components are lower
than the benefits expected as an outcome; and (ii) whether each component has been design(d in a way
allowing to achieve given benefit at the least cost. The following economic benefits are expected to be
obtained through the implementation of this project:
1. Improved basic health and education services in rural areas and the deve opment of
community-based social care as an alternative to expensive residential care, and improved in-egration of
target population groups are expected to result in: (i) economic productivity of the population in target
communities and particularly of children through improved access and quality of education and health
services; (ii) improved quality of life of disadvantaged vulnerable groups who would otherwise be subject
to social exclusion if placed in residential institutions.  Although the community based nature of the
services to be financed makes difficult the traditional ex-ante cost benefit analysis - the spec:fic benefits
will depend on the mix of services that are ultimately selected for funding - it is expected that the project
will generate substantial benefit for the poor and vulnerable. The following decisions have been made tc
maximize effectiveness of the project, relative to its cost. First, the services will be based on needs and will
be demand driven and will deliver immediate benefits in terms of improvement in access and quality of
services. In the case of social care services, this will create the model of community-based social services
and will allow for their development as an altemative to the expensive residential care, eliminating the
demand for the development of new residential care services, thus bringing savings in the state budget. In
addition, the use of competitive procurement of the services and work is expected to generate savings in the
range of 5 - 20 percent of estimate cost for each micro-project (based on experiences and anal'ysis of other
social funds in ECA). in comparison to the cost of comparable services that are procured without
- 18.-



competitive bidding.
2. The experience of other countries in ECA undertaking similar projects has been showing
demonstrable economic benefits. It is planned that cost-effectiveness analysis will be carried out based on
the results of the ongoing pilot projects and will be compared with similar public and NGO programs as
well as with the costs of residential institutional care as appropriate. The methodology outlined by Bank
guidelines for these types of operations will be used to carry out the analysis. The study is planned after the
first year of implementation. Based on the study and lessons learned in the pilot project the cost-benefit
criteria of community-based projects will be developed. Further cost-benefit analyses will be carried out for
each individual community-based project. Also, the study will look into the financing mechanisms of
community-based social services and proposals for further targeting of expenditure, improved quality of
expenditure, improved monitoring and evaluation of expenditure will be developed and will inform the
development of the Government strategy.
3. Empowering communities to address their social need, strengthened capacity to organize, plan
and participate in decision making and implementation of ra.icro-project of vital community importance will
result in enhanced initiative and participation, strengthened demand for better services and accountability
and social cohesion, which is critical for furthering economic reform and social development.
4. Strengthened government capacity (at central and local level) to formulate policies, monitor and
evaluate social programs is a foundation of social protection reform. In particular, it would foster social
care service reform and the development of a better quality and more cost effective social care sector. In a
non-project scenario, it is reasonable to assume a continued provision of services by different government
institutions in an uncoordinated manner and without proper monitoring and supervision.
5. A secondary but quite important benefit of the project is expected to be the strengthening of
local entrepreneurship and the creation of temporary employment in poor and disadvantaged communities
(based on experience of SIFs in other ECA countries).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = %  (see Annex 4)
No financial analysis will be carried out as this is a non-revenue generating project.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is not expected to have significant fiscal impact. The majority of micro-project will
rehabilitate and improve existing facilities and services, such as health and education. In these cases, the
project is expected to lead to savings in maintenance cost, as rehabilitation will enhance energy saving and
better space utilization. In the case of social care services, the project may result in need for allocation of
recurrent cost in app. US$ 40,000 per year, which is a 0.02 % of current social services spending.
However, in the long-tern the fiscal impact of the project is expected to be at least neutral, as the social
care services reform strategy will lead to reallocation of resources from the costly and inefficient residential
care to the community based services sector, the model and the regulatory framework for which will be
created during project implementation.
3. Technical:
At present, it is anticipated that the technical issues involved in the project are the following:
Policy and institutional development issues. The project will assist the MLSP and MOF to develop
- 19 -



contracting arrangements for social care and monitoring and evaluation capacities.  Development of
standards of care and monitoring indicators will be a principal issue for the project. The training and
technical assistance to be provided will need to ensure high technical standards. In addition, as the project
will operate in only selected communities and regions, information and participation of broad 3overnment
and intensive dissemination of experiences will need to be sustained, so that the expt riences and
developments under the social care micro-projects are replicated nation-wide and incorporated successfully
in Government program.
Regulatory. Micro-projects will help develop and introduce energy efficiency measures and improved space
utilization in rehabilitated social infrastructure. Therefore there might be a need to reviewv and revise
existing construction and space norms/standards.
4. Institutional:
Institutional factors that might affect project implementation include the following: (i) political
stability and commitment to reform; (ii) conmmitment and effort to develop capacity of the Government for
formulation of policies and program monitoring and evaluation; (iii) coordination and cooperation issues
within the Government, with regional authorities and with external partners.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Local government, NGOs and CBOs will be the executing agencies for the micro-pro ects and the
success of the project will critically depend on their capacities. Investment for training and capacity
building will be required and are an integral part of every micro-project proposal. The Central government
and regional and rayon governments will be the executing agencies for the capacity building cemponent.
4.2 Project management:
Project management will be carried out by the Executive Office (EO) of the USIF in (ollaboration
and under the guidance of the Supervisory Board of the USIF (see Annex 15 for the structure of the EO).
The EO is to receive training and technical assistance throughout the project. Donors have already started
training and technical assistance activities (UNDP, IRF, DFID, CIDA). The EO capacity is being
strengthened through the implementation of the pilot project. The EO staff has been recruited through a
competitive selection process carried out by a special commission comprised of members of the SB and
representatives of donor organizations. A long-term resident international technical advisor ro the EO to
assist with pilot project implementation is located in the EO.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The draft Country ProcLlremenlt Assessment Report (CPAR) for lkraine has been r:viewecd and
commented by the Gocrnnmcnt and is cxpected to be finalized in early 2002. This assessment examined
public procurement legislation and practice at all levels of the administration, reviewed the commercial
environment for purchasing. HIaving started from a position of centralized control over the allocation of
state orders, Ukraine has made commendable progress in extending the spread of competitive procurement
procedures to much of the public sector. In 2000, some 82% of public tenders were conducted by open
Tendering, the most competitive procurement method provided for under the legislation. The Government
has also made a considerable progress in increasing the transparency of public procurement. for example
by the mandatory advertisement of bidding opportunities. In the area of legislation, the passage, in
February 2000, of the new Law "On procurement of Goods, Works, and Services for Public Funds" (No.
1490-III) represents a significant step towards the establishment of an open and transpazent national
procurement system in Ukraine.
The procurement capacity assessment of the IJSIF EO was carried out and showed tiat the USIF
EO had already built procurement capacity through procurement training (WB regional traiining, held in
- 20 -



Kiev in fall 2000) and gained procurement experience through the utilization of two PHRD grants during
project preparation and one DFID grant on financing pilot microprojects. The capacity of the EO will
further be strengthened through planned intensive procurement training during the pilot implementation and
regular training sessions, supervision and guidance from DFID financed consultant and support from the
World Bank procurement specialists.
The procurement capacity of some of the communities was also considered. Capacity of
communities to conduct procurement requires further strengthening through Microporject Launch
Procurement Workshops that are planned to be conducted during Framework Agreement signing. Intensive
couching and supervision form the USIF EO is also planned throughout project implementation. Sample
procurement documents for communities were drafted and reviewed by the Bank. The procurement training
of communities will be an important knowledge transfer and dissemination of the procurement culture to
the communities is one of key elements of the capacity building under the project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The country financial accountability assessment for Ukraine is under preparation, it has been
discussed with the Government, and its recommendation and findings will be taken into account. Ukraine is
a high risk country due to widespread corruption. To mitigate this problem, financial management has
been the focus of attention during project preparation. An assessment of the USIF EO was carried out and
an action plan for the development of a good financial management system and building of the FMS
capacity was planned and is being carried out. A project financial management system, incorporating the
projects MIS is been established at the USIF EO with the assistance of extemal consultants. Operational
procedures and guideiines for overall project management, including financial management has been
documented in the Operational and the Financial Manuals, encompassing all levels of project management
and administration. An independent audit firm acceptable to the Bank to audit the project accounts has
been selected and the audit will be carried by September.
S. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No rmajor environmental issues are anticipated due to the small size and rehabilitation nature of
micro-projects. The project sites will be scattered in villages and city neighborhoods with existing
infrastructure to be repaired and very limited small scale new construction, if any. These sites will not be
near any protected areas or critical natural habitats. The project focuses on rehabilitation of small
community social infrastructure, such as schools, health centers and civil works are expected to be limited.
Certain micro-projects, such as potable water, sanitation and hygiene and related health and education
programs and environmental clean-up micro-projects should have small but positive environmental benefit.
In addition, to ensure full consideration of enviromnental issues, the project will include procedures and
implementation arrangements for environmental screening and mitigation measures.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 21 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been establishcd to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project en the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The micro-project selection procedure includes assessment of possible negative environmental
impact at two stages - at the stage of pre-selection and at the stage of micro-project field/desk appraisal
(reflected in section 4.1.2 and sections 4.2.1/4.2.2 of the Operational Manual). USIF Guidelines on
Environmental Procedures have been developed and included into the Operational Manual (annex 9.1).
According to the Guidelines an environmental assessment is considered an important and integral part of
the micro-project cycle. As part of the environmental review, all micro-projects will be required to present
clearances/permits/license/approvals from responsible environmental authorities and the condit.ons placed
by these authorities, as appropriate, would be included in the contractor bid documents. Environmental
review check-lists by types of the micro-projects, as well as environmental prevention and mitigation
measures checklists have been prepared and are include din the Operational Manual. In addition, the EO
staff are working with Central govemment and authorities in the pilot region in collecting ancd reviewing
environmental regulations and standards. Further training and TA on environmental issues will be provided
to the EO staff within the technical assistance financed by the UK DFID grant and regional staff will
receive training on a regular basis throughout project implementation in environmental assessment, as part
of their overall training in appraisal.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The Needs and Capacity Assessment carried out in preparation of this project in Kihmelnitsky
oblast has highlighted the probleins that are common to this stage of development in Ukraine, i.e. (i)
increasing poverty; (ii) increasing rural-urban poverty gap; (iii) impact of the land privatization on rural
well-being; and (iv) impact of electricity shortages on the living conditions. In addition, thfe study has
looked into needs in social services area and assessed local capacities and coping mechanisms to deal with
the problems. The needs are numerous and details can be gather from the report (Project files, see Annex
8). The study also made recommendations which largely informed the USIF project objectives and design
and can be summarized as follows: (i) implement the project/policies that will be moving away from the
residential social care provision to the alternative community-based services; (ii) building community
capacity and building grassroots organizations to represent community interests; and (iii) promoting
sharing of information and coordination of activities.
The project is expected to have significant social development outcome as it is investing in:  (i)
improvement of social services, such as education, primary health care and other; (ii) targeted social care
services for vulnerable population groups; (iii) capacity building for communities and civic organizations;
and (iv) participatory needs assessment, monitoring and evaluation.
As a result, social development outcomes are expected to include: (i) improved quality and variety
of social services available to poor population groups; (ii) enhanced social capital through strengthened
participation, trust and social partnership; and (iii) lessons/experience for reforming social care system.
6.2 Participatory Approach: i low are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has used participatory approach throughout project preparation and appraisal. The
project Supervisory Board, the main decision making body of the USIF, includes members representing
government (MLSP, MOE, MOF), Parliament and the Presidential administration, NGOs and donor
organizations. Participatory workshops have been carried out at regional level in the pilot oblast for
information, dissemination and consultation purpose. Further, participatory workshops for designing the
- 22 -



project LogFrame and for defining the capacity building component have been carried out. The primary
beneficiaries, such as vulnerable and marginalized community members, were consulted extensively
through the needs and capacity assessment (NCA) which has informed the design of the targeting
mechanism of the project. The project design ensures that these consultations continue on a regular basis
during follow-up monitoring and evaluation work. Mechanisms and criteria for community participation to
ensure participation of the representatives of the communities and beneficiary groups in the micro-project
selection and management in order to adequately reflect their needs are developed and incorporated in
project design. Communities are required to participate in sharing the investment cost. Participation
criteria are further detailed in project Operational Manual.
A matrix below describes the approaches to and inputs of each stakeholder, which have been
incorporated in project design:
Stakeholders          Information Source       Consultation/           Partnerships
Participation
Beneficiaries         Needs and Capacity       Needs and Capacity      Preparation and
Assessment Report       Assessment Studies       implementation
Local  Organizations                                                   plans
and Communities       Information              Decision making, IA
Dissemination and       selection
consultation workshops
participatory
Town hall type          micro-project appraisal
community meetings
Investment sharing
Public Information
Campaign and other      Participatory monitoring
communication activities   and evaluation
General Public        Public Information and    Information
Education Campaign      Dissemination
Government, central    Project design          Participation            Preparation and
and local             workshops                                        implementation
Agreements reached      plans
Information
Dissemination and       Monitoring and
consultation workshops    evaluation
Meetings                Incorporation of lessons
leamed
Aide-Memoires
Information
Project Documents       Dissemination
Public Information and  Project co-financing
- 23 -



Education Campaign
Ensuring the O&M
Investment sharing
International          Meetings                 Technical Assistance     DFID
Organizations          Aide-Memoires            Co-financing             UNDP
Project Documents                                Internationil
Renaissance
Foundatior
Sida, Sweden
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society organizations have fully participated in the project preparation and will play a major
role in project implementation as the NGOs, CBOs and local governments qualify as implementing
agencies for individual micro-projects. Consultations with NGOs during the project prep-,ration and
implementation of the pilot, which will continue in the implementation phase, have been carried out in three
ways: i) the presence of an NGO representative on the supervisory Board and the Regionil Stzering
Committees; ii) consultation with local and international NGOs during Bank missions and in thf course of
the NCA study to leam more about their programs and beneficiaries (the following are some of the NGOs
which have been regularly consulted - Intemational Center for Prospective Studies - "Peoples' Voice
Project", Counterpart Creative Center, Institute of Reforms, Ukrainian Electors' Committee, and others;
and iii) provision of TA and consulting services by NGOs and academia.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project places emphasis on encouraging community, NGO and local government involvement
in social service delivery and should therefore have significant social impact in terms of increasing local
capacity to deal with local problems, promoting community self-reliance, and building trust in local
government. The USIF is expected to have considerable impact in promotion of social partnership and
social development in Ukraine by making local NGOs and CBOs compete for grants for commnnmity-based
social services and rehabilitation of small community social and economic infrastructure, through increased
involvement of civil society in supporting vulnerable and marginalized population groups, promotion of
new forms and initiatives in the area of provision of social services, promotion of partnerslhip between
stake-holders (community, direct beneficiaries, NGOs and local contractors).
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes'?
The project has elaborated a monitoring and evaluation system which will help track p2erformance
and monitor impact throughout the life of the project. The central management information system (MIS),
including special software will enable close inspection of progress toward project objectives. In addition,
the project's emphasis on training and capacity building for all actors involved should increase the chances
for achieving project social development objective. Annual beneficiary assessments will be carried out in
participating communities to monitor the impact of the project. These studies will incorporati the social
development indicators which are part of the project LogFrame (see Annex 1).
- 24 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                      Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                       C Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                C Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will devote considerable resources to ensure sustainability by:
(i) incorporating lessons learned from the project into the Government strategy for social care services
reform;
(ii) devoting close attention to issues of micro-project replicability and sustainability, particularly
financing, operations and maintenance, from the earliest design and appraisal stages. Building-in strong
monitoring and evaluation components in each micro-project, including cost-effectiveness evaluations and
cost-benefit analyses. Encouraging to keep micro-project costs low and contracting implementation out to
private contractors. For each micro-project, implementing agencies will be required to collaborate with
local government and develop sustainability plans, prescribing financial and institutional arrangements for
the post-project period. Secured financing for operation will be one of micro-project approval criteria. The
EO will ensure the provision of technical assistance and training on sustainability issues to implementing
agencies, as well as local government or other officials charged with the responsibility for the sustainability
of the quality of the service and maintenance of the infrastructure;
(iii) diversifying sources of financing of investment costs, including co-financing by the community, central
and local government. Requiring the Government to finance the recurrent cost for micro-projects sites and
social care services;
(iv) providing training and TA to the communities, local governments and lAs in fund raising and
management, encouraging fund raising activities to maximize non-public funds involved in the project;
(v) allocating considerable resources to the capacity building component of the project for developing the
capacity of the central government to monitor and evaluate the project outcomes and ensuring that the skills
necessary for micro-project operations and maintenance are available at the local level;
(vi) implementing public information and education campaigns, disseminating information on success
- 25 -



stories and having strong demonstration effect through disseminating results of successful implementation
of micro-projects. The dissemination efforts will cover local and central authorities and civil ,ociety to
show what is feasible and possible;
(vii) developing and implementing strong monitoring and evaluation system which if successfil will be
further incorporated into the mainstream government monitoring of social care services.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Amnex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Govermment does not maintains its               S          During the last year the Government has
commitment to poverty reduction and                        re-iterated its commitments to poverty reduction
social services reform                                     and social services reform. The Bank is
assisting the preparation of the (iovemment
poverty reduction strategy. In fact, the
Government has already undertaken important
measures for social sector reforrns and has
started the establishment of comrnunity-based
social care services for disadvantaged groups.
The Bank also supports social care reform
policies and overall social risk management
under a PAL.
Effective poverty and vulnerable groups         S          The Government has re-iterated its commitment
targeting is not adhered to                               to improved targeting and is working with the
Bank team to this end within the preparation of
the Poverty Reduction strategy. Targeting
approaches employed by the SIT have been
developed jointly with central and local
government officials and experts and the pilot
project has demonstrated thorough
understanding and strong ownership. In
addition, the project envisages intensive
discussions and education/dissemination
activities throughout project implementation.
Funding for recurrent cost for service          H          The project foresees close invol,lvement of local
operation and maintenance is not                           Government as early as micro-pr-oject proposal
provided; local governments are not                        preparation. Training and workshops will be
willing to participate                                     carried out and sustainability plans, agreed with
Local govemment, will be a criterion for
micro-project approval. The experience in the
pilot project has shown interests and
commitment on the part of local governments
and communities.
From Components to Outputs
Communities and targeted groups are not         M          The pilot project in Khmelnitzk\ has indicated
motivated to participate in training and                   strong interest in participating. Intensive public
- 26 -



participate in USIF activities                        awareness and out-reach programs have been
designed in the project to facilitate and assist
communities, to generate community support for
vulnerable and marginalized groups.
Qualified people and NGOs interested in     S         Preliminary studies and experience in the pilot
social care provision are not available              region have indicated that NGOs with
experience and service provision capacity exist
and are interested in participating in the project.
In addition, the project includes intensive
training of service providers, which would
further be modified based on lessons learned
from the pilot.
Staff turn over in Government and local     S         Tum over of staff at the expert level of the
administration                                        social protection system has been less dramatic
in Ukraine in recent years. However, in order to
address this issue, the project incorporates plans
for periodic training and intensive program of
workshops and information dissemination
involving broader circle of experts in the system.
Government counterpart funds are not        S         A commitment for the provision of counterpart
provided on a timely basis                            funds is a condition of negotiations and the
inclusion of a budget line for SIF counterpart
funds in the state budget for every year will a
condition of effectiveness for year 2002 and the
annual allocation will be a part of the annual
work program discussed with the Bank..
Turn-over in the USIF EO, qualified         H         The projects foresees competitive salaries and
and motivated specialists are not available          intensive training opportunities as part of the
effort to keep qualified staff motivated and
willing to stay in the EO.
Overall Risk Rating                         5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main by the Ministry of Finance and the Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Board conditions
* The financial management module (FMS module) of the MIS is operational (FMS certificate is in
place); and
- 27 -



*   Final version of the Operational Manual (including the Procurement Manual and the Finance and
Administration Manual), satisfactory to the Bank has been approved by the Supervisory Board of the
USIF.
Effectiveness conditions:
*   the Subsidiary Grant agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower, by the Ministry of
Finance and the Mininstry of Labor and Social Policy (MLSP), and the Ukrainian Social Investment
Fund (USIF)
*   The Borrower shall have made available counterpart funds adequate for the first year of pro ect
implementation.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Other conditions in the Loan Agreement:
(i) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank the project's audited financial statements within six months
after the end of every fiscal year;
(ii) the Borrower shall submit the project progress report to the Bank every six months;
(iii) once every two (2) years the Borrower shall carry out the procurement and technical review of
20% of completed micro-projects annually and submit the report to the Bank within six months after
the end of its fiscal year;
(iv) the Borrower shall carry out beneficiary impact assessment annually and submit the report to the
Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year;
(v) the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the project, the USIF Supervisory Board under
TORs and composition agreed with the Bank;
(vi) the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the USIF Executive Office, with
resources, staff and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(vii) the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the project, the Capacity Building Coecrdinator in
the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy under TOR agreed with the Bank
Other conditions in the Project Agreement:
(i) USIF shall submit a report to the Borrower and the Bank in order to carry out the project mid-term
review by March 31, 2005.
(ii) USIF shall implement the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and shall not amend
or waive any provision thereof if in the opinion of the Bank this would materially and adversely affect
the Project implementation.
H. Readiness for Implementation
3 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
- 28 -



Z 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
N 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Sample procurement documents will be prepared prior to Negotiations
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
N 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Galina Y. Sotirova               Michal J. Ru&owski; Annette       Luca Barbone
Dixon
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
2. Improved targeting of   survey data and analysis   reforms are mnaintained
social programs and quality of
social services            2. Beneficiary impact      2. Political stability is
assessments and public     maintained
2. Increased community and   opinion surveys
NGO participation in
management and provision of
social services
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The project development    1. # of beneficiaries expressed 1. Impact beneficiary  1. Government commitment
objectives are: (i) Improved   satisfaction with provided  assessments           to poverty reduction and
living conditions of poor  services                                              improved slcial services are
communities and vulnerable  2. # of micro-projects    2. USIF annual reports and    maintained
groups in target areas; (ii)    completed by type and target MIS data             2. Effective poverty and
empowered communities and  groups                                                 vulnerable groups targeting
vulnerable groups in targeted  3. % of participating  3. MLSP reports             strategy is anered to
areas to address local social   communities which have                            3. Funding of recurrent cost
needs; and (iii) Assistance to  initiated new project activities 4. MTR           for service peration and
reform of social protection by  without USIF participation                        maintenance provided
creating models of targeting   4. # of Users' Associations
and service provision      established
5. national and regional plans
(for targeted regions) for
sustainable social services
developed
6. targeting and service
provision models used by
USIF, incorporated in
Government programs.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Community -based           1. # of micro-projects     1. MIS                      1. Local government ensures
micro-projects             completed, total, by type and  2. USIF project reports  funds for operation of services
1. Improved basic social and  beneficiary group       3. Bank supervision reports   2. Communities and targeted
communal services that can   2. # of beneficiaries, total and 4. Government (central and   groups are motivated to
- 30 -



result in immediate         by type of micro-project    local) administrative data  participate in training and
improvements of the living    3. improved cost per      5. Beneficiary assessments    participation in the USIF
conditions in targeted areas;  beneficiary for renovation of                        3. Qualified people and NGOs
2. Innovative, cost effective    social and communal                                available and interested in
and inclusive community    infrastructure, and for social                           social care provision
based social care service   care services under the SIF as
promoted                    compared to existing practices
3. Improved capacity of     4. Committed non-SIF funds
communities to solidarity   for sustainability and
generate and implement local maintenance
initiatives                 5. % of services operational 2
4. Involvement of civil society years after the SIF
(NGOs and CBOs) in          6. Number of microprojects
delivery of social care services with NGO-provided social
to vulnerable groups        services
5. Strengthened local       7. # of contractors
entrepreneurship and create   participated in USIF work
short term employment in    activities
targeted communities        8. Amount of community
employment generated
Capacity building
1. Strengthened Government  1. # of regional social care    1. USIF project reports  1. Minimum staff turn over in
(central/regional and rayon)   services programs developed  2. MIS generated data   Government (MLSP, MOF
capacity to formulate, monitor 2. Social care services in  3. WB mission reports and    and regional and rayon
and evaluate social policies   target oblasts evaluated and   MTR                   administration in targeted
2. Improved capacity for    experience disseminated                                 oblasts)
social care provision       nationwide                                              2. Skilled trainers and social
3. New social service                                   service providers available
purchasing models introduced                            and willing to participate
in the target oblast
4. M & E system for social
services in place and used by
staff in MLSP and the
targeted oblasts
b) up to 500 social care
providers and trainers in the
targeted oblasts trained
modern methods for social
care provision
Project management,         1. Updated USIF Operational  1. USIF project reports    1. Government counterpart
monitoring and evaluation   Manual                      2. WB supervision           funds provided on a timely
1. Transparent mechanism for 2. Public access to bid    3. beneficiary assessments    basis
attracting and channeling   evaluation and all USIF                                 2. Minimum staff turn-over in
local and decentralized funds  records on implementation                            the USIF EO and regional
2. Effective monitoring and   and financial management                              structures
evaluation                  3. Annual USIF bulletin
- 31 -



published
4. MIS fully operational in
first year of USIF operation
Baseline data established for
all USIF outputs
5. at least 10 impact
assessments carried out of
impact assessments carried
out
6. regular media spots on
USIF activities
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
Component 1: Community-  US$ 63.23 million            Quarterly progress and      Counterpart funds are
based micro-projects                                  disbursement reports        available in a timely manner
Component 2: Capacity      US$ 1.68 million           Quarterly progress and
building                                              disbursement reports
Component 3. Project       US $ 4.68 million          1. Quarterly progress and
management and monitoring                             disbursement reports
and evaluation and                                    2. Annual audit reports
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
The proposed project will finance the activities under three main components described below
(contingencies are included into components costs).
By Component:
Project Component I - US$63.23 million
Community-based Micro-projects
The objectives of this component are to: (i) improve living conditions of the target population by
providing better quality of and access to basic social and communal services in their communities; (ii)
empower communities and vulnerable groups to make decisions and manage process and assets; (iii) create
new and innovative community-based social care services as an altemative to the residential care; (iv)
develop models for the service delivery; and (v) inform the development of social care services policy
development.
These objectives will be achieved through financing the activities under the following two
sub-components:
(i) community-based services micro-projects and (ii) targeted social-care services micro-projects. The USIF
Operational Manual details the procedures and criteria for the micro-project financing and implementation
arrangements.
Sub-component One. Community-based Services (US$ 55.71 million):
Micro-project menu and funding components. The sub-component will finance identification,
appraisal, implementation and monitoring of micro-projects selected by the communities from the agreed
menu of micro-projects eligible for financing including: (i) social services (i.e. education (pre-schools and
general education), primary health care services in villages, libraries, houses of culture, community clubs);
and (ii) communal services (i.e. potable water supply, sanitation services and sewage, access roads to and
intemal roads/streets in villages, environment improvement such as tree planting, clean up and erosion
control measures). This sub-component will finance minor civil works (mainly rehabilitation activities);
provision of minor equipment and furniture; workshops, seminars, community training and consultant
services (local short term consultants).
Civil works will be implemented by private construction companies selected by the communities on
competitive basis.
Training and consultant services provided to the target communities under micro-projects will be
aimed to develop local capacity for the micro-project identification, preparation and implementation. It is
expected that approximately 1,500 communities and Implementing Agencies (lAs) will have developed
skills in writing project proposals, project management and implementation, monitoring and supervision,
fund raising etc., and about 10,000 people in the participating communities will be trained. About 4,000
contractors will develop skills in National Competitive Bidding.
Targeting and implementation strategy. Micro-projects under this sub-component will be
implemented in all 25 oblasts of Ukraine, in two poorer rayons in each oblast. Proxy poverty indicators
agreed with the Supervisory Board will be used to identify the rayons. So in total the sub-component will
be implemented in 50 rayons. It will target communities in villages and small towns (up to 50,000
- 33 -



inhabitants). Each micro-project will be identified with participation of at least 30 % of population of the
targeted communities. Evaluation and selection of micro-project proposals to be financed will be carried
out by USIF regional units based on clear evaluation criteria described in the Operational Manual (please
refer to Annex 12 for summary criteria). To make this selection process more effective and transparent an
Regional Steering Commnittee will be established in each oblast including representatives of oblast
administration, oblast Rada and civil society, which will participate in micro-project selection and
approval. It is expected that in six years of project implementation approximately 850 community-based
micro-projects with an average cost of US$ 60,000 will be implemented. The strategy of implemientation
of this sub-component will be as follows: (i) funds available will be pre-allocated to all of 25 oblaists of the
country,  proportionally to the average population of the rayon in an individual oblast (excluding
population of big cities). The oblasts will be grouped into eight zones each covering 2-6 oblasts: (1)
Volynska, Lvivska, Temopilska, Ivano-Frankivska, Zakarpatska, Chernivetska oblasts. Zone center -
Lviv; (2) Zhitomirska, Rivnenska, Vinnitska, Khmelnitzky oblasts. Zone center - Khmelni:zky; (3)
Chemigivska, Kyivska, Sumska oblasts. Zone center - Kyiv; (4) Cherkasska, Poltavska, Kirovogradska
oblasts. Zone center - Cherkassyu; (5) Mykolaivska, Odesska oblasts. Zone center - Odessa; (6)
Dnipropetrovska, Zaporizhska oblasts. Zone center - Zaporizhzhya; (7) Donetska, Kharkivska, Luganska
oblasts. Zone center - Donetsk; (8) Khersonska oblasts, Republic Crimea. Zone center - Simferopol; (ii)
the implementation of this component will start in the 34 western and central zones of the country which
are expected to be covered with promotional activities in approximately 6 months. Special dead ines will
be set up at the beginning of the promotion campaign in each rayon, and the micro-projects proposals
which do not meet those deadlines will not be registered by the USIF; (iii) while implementations is under
way in these zones (expected to stretch over a period of up to 18 months), promotion activities will start in
the first oblast of the next zones; (iv) gradually, as pre-allocated funds are committed/disbursed, oblasts
and zones that have started work first will phase-out and new zones will phase-in covering all the oblasts
by the end of the forth year. In case total amount of funds requested in quality micro-projects prc,posals is
less than portion of funds pre-allocated for any specific oblast, the USIF SB reallocates remaining funds
to oblasts. This strategy will allow sufficient presence at the time of project activities in any given area,
with limited regional staff.
For the implementation arrangements for this sub-component please refer to the attached
organigram
(Annex 15) and description of the component 3 below.
Sub-component Two. Targeted Social Care Services (USS7.52 million):
Micro-project menu and funding components. This sub-component will finance idenrification,
appraisal, implementation and monitoring of micro-projects, initiated by local entities involved in the sphere
of social care services provision - municipalities, NGOs, CBO, specialized institutions, etc. It is envisaged
that most of micro-projects will be prepared by commlunities and Implementing Agencies in close
coordination with local government. The following types of micro-projects will be eligible for funding: (i)
day care centers including: development centers for mentally and physically disabled children and youth;
care centers for disabled and lonely elderly people; (ii) shelters for street children, homeless adults, and for
18 years old getting out of orphanages; (iii) crisis centers for youth, abused women, children belonging to
families in crisis, etc.; and (iv) foster family services for elderly disabled people, orphans, disabled and
other children from traditional institutions. This sub-component will finance minor civil works (mainly
rehabilitation of facilities), provision of minor equipment and furniture, training and consultant services
(local short term consultants), case management and monitoring and special programs. Training and
consultant activities under this sub-component will be aimed to develop capacities of implementing
agencies and social care service providers for micro-project formulation, preparation and implenientation.
- 34 -



It is expected that approximately 250 lAs will have developed skills in writing project proposals, in project
management and implementation, monitoring and supervision, fund raising etc. In addition, about 150
social care providers will be trained.
Targeting and implementation strategy. Micro-projects under this sub-component will target
mainly poor people in disadvantage situation and vulnerable population groups, such as street children,
single elderly in need of care and disabled. Under this sub-component various models of services delivery,
mechanisms of financing, implementation and monitoring of social care delivery will be developed (e.g. a
system of contracting out of social care services to private providers and NGOs) to be tested and evaluated,
and to serve as a basis for definition of government policies and introduction of innovative approaches to
social care service delivery. In six years of project implementation it is expected that approximately 120
micro-projects of this type with the average cost of US$ 60,000 will be implemented.
The sub-component will be implemented in two oblasts selected by the USIF Supervisory Board according
to the agreed criteria, as well as in the cities of Sevastopol and Kiev. The proposed criteria for oblasts
selection are as follows: (i) overall commitment of oblast authorities to reforms in the area of social care
services in the country; (ii) commitment of oblast authorities to cooperate with USIF to introduce new
approaches to the social care services delivery; and (iii) commitment of local authorities to co-finance the
social care services micro-projects. The funds for micro-project financing will be pre-allocated by the
Supervisory Board to the target regions by semi-annual portions. Promotion, preparation and approval of
MP proposals will be carried out on semi-annual basis. Regional Steering Committees will participate in
the micro-projects selection and approval.
Capacity building is a very important aspect of this component aimed at helping to develop
capacities of communities and implementing agencies for the micro-project preparation and
implementation. Throughout the micro-project cycle, communities will be provided training and TA. It is
expected that approximately 1,000 communities and lAs will have developed skills in writing project
proposals, project management and implementation, monitoring and supervision, fund raising etc. and
about 10,000 people in the participating communities will be trained. About 4,000 contractors will develop
skills in National Competitive Bidding. In addition, about 150 social care providers will be trained. This
component will finance workshops, seminars and consultant services for micro-project implementation,
including services required for micro-project design and supervision. (See Annex 14 for a detailed
description of community capacity building activities).
Monitoring of this component will be two prong
Performance Monitoring of micro-projects will be carried out through the following mechanisms
incorporated into the project design: (i) local supervisor -- the IA will hire a local supervisor (civil
engineer) to be present at the micro-project site to monitor the quality of civil work. The local supervisor
will maintained a log-book at the site which will be accessible to the public; (ii) IA -- the IA will be in
charge of monitoring of micro-project implementation by contractors and signing the payments off. The IA
will be informing the beneficiaries and public on the progress of the micro-project implementation through
local media, community meetings and information posters and sheets; (iii) beneficiaries; (iv) local
authorities; and (v) USIF Executive Office - consultants, hired by the USIF will visit micro-project sites at
least once a month and will verify progress made in micro-project implementation and report to the regional
coordinators. In addition, the regional coordinator, the USIF micro-project officers and other USIF EO
staff will randomly visit micro-project sites and monitor the progress. Performance monitoring will use the
USIF MIS, reports of IA, regional and central USIF staff, standards, norms, case management etc.
- 35 -



Impact Monitoring indicators are included in the project LogFrame (see Annex 1). For each
micro-project base-line data will be collected as part of the micro-project appraisal process and a baseline
for evaluation will be established. At the district level the baseline data will be established through tFe rapid
needs assessment and desk review. For social care services beneficiary satisfaction will be mcnitored
through special studies. For community-based micro-projects the USIF will develop few basic indicators
for each type of micro-projects, such as schools, PHC facilities, roads, water and sanitation and
environmental micro-projects and test out availability and reliability of existing information during the pilot
project. In addition, cost effectiveness analyses will be carried out. Monitoring activities will be factored
into the micro-project cost.
Project Component 2 - US$1.68 million
Capacity Building
The overall objective of this component is to support capacity strengthening to formulate,
implement, monitor and evaluate social service policy and programs on central and regional levels in order
to improve quality and access to social services for vulnerable population and poor communities. Capacity
building activities will be oriented to assist Government in social service strategy preparation and social
protection reform. The other objectives of the component are to: (i) strengthen MSLP and MOF capacity
to formulate, monitor and evaluate social services policies; (ii) improve social service financing and
contracting system; (iii) strengthen regional authorities (oblast, rayon) capacity to develop, monitor and
evaluate social service programs; and (iv) improve social service quality through professional training of
social workers in social care service MP in two pilot oblast. The objectives of this component will be
achieved through activities under the following 3 sub-components:
Sub-component One. Central Government Capacity Building
This sub-component will aim at enhancement of analytical, applied research, prograrnlpolicy
assessment, monitoring and evaluation capacity of parts of MSLP and MOF working for social services
system in the country. Exchange and introduction with relevant foreign institutional experience for
monitoring and evaluation of social service policies, development of social services quality standards and
indicators, and assessment of new models and approaches developed and supported by SIF in tho pilot
oblast will contribute to development of national social services strategy and monitoring system. Social
services financing and contracting system will be reviewed, new contracting arrangements tested in pilot
oblast and recommendations presented to the Government to improve social services legislation. F'ndings
of legal and financing reviews, assessments of new models supported by SIF and recommendations to
improve social services system will be widely disseminated through a number of national conferences and
workshops during the project life time.
Sub-component Two. Regional Government Capacity Building
This sub-component at the oblast and rayons level will address social services program
development, management, planning, implementation, supervision, monitoring and evaluation issues on
regional level. Pilot oblast and rayon social service authorities will be provided with training, technical
assistance, hardware and software for development and maintenance of social services database enriching it
with new social service indicators, and for regional social service program preparation. Relevant staff at
regional level will be provided guidance on supervision of new social service provision and with assistance
of local foreign consultants will conduct ongoing supervision during the project life time period.
Evaluation of new models of social service provision and contracting will contribute to further development
of regional social service programs. Contracting and procurement capacity development will be targeted to
- 36 -



rayon officials in charge of social care service provision. Experience gained and lessons learned in piloting
social service programming, monitoring, evaluation and contracting will be disseminated in regional
conferences in pilot oblast.
Sub-component Three. Social Services Oualitv Enhancement
Two sets of activities will be implemented under this sub-component: (i) local trainers will be
provided an extensive academic and practical training in new social work models with particular groups of
vulnerable population as well as supervision; (ii) they will prepare and provide special training programs
for up to 5 social workers from each social services MP in order to ensure quality social services. New
social service MP will be regularly supervised to ensure continuity and growths of social service quality
provided. The component will finance software and hardware, training, consultant services, studies,
dissemination workshops and conferences, study tours.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.68 million
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
The objectives of this component is to ensure efficient implementation of the SIF project in targeted
areas by using effective mechanisms of project management, proper tools of project monitoring and
evaluation , raising public awareness about project experience. These objectives will be achieved through
activities under the following three sub-components:
Sub-component One. Institutional Support to the USIF Executive Office
The institutional and implementation arrangements for the project include mechanisms and
structures on central and local levels as described in the para C4 of this document. This sub-component at
the central level will finance USIF executive office staff salaries, equipment, rental of vehicles, travel and
operating costs (i.e. office supplies, bank fees, communications costs), training and technical assistance to
support the USIF EO capacity to supervise, evaluate and learn from the implementation of micro-projects.
Training and technical assistance in the areas of communication, procurement, financial and project
management will ensure proper implementation of the project and support USIF's planning and
management capabilities. This sub-component on local level would include salaries, travel and operating
costs (i.e. office supplies, bank fees, communications costs), training and technical assistance to regional
USIF staff in order to ensure proper and timely micro-projects implementation in the regions/rayons.
Sub-component Two. Monitoring and Evaluation
The objectives of the monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) sub-component of the project are
to: (i) ensure effective and efficient USIF performance; (ii) strengthen the development impact of the
project by taking into account feedback about project performance from beneficiaries and
stakeholders; (iii) support the development of the Government reforms in social protection by
evaluating the experience of the USIF, identify and make public lessons learned in the SIF
experience.
Monitoring will be carried out at two levels: the micro-project level, and at project
level. Also, the monitoring will be carried out in two directions: (a) project performance
monitoring; (b) impact monitoring.
(a) Project Performance will be monitored through the following activities: annual
- 37 -



procurement and technical audit of at least 20 % of completed micro-projects; annual financial
audit; opinion surveys, on-going supervision and monitoring by Supervisory Board, by the state
monitoring and control agencies, World Bank and donor supervision missions. Project performance
monitoring will rely on the information gathered in the MIS, regular project reports (annual,
quarterly and special reports)
(b) Impact Monitoring will be conducted through qualitative and quantitative impact
assessments to be carried out at oblast and rayon level, including needs assessments, beneficiary
assessments etc. The studies will cover at least 20 % of completed micro-projects and covered
beneficiary annually. These will include baseline data collection and analysis at oblast, rayon and
community level (desk study of oblast, socio-economic study of selected rayons, preliminary and
final micro-project appraisal, Special baseline studies for social care services will be carried out to
collect information on baseline capacity for policy formulation, monitoring and supervision, needs
and availability (access and quality) of social care services. The component will also include impact
assessments. Social impact assessments will be undertaken every year for 20% of the completed
micro-projects. social impact assessments, special evaluation studies.
Sub-component Three. Public Information and Education
This sub-component will include activities aimed at:  building public support for
community-based social services and commnunity participation, promoting the innovative and
cost-effective approaches in social care services, establishing an effective communications
framework for successful project implementation. These goals will be achieved through well
planned public information and education campaigns (IEC), conferences, seminars for the media,
video-, audio- and printed information materials etc.
In the framework of the public information and education sub-component, USIF will also
undertake a two-stage public survey in order to assess the changes in general public perception to
the system of the social care services provision. The survey will cover the two target oblasts, where
social care services micro-projects will be implemented and. The first stage will be conducted
during the first year of the USIF Project implementation and will inter alia assess public opinion on
quality and quantity of the existing social care services, provided by the state; who are the most
needy; role of local authorities and self-govemment in social care service delivery; "third sector"
involvement in social care service provision and others. The second stage will be conducted by the
last year of USIF Project implementation and will be aimed to evaluate and analyze to what extent
the public opinion was changed as compared with the results of the first stage.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
Micro projects                                                     63.23           0.00          63.23
Capacity Building                                                   0.60           1.00            1.60
Project Management                                                  3.31           0.72            4.03
Total Baseline Cost                                                67.14           1.72           68.86
Physical Contingencies                                            0.45            0.16           0.61
Price Contingencies                                               0.00            0.12           0.12
Total Project Costs                   67.59            2.00          69.59
Front-end fee                         0.50            0.50
Total Financing Required                    67.59           2.50           70.09
Goods                                                                 5.38            0.00            5.38
Works                                                               47.84             0.00          47.84
Services                                                              9.64            0.95           10.59
Training/Studies                                                      2.94            I.05            3.99
Recurrent Expenses                                                    1.79            0.00            1.79
Total Project Costs         67.59             2.00          69.59
Front-end fee                         0.50            0.50
Total Financing Required          67.59            2.50           70.09
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 70.09 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 71.64% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 39 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
Project Costs                                                          negligible  |    lnegligible
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be expla,ined by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
Summary of benefits and costs:
Despite the difficulty to measure accurately, particularly for demand-driven projects, the estimates
of the economic and social rate of return are expected to be high due to an improved access to quality social
services of poor and vulnerable population. As part of the overall economic analysis of the project, the
economic benefits of project components can be evaluated in the following ways: (i) whether the cost of
components are lower than the benefits expected as an outcome; and (ii) whether each componerit has been
designed in a way allowing to achieve given benefit at the least cost. The following economic benefits are
expected to be obtained through the implementation of this project:
1. Improved basic health and education services in rural areas and the development of
community-based social care as an alternative to expensive residential care, and improved integration of
target population groups are expected to result in: (i) economic productivity of the population in target
communities and particularly of children through improved access and quality of education and health
services; (ii) improved quality of life of disadvantaged vulnerable groups who would otherwise be subject
to social exclusion if placed in residential institutions. Although the community based nature of the
services to be financed makes difficult the traditional ex-ante cost benefit analysis - the specific benefits
will depend on the mix of services that are ultimately selected for funding - it is expected that the project
will generate substantial benefit for the poor and vulnerable. The following decisions have been made to
maximize effectiveness of the project, relative to its cost. First, the services will be based on neecls and will
be demand driven and will deliver immediate benefits in terms of improvement in access and quality of
services. In the case of social care services, this will create the model of community-based social services
and will allow for their development as an altemative to the expensive residential care, elimirating the
demand for the development of new residential care services, thus bringing savings in the state budget. In
addition, the use of competitive procurement of the services and work is expected to generate savings in the
range of 5 - 20 percent of estimate cost for each micro-project (base don experiences and analysis of other
social funds in ECA), in comparison to the cost of comparable services that are procured without
competitive bidding.
2. The experience of other countries in ECA undertaking similar projects has been showing
demonstrable economic benefits. It is planned that cost-effectiveness analysis will be carried out based on
the results of the ongoing pilot projects and will be compared with similar public and NGO programs as
well as with the costs of residential institutional care as appropriate. The methodology outlined by Bank
- 40 -



guidelines for these types of operations will be used to carry out the analysis. The study is planned after the
first year of implementation. Based on the study and lessons learned in the pilot project the cost-benefit
criteria of community-based projects will be developed. Further cost-benefit analyses will be carried out for
each individual community-based project. Also, the study will look into the financing mechanisms of
community-based social services and proposals for further targeting of expenditure, improved quality of
expenditure, improved monitoring and evaluation of expenditure will be developed and will inform the
development of the Government strategy.
3. Empowering communities to address their social need, strengthened capacity to organize, plan
and participate in decision making and implementation of micro-project of vital community importance will
result in enhanced initiative and participation, strengthened demand for better services and accountability
and social cohesion, which is critical for furthering economic reform and social development.
4. Strengthened government capacity (at central and local level) to formulate policies, monitor and
evaluate social programs is a foundation of social protection reform. In particular, it would foster social
care service reform and the development of a better quality and more cost effective social care sector. In a
non-project scenario, it is reasonable to assume a continued provision of services by different government
institutions in an uncoordinated manner and without proper monitoring and supervision.
5. A secondary but quite important benefit of the project is expected to be the strengthening of
local entrepreneurship and the creation of temporary employment in poor and disadvantaged communities
(based on experience of SIFs in other ECA countries).
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of alternative
project designs or international standards.
- 41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
Years Ending
6
Year 1| Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4      Year5  | Year6           Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            5.9       13.4       16.2       15.9       11.4        5.1       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2         0.3        0.4        0.3       0.3        0.2        0.0
Total Project Costs           6.1       13.7       16.6       16.2       11.7        5.3       0.0
Front-end fee     0.5        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               6.6       13.7       16.6       16.2       11.7        5.3       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   5.1         9.6       11.4       11.3       8.7        4.1        0.0
Govemment                  0.9         2.0        2.7        2.4        1.5       0.5        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers*             0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.6        2.1         2.5        2.5       1.5        0.7        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      6.6       13.7       16.6        16.2      11.7        5.3        0.0
Main assumptions:
- Note: Some co-fnancing might be forthcoming, although no amount can be specified at this point in time.
- 42 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
Procurement
This is the first community-based project in Ukraine. The procurement needs are mainly
demand-driven.
General
Procurement of all works and goods under the project will follow the Procurement Guidelines
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the World Bank in January 1995, revised
in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Procurement of all services under the
project will follow the Consultants Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the World Bank in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
The procedures outlined in these Guidelines apply to all contracts financed in whole or in part from the
Bank loan. Project activities not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with procurement
rules of respective financing organizations subject to the provisions under paragraph 1.5 of the
Procurement Guidelines.
*   Table A   - summarizes the project components, their estimated costs and procurement methods
3   Table Al  - provides further details on consultant selection arrangements
-   Table B   - presents prior review thresholds and the Bank's review process
3   Table B1  - informs about the procurement capacity of the implementing agency
3   Table B2  - details packaging and estimates schedule in proposed Procurement Plan
i   Table B3  - specifies summary of findings and actions of procurement capacity assessment
The project will be financed from the proceeds of the proposed USD50.21 million USD-equivalent
loan, the local expenditure contributions from the Government and donors financing. The total cost of the
project would be USD70.09 million. A General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development
Business of the lTN on November 30, 2001 and shall be updated annually.
Procurement Management
The Ukrainian Social Investment Fund (USIF) shall have overall responsibility for procurement
management at national and local levels. USIF shall ensure the compliance with the Bank requirements of
procurement procedures, bidding documents, evaluation reports and contract samples. USIF, where
applicable, shall delegate the responsibility for procurement and contracting to the Implementing Agencies
(e.g.community-based organizations, NGOs, local communities) under selected micro-projects.
Procurement responsibilities and procedures are described in detail in USIF Operational Manual which will
be reviewed and approved by the Bank prior to negotiations. Capacity assessment of USIF has been
conducted and a report with action plan have been prepared.
Procurement Procedures
While contracting responsibility can be delegated to communities, the financial management of the
project and payments shall be carried out by the USIF. The community can formally start procurement
activities once they have received information from the regional committee that their application for
- 43 -



micro-project financing has been approved. (In practice, some preliminary actions, such as preparing
invitations to bid, identifying contractors or suppliers may begin earlier). Implementing Agency shi ll sign a
framework agreement with USIF that will specify procurement methods for works, goods and seriices with
applicable sample documentation. The method of procurement will largely depend on estimated budget
value of micro-project and number of contracts in it. The procurement procedures, specifications and
contract packaging for goods and works shall be suitably adapted as described in ProCLuIrcmclnt (3uidelines
paragraph 3.15. Procurement packaging is based on the understanding that most: of the
comrnunities will be procuring goods, works and services rather than acting as contractors and
completing works themselves. However, if communities would be willing to execute w orks by
their own forces, then in addition to applicable procedures under paragraph 3.15 of Proc irement
Guidelines the Operational Manual would specify the procedures for comupletion of vtorks by
comrnunities.
Procurement Arrangements
It is estimated that about 10,000 contracts may be generated during project implemcntation,
of which around 6,000 would be of very small value under micro-project component which constitutes
85% of total SIF project cost. Each micro-project may contain from 2 to 5 contracts. Averag,- cost of
micro-project is S60,000, varying in a range from USD 10,000 up to USDS 150,000. It is expezted that
tentative breakdown for community oriented micro-projects may represent 86% for minor works, 7% for
goods and 7% for services, and for social care micro-projects may represent 60% for minor works, 20% for
goods and 17% for services and 3% for operating costs. These estimates are tentative for the purpose
of deternining the cost of the project based on experience in other countries in the regioin. Above
ratios may change during implementation given that procurement for micro-projects is demard-driven
and will be better known when projects are identified and implemented.
Community-based micro-projects component totaling to USD 63.23 min shall consist of
*   community-based services micro-projects CBS MP in amount of    USD55.7 I million
*   social care services micro-projects SCS MP in amount of      USD 7.52 million
General nature of works, goods and services for each component is described in Operational Manual, can
be detailed during framework agreement signing and can be summarized as follow:
*   CBS MP are i' social services, such as education services in villages and small towns, primary health
care services, community centers such as libraries, culture houses, clubs, ii/ communal services, such
as potable water supply, sanitation services and sewage, access roads/streets in villages, imprmvement
of environment through tree planting, clean up and erosion control measures
*   SCS MP are i/ day care centers for disabled children, youth, lonely elderly people, shelters lor street
children, ii/ crisis centers for youth, abused women, foster family services for orphans, etc.
A Procurement Plan has been drafted by the USIF as tentative extrapolation of f.rst year
implementation planning for duration of the project. Estimated amounts are approximate and h:ave been
developed by the Consultant in collaboration with USIF based on other countries SIF experieice. The
Procurement Plan would need to be updated annually to reflect changes in procurement process which
could significantly affect the timely and successful implementation of the project. The annual Procurement
Plan should be agreed with the Bank prior to its implementation. Progress on demand-driven procurement
can be reported semi-annually in project implementation reports.
- 44 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
1. Procurement of Works
Procurement of civil works under micro-projects is estimated at subtotal of USD 6 mln
equivalent per year during 6-year-period of the project implementation.
Procurement under the project shall be mainly carried out in accordance with clause 3.15 of the
Guidelines due to major community participation under component of micro-projects.
(i) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures may be used under micro-project
component for civil works contracts estimated to cost less than USD 150,000 each. NCB
will be the method for procurement of any civil works contracts where scope of work is
essential, where competitive bidding at community level is not available and national level
bidding is required. The ECA NCB sample document "Procurement of Works" will be
used,  available  on  the   ECA   Procurement  Web   Site:
http://ecaweb:8080/html/ECACoreServ.nsf/ECADocByUnid/661 60E7DOF7DF84685256A
010061 5A3F?Opendocument
(ii) Community Participation Procurement (CPP) as other procedures of open competitive
bidding in line with paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement guidelines shall apply under
micro-projects component for small works conducted by community contractors for
amounts less than USD150,000 each, where competitive bidding at community level is
applicable. The procedures would require local advertisement and public bids opening in
line with the sample bidding documents and standard contract forms specifically developed
for community application under micro-projects. Non-government organizations, local
contractors and other community-based organizations, registered according to legislation,
will be allowed to bid. Evaluation will be done as prescribed in sample bidding documents,
evaluation report form on the lowest evaluated cost basis. Additional features of these
procedures are detailed in Operational Manual which will be reviewed and cleared by the
Bank prior to negotiations.
(iii) Shopping procedures for Small Works (SW) procedures may apply under
micro-projects component for works less than USD30,000 each awarding contracts on the
basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response
to a written invitation according to Bank guidelines and ECA Regional sample
documentation. The ECA Regional sample format for minor works "Invitation to Quote"
available on the ECA Procurement Web Site will be applied and adjusted.
(iv) Direct Contracting (DC) may be applicable in accordance with clause 3.7 of the
Procurement Guidelines. Works for less than USD 5,000 per contract for community
oriented and social care micro-projects in aggregate estimate not more than USD 50,000
may be procured directly with prior agreement from the USIF EO on each procurement
package.
2. Procurement of Goods
Procurement of goods under micro-projects is estimated at subtotal of USD 0.6 mln per year
during 6-year-period of the project implementation. Procurement of goods for USIF central/regional
offices for project needs is estimated at subtotal of USD 0.05 mln per year during 6-year-period of the
project implementation.
-45 -



Goods (estimated at USD 3,750,000 equivalent) consisting of furniture, computer and office
equipment as well as training materials and specialized equipment and supplies will be grouped to the
extent possible and considering project objectives, in package sizes that will encourage comp -titiv
bidding. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures may be used under micro-[kroject
component for the procurement of specialized equipment, computers, training books
and related teaching aids for any contract less than USD 150,000 each, where competitive
bidding at community level is not available and national level bidding is required. if`nder
these procedures the bids will be advertised nationally in newspapers of wide circulation
The ECA NCB sample document "Procurement of Goods" will be used, available on the
ECA                   Procurement                   Web                   Sites
http://ecaweb:8080/html/ECACoreServ. nsf/ECADocByUnid/66 1 6OE7DOF7D F8 4685256A
010061 5A3F?Opendocument
(ii) Community Participation Procurement (CPP) as other procedures of open .ompetiiivc
bidding in line with paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement guidelines shall apply unider
micro-projects component for small goods supplied by local suppliers for amounts less
than USD 150,000 each, where competitive bidding at community level is applicable. The
procedures would require local advertisement and public bids opening in lin- wi-,h the
sample bidding documents and standard contract forms specifically dexe&lope<  for
community application under micro-projects. Non-government organizations, local
contractors and other community-based organizations, registered according to egisiation,
will be allowed to bid. Evaluation will be done as prescribed in sample bidding documents,
evaluation report form on the lowest evaluated cost basis. Additional featurcs of these
procedures are detailed in Operational Manual which will be reviewed and cleared by the
Bank prior to negotiations.
(iii) International Shopping (IS) and/or National Shopping (NS). These procedujres will he
used for the purchase of office and computer equipment, specialized goods, etc esti-nated
to cost per contract less than USD 100,000 equivalent for IS and USD 50,000 equi.alent
for NS accordingly. The aggregate amount for shopping procedures under USIF r art is
estimated not to exceed USD 450,000 equivalent. The ECA Regional sample format for
international shopping "Invitation to Quote" available on the ECA Procurement Wetb Site
will be applied and adjusted in case of national shopping.
(iv) Direct Contracting (DC) may be applicable in accordance with clause :),.7 c the
Procurement Guidelines. Special equipment for less than USD 5,000 per contraCt fIor
community oriented and social care micro-projects in aggregate estimate not more than
USD 50,000 may be procured directly with prior agreement from the USIF [ ) or caich
procurement package.
3. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Procurement of consultants' services under micro-projects is estimated at subtotal of lS S)   lil
per year during 6-year-period of the project implementation. Procurement of consultants' serw ices in,icr
USIF capacity building and project management is estimated at subtotal of USD 0.7 mlnn pe ycrx
- 46 -



during 6-year-period of the project implementation.
Contracts for Consulting Services and training will be packaged to combine related skills and services,
in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the number of contracts
to be managed by the USIF and/or the community. The following methods of procurement will be
followed:
(i) Fixed Budget Selection (FBS) procedures will be used for services on monitoring and
evaluation costing more than $50,000 equivalent per contract but less than $100,000
equivalent per contract under USIF procurement, as well as in-countly study tours for
capacity building and in-country training for Regional Unit staff. Estimated cost per
contract is less than USD 100,000 equivalent.
(ii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for financial audits, procurement
audits and technical reviews throughout the life of the project. Estimated cost per contract
is less than USD 100,000 equivalent.
(iii) Community Participation Procurement (CPP) may be applicable for services for design
and surveys under micro-project componient costing less than $5,000 equivalent per
contract as detailed in the Operational and Procurement Manuals. Such services shall be
selected and employed under procedures: (i) calling for the participation of local
communities and/or nongovernimental organizations; or (ii) increasing the utilization of
local know-how and materials, provided they are efficient and acceptable to the Bank. The
procedures shall iilter alia require local advertisement, evaluation of the proposals and the
use of standard contract formns specifically developed for community application under
micro-projects. Nongovernmental organizations, local services' providers and other
community-based organizations, registered according to legislation, shall be allowed to
participate in the selection process.
(iv) Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures will be used for contracting services related to
community oriented and social care micro-projects, including services for design and
surveys costing more than $5,000 per contract as well as social sector training, foreign
study tours, training for contractors, impact assessment studies, public relations,
publishing design and technical advisors services estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent. Services for monitoring and evaluation costing less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured as per CQ procedures.
(v) Individual Consultants (IC) will be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines.
Individual consultants will be used, inter alia, for technical advise for micro-projects (MIS
and procurement), technical assistance related to training, and studies for both
components. Estimated cost per contract is less than USD 50,000 equivalent. Consultants
will be selected based on individual's qualifications.
(vi) Single Source (SS) procedures may be applicable in accordance with the Guidelines
clauses 3.8-3.11. Services for less than USD 5,000 per contract for community oriented
and social care micro-projects in aggregate estimated not more than USD 100,000 may be
procured directly with prior agreement from the Bank.
4.     Recurrent Operating Costs
USIF PIU staff salaries (other than salaries of government employees), training of USIF staff,
annual audits, office materials and supplies, communication and transportation, including fuel expenses
- 47 -



would be financed under the loan on a declining basis for the duration of the project. Estimate fc r USIF
project management and capacity building is USD 1.096,508. Estimate for micro-project compcnent for
social care micro-projects implementation is USD 153.492. Office rent and utilities would be provided by
the Govenmuent as contribution to overall operating expenses.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                               0.00              3.75          39.75          3.50)        47.00
(0.00)           (3.00)         (31.50)        (0.()1))    (34.50)
2. Goods                               0.00              0.15           4.68          0.4 2         5.25
(0.00)           (0.12)         (3.63)         (0. 0)       (3.75)
3. Services                            0.00              0.00           9.53          4. 54        14.07
of Consultants and Training           (0.00)            (0.00)         (9.53)         (0.00)       (9.53)
4. Operating Costs                     0.00              0.00           1.66           0.11         1. 77
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.25)         (0.0))       (1.25)
5. Front-end fee                       0.00              0.00           0.50          0.00          0.50
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.50)         (0.o0)       (0.50)
Unallocated                            0.00              0.00           0.68          0.8 1         1.50
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.68)         (0.0))       (0.68)
Total                               0.00              3.90          56.80           9.39)       70.09
(0.00)           (3.12)         (47.09)        (0.0))       (50.21)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
lncludes civil works and goods to be procured through local open competitive bidding, national shopping,
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services. and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project. and (ii) re-lending
project funds to local government units.
N.B.F. identifies local communities contributions
- 48 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
n~Mtod
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.07    1.00      3.72    0.05    1.96     6.80
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.07)  (1.00)   (3.72)  (0.05)  (0.00)   (4.84)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    4.69    2.58      7.27
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (4.69)  (0.00)   (4.69)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.07    1.00     3.72    4.74    4.54     14.07
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.07)  (1.00)   (3.72)  (4.74)  (0.00)   (9.53)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 49 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The following procurement thresholds are suggested:
USIF                      MPs  
WORKS                            N/A                  <150,000     NCB
<150,000     CPP
<30,000      SW
<5,000       DC
GOODS                            N/A                 <150,000      NCB
N/A                 <150,000     CPP
<100,000     IS           <100,000      IS (**)
<50,000      NS           <50,000       NS
N/A                 <5,000       DC
CONS. SERVICES             <100,000     FBS                 N/A
<100,000     LCS          <100,000      LCS
<100,000     CQ           <100,000      CQ
<50,000      IC           <50,000       IC
< 5,000      CPP
N/A                 < 5,000      SS
- under paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines
-contracts are likely not to exceed
* USD 50,000 for IS,
* USD 50,000 for LCS,
* USD 50,000 for CQ and
* USD 25,000 for IC.
The following thresholds are suggested for the prior review by the Bank:
*  each NCB
*  first 2 contracts for works under CPP and goods under each IS, NS
*  first 2 contracts for consultants under each LCS, SFB, CQ
*  first 5 contracts for works under SW
*  first 5 contracts for consultants under IC for MP and first 2 for USIF
*  first 5 contracts for the employment of consulting firms for MPs (under either CQ, CPP,
SS)
- 50 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                      <150,000                   NCB                      each
<150,000               other (CPP)        first 2 contracts for MPs
<30,000                   SW              first 5 contracts for MPs
<5,000                    DC
3.5 mln
2. Goods                      <150,000                   NCB                      each
<150,000               other (CPP)        first 2 contracts for MPs
<100,000                   IS             first 2 contracts for MPs
<50,000                   NS              first 2 contracts for MPs
<100,000                   IS             first 2 contracts for USIF
<50,000                   NS              first 2 contracts for USIF
<5,000                    DC
0.75 mln
3. Services                   <100,000                   FBS             first 2 contracts for USIF
<100,000                  LCS             first 2 contracts for USIF
<100,000                   CQ             first 2 contracts for USIF
<50,000                   IC             first 2 contracts for USIF
<50,000                   IC              first 5 contracts for MPs
<100,000                   CQ
<5,000                   CPP             }first 5 contracts for MPs
<5,000                    SS                    0.75 mln
4. Operating Costs                                       SOE                      N/A
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: estimated $5 mln which
is I0% of loan amount
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Tables B1, B2 and B3 below are optional and prepared in accordance with regional Procurement
Management Guidelines.
Table B1: Procurement Information Table Bl-Procurement Information-USII
- 51 -



Section 2:, Citting                                        nd Techn
reqiens
Brief statement
The USIF as a legal, non-profit entity, created by the Government resolution, shall be responsible for overall
project procurement. Legal and Procurement Unit of USIF shall co-ordinate with Regional Units all
procurement/contract management related issues under micro-project component. USIF shall conduct
procurement for its own capacity building needs. USIF has contracted many consultants undJer two Japanese
grants while preparing the project, thus, gaining certain experience in Bank procurement. USIF staff was
trained during WB procurement and disbursement workshops. Community Implementing Agencies are
planned to be trained by USIF at central and regional levels to follow local open competitive procedures.
USIF key staff is proficient in English, willing to learn, dedicated and motivated to implemen't the project.
The capacity of the UISF and its regional branches is adequate to monitor and handle the procurement
functions without external support. Consultant funded by PHRD is planned to assist in drafting model bidding
documents, evaluation report templates and sample contracts to be used under micro-projects.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country     Are the bidding documents for the
Procurement Strategy Paper status:                   procurement actions of the first year ready
by negotiations
CPAR finalized, report is submitted to Government June 1,
2001.                                                Yes E1 model/samples  No  0
- 52 -



Section 3: Training, Informationrand Development onlfrocurement-
Estimated     Estimated date of   Indicate if there is   Domestic    Domestic Preference for
date of Project  publication of  procurement subject to  Preference  Works, if applicable
Launch        General           mandatory SPN in        for Goods
Workshop      Procurement Notice  Development Business               Yes 0   No  rx
Yes O                   Yes   0
October 2001   August 1, 2001    No Ex1                  No   Ix
Retroactive financing                                                Advance-procurement
Yes 0   No  x    Explain:                                                 ,No  2I3
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
USIF at central level, assisted by Regional Units, shall have full responsibility for community procurement
documentation and contract management. Each community Implementing Agency together with signing of
framework agreement shall be provided with templates/samples and will be trained during micro-project
launch seminar on community procurement matters. Regional Unit shall closely supervise micro-project
implementation and refer to central USIF Legal and Procurement Unit in case of trouble-shooting and for
advising. USIF shall release the payment provided procurement procedures are met as detailed in
Operational Manual. Each contract under micro-project shall be prior-reviewed by USIF Regional Unit and
post-reviewed by USIF EO prior to disbursement of funds. Documentation and records shall be retained with
the Regional Units. WB shall prior review the NCB and DC/SS, if any, and first five contracts of each method
ensuring compliance and practical experience. Major of project packaging shall be post-reviewed by the WB.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing:
Project components not financed by the Bank shall be procured under respective guidelines of the co-
financiers. National legislation shall apply for procurement from the state funds in communities. Contracts
between two residents are governed by the applicable law of Ukraine.
Se-tIon 4 P            t                9i  
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project:
Name: Karina Mostipan, Procurement specialist, PAS, ECCUA. Ext: 5256x246
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
Procurement service support functions for whole portfolio. Projects covered by fiduciary procurement
functions were approved by OCSPR memorandum of January 20, 2000 for ECSPF and ECSHD projects
below mandatory RPA review thresholds. Delegation arrangements annually reviewed by RPA.
- 53 -



Table B2: Procurement Plan.
Summary of Procurement Activities, Methods and Schedules for the demand-driven project oper.tions
under micro-project component and capacity building and project management component. Estimated cost
and number of packages are approximate, may vary during life of the project and will be revieweid annuall
or as needed.
USIF_ProcPlan_Loan_Oct 25,2001
Description of Packages for Loan       Bank      Type      Number of  Estimated   Procurement
Financed Only                               packages      cost,        Method                Schedule af Key Steps
Date of       Dae of
Issurance of  Subrnission of  Date of Award
USS                      Invitations    proposals     of contracts
1.1.Civil Works Subtotal                                    34,500,000
Community Oriented & Social Care MPs         cw                    25     3,000,0001    NCB               04/02          05/02          06/02
Community Oriented & Social Care MPs         CW                   550    30,375,0001    CPP               04/02          05102          06/02
Community Oriented & Social Care MPs         CW                    40 1[     8 0,0001   SW                04/02          05/02          06/02
Community Oriented & Social Care MPs         Cw                    10        45O 000     DC               04/02          05/02          06102
1.2. Goods for MPs implementation Subtotal           _  _             3,430,345
Equipment for Community Oriented MPs         Goods                  1       120,000     NCB              09/02           10/02          11/02
Equipment for Community Oriented MPs         Goods                  4       200 000     CPP               03102          04/02          06/02
Equipment for Community Onented MPs          Goods                 20       128,979      IS               02/02          03/02          05/02
Equipment for Community Oriented MPs         Goods                480     1,958,514      NS               02/02          03/02          05/02
Special equipment for Social Care MPs        Goods                  2       100.000     CPP               03102          04/02          06/02
Special equipment for Social Care MPs        Goods                 10       153,492      IS               02102          03/02          05/02
Special equipment for Social Care MPs        Goods                 60       749 359      NS               02/02          03/02          05/02
Special equipment for CO and SC MPs          Goads                 10        20 000      DC               02/02          03/02          05/02
1.3. Consultant Services In MPs implementation
Subtotal                                             5,479,222
Services provided for Community Oriented & Social
Care MPs                                     Cons.Serv.F          150     1,483,232      CQ               02/02    _     03/02          05/02
Services provided for Community Oriented & Social
Care MPs                                     Cons.Serv.F          600     2,138,280     CPP               02/02          03/02          05/02
Services provided for Community Oriented & Social
Care MPs                                     Cons.Serv.l          100       100,000      IC               02/02          03/02          05102
Services provided for Community Oriented & Social
Care MPs                                     Cons.Serv.F           50        80,0001     SS      1        02/02          03/021         05102
Promotion Specialist                         Cons.Serv.l           60       411,600      IC               01/02          01/021         01/02
Appraisal Specialist                         Cons.Serv.l           96       796,400      IC               02/02          02/027         02/02
Supervision & Follow-up Specialist           Cons.Serv.l          100       277,760      IC               06/02          06/021         06/02
Rajon level workshops                        Cons.Serv.F          250       191,949      CQ               01/02          02/02         2/02
1.4. Operating Cost in MPs implementation
Subtotal                                              153,492
Operating Cost in Social Care MPs implementation loc1 |                            [53.4921 
2.1. Goods for Capacity Building and Project
Management Subtotal                                         319,655
Special equipment for Capacity Building      Goods                  8J      110,880      IS               04/02          05o02          06/02
Special equipment for Capacity Building     -Goods         _    _4j          49,896      NS               02/02          03/02          05/02
Goods forEO Goods                                                  31       23,364      NS               01/02          02/02          02/02
Goods for RU                                 Goods                 10|       62,093      NS               02/02          03/02          03/02
Goods for MIS                                Goads                  21       73,422      N                01/02          02102          02/02
-54 -



2.2. Oonsulting Services for Capacity Building
and Project Management Subtotal                                4,050,778
LTA for Capaciy Building                   Cons.Serv.l          60       401,537      IC              02/02          02/02         02/02
TA for a,pacty Building                   Cons.Serv.1          20       636,350       IC             02/02          03/02         03/02
Foreign Study tours for Capacity Building  Cons.Serv.F           12      108,900      CQ              02102          030           0502
In-country Study Tours                     Cons.Serv.F      several       88,828      FBS             02/02          03/02         0502
Prfesr onal training for Capacity Building  Cons.Serv.F     several       51,775      CQ
Professional training for Capacity Building  Cons.Serv.l    several       20,000       IC             02102          02102         02/02
Workshops, seminars for Capacity Building   Cons.Serv.F          40        38,318     CQ              02/02          03/02          05/02
Publishing design for Capacity Building    Cons.Serv.F           3         3,287      CQ              02/02          03/02         05/02
Head of Legal and Procurement Unit         Cons.Serv.l            6       71,346       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
LegaAdvisor - Procurement Specialist       Cons.Serv.l           6        71,348       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
Disbursement Oflicier                      Cons.Serv.1           6        71,346       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
Accountant - disbursement assistant         Cons.Serv.l           6       71 ,346      IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
Team Assistant                              Cons.Serv.l           6       71,346       IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
Promotion Special'st                       Cons.Serv.l           6        71,346       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
Public Relations, Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist Cons.Serv.l  6       71,346       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
Capacity Building & Training Coordinator   Cons.Serv.1            6       71 ,346      IC             01102          01/02          01/02
MlSman ager                                Cons.Seiv.l           6        71,346       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
MIS specialist                             Cons.Serv.1           6        71,346       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
Chief MPs implementation Department        Cons.Serv.1            6       71,346       IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
Senior Social Care Specialist              Cons.Serv.1            6       71,346       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
Social Care Specialist                     Cons.Serv.1           6        71,346       IC             01/02          01/02         01/02
SeniorTechnical Specialist                  Cons Servl            6        71,346      IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
Technical Specialist                       Cons.Serv.l            6       71,346       IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
Regional MPs Implementation Financial &
Procurement Specialist                     Cons.Serv.1          20       320,700       IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
Regional MPs Implementation Specialist     Cons.Serv.1           12      168,400       IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
RegionalSocial Care Specialist             Cons.Serv.l          12       168,400       IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
Other experts                              Cons.Serv.l          96       112,225       IC             01/02          01/02          01/02
FTA for EO                                 Cons.Serv.l           8        79,200       IC             02/02          03/02          03/02
Abroad Training & Study Tours EO           Cons.Serv.F           15       59,400      CQ              02/02          03/02          0502
Training abroad for RU staff               Cons.Serv.F           16       79,200      CQ              02/02          03102          05/02
In country training for RU staff           Cons.Serv.F          70        22,810      FBS             02/02          03/02          0502
Particpation in intemational SIF conferences,
workshops                                  Cons.Seiv.F           10       74,250      CQ              02/02          03/02          0502
USIF intemal seminars                      Cons.Serv.F          10        38,280      CQ              02/02          03/02          0502
Monitoring & Evaluation                    Cons.Serv.F           11      170,928      CQ              02/03          03103          04/05
Monitoring & Evatation                     Cons.SeFv.F      several      145,080      FBS             02/03_         03/03          04/05
Technical and Procurement reviews          Cons.Serv.F            6       95,040      LCS             02/03          03/03          04/05
Public relations                           Cons.Serv.F          16        97,680      CQ              03/02          04/02          04/02
2.3. Operating Cost for Capacity Building and
Project Management Subtotal                                  1,096,508
Operating Cost for Capacity Building and Project 
Management                                 OC               -            906,4281
Financial audits                          1Cons.Serv.F            6      190,080      LCS             020            03/03          04/05
3. Front and Fee Subtotal                                   52Z100
4. Unallocated amount                                      677,900
TOTAL COST OF BANK-FINANCED ITEMS ONLY                       50,210,000
NOTE: Procurement Plan above has replaced the version of June 2001 of Procurement Plan in line
i^ith the agreements i-eached at negotiations (table is inserted as "bitmap" paste special). For
referenice the previous version is attached.
D 1 USIF_ProcPlan_Jun2001.xls
- 55 -



Table B3: Summary of Findings and Actions on Procurement Capacity Assessment
This Table is prepared in accordance with ECA Regional Procurement Management Guidelines, it serves
as additional information.
USIFCapacityAttachment2.d
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procuremernt
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds of the IBRD loan will be disbursed in accordance with the procedures described in the Bank's
"Disbursement Handbook" The Loan of 50.21 mln is expected to be disbursed over a period of 6 years.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         AmouitfiS$fil on,-             Financing P-ercentage
Civil Works                                  34.50                          80%
Goods                                        3.75            100% of foreign expenditure; 100% of
local expenditure ex-factory) and 80% of
local expenditure for other items
procured locally
Consultant Services, Technical               9.53                          100%
Assistance and Training
Operating Costs                              1.25               100% until December 31, 2004
75% until December 31, 2005
50% until December 31, 2006, and
0% thereafter
Unallocated                                  0.68
Total Project Costs                          49.71
Front-end fee          0.50
Total                                        50.21
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed according to allocated amounts and percentages per
category of expenditure as indicated in the Table C above. Disbursements and replenishment on the basis of
SOEs would be used for all categories and preferably for all contracts. Only when requested by
suppliers/contractors, would the Bank disburse directly or issue a Special Commitment.
Disbursements on the basis of SOEs will be made for contracts valued at less than USD 150,000
in the case of works (excluding first 2 contracts procured unlder CPP and first 5 contracts procured under
SW methods) and goods (cxludin(g first 2 contracts procured tinder CPP, IS and NS methods). For
consultants services the SOE threshholds are USD 100,000 for firms (excluding first 5 contracts for the
employment of consulting firms for MPs, first 2 contracts procured under CQ, LCS and SFB methods),
and USD 50,000 for individuals (excluding first 5 contracts for the emiployment of individual consultants
for the MPs and first 2 contracts for the employment of individual consultants procured by USIF). In the
case of expenditures for training and workshops, and operating costs, disbursements will be made on the
basis of SOEs, regardless of the amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Loan, the USIF EO would
establish a Special Account (SA) in a foreign commercial bank eligible for the IBRDI The authorized
allocation for the Special Account will be USD 3,000,000. Upon effectiveness, the IBRD would deposit an
initial authorized allocation of up to USD 1,000,000 into the Special Account. Once total disbursements
- 57 -



from the Loan account have reached an aggregate amount of $2.5 million, the initial allocation may be
increased up to the authorized allocation of USD 3.0 million. Replenishment applications will be submitted
monthly and will be fully documented, including bank statements and reconciliation statements, _xcept for
expenditures which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The Special
Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the IBRD.
Project Accounts
The USIF EO will open and maintain project accounts in accordance with modalities agreed with the Bank.
Government Counterpart Contribution
The Borrower will provide its contribution on a regular basis through the Treasury system in accordance
with Ukrainian legislation.
Community Contributions Account
The USIF EO will open a special UAH account for community/local contributions in accordance with
modalities satisfactory for the IBRD.
Disbursements Mechanism
In accordance with the provisions of OP/BP 10.02, accounting, procurement, disbursement and audit are
linked for effective financial management, so that the IBRD can receive accurate and timely information on
the Project and, at the same time, reduce administrative burden and ensure better clien,t services.
Disbursements from the Loan will be made on traditional basis.
Audit Arrangements: All the accounts and financial statements of the project will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the IBRD. The audited annual project financial statements will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The audit will be comprehensive
and cover all aspects of the project and the Terms of Reference of the auditors should include both audit of
financial transaction and an assessment of the operation of the financial management system, including the
review of the intemal control mechanisms. The EO will provide the auditor with access to project-related
documents and records, and information required by the auditor for the purpose of the audit. Auditors will
be selected according to the applicable IBRD procurement rules. The results of the selection will be
approved by the USIF Supervisory Board.
Reporting Arrangements: In addition to the submission of annual audited financial statements, the EO
will produce full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) which will be used for reporting and
monitoring purposes.
Staffing
The EO Head of Financial and Administrative Department and accountants will be responsible fc r the
accounting and financial activities.
Summary of the Financial Management Assessment of the USIF EO:
A finance and administration department with a staff of two people has been established at the EO.
Staff of the EO have already received technical assistance and intensive training in financial management.
A DFID grant, supporting the pilot phase of the project, as well as the Loan provide funding for additional
training for the financial staff. A project financial management system has been established at the USIF EO
with the assistance of external consultants. The system is based on IC accounting software, which has been
used in other Bank financed projects in the Region. In addition, all project related information will be kept
on a Management Information System (MIS), that will be linked to the 1C system. The accounting system
- 58 -



will be maintained in accordance with international standards, based on principles of double-entry
bookkeeping. The Bank has informed the EO of Bank requirements on maintaining accounts and records in
accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS). This system will provide accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures, including planning, accounting and financial
reporting relating to the project. Formats for these reports have been agreed between the Bank and the
USIF.  Operational procedures and guidelines for overall project management, including financial
management are documented in an Operational and Financial Manuals, encompassing all levels of project
management and administration. The FMS system has been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank,
the FMS certificate has been issued. A time-bound plan for the further strengthening of the FMS has been
agreed with the USIF.
Disbursement arrangements under the project will be carried out based on traditional
disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the basis of SOEs
and full documentation).   The EO will maintain a Special Account in a foreign conunercial bank
acceptable to the bank for the disbursement of the Loan funds.
Internal Controls.  Operational procedures and guidelines for overall project management,
including financial management, have been documented in the Operational and Financial Manuals,
encompassing all levels of project management and administration. The Manual includes, apart from other
administrative procedures, financial management procedures and staffing, identification of accounting and
auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting and monitoring, procurement
procedures, procedures for cash management, and formats of project management reports. The EO will
prepare project information for all components and prepare quarterly reports including a financial report,
project progress report and procurement management report, for project monitoring and reporting for
submission to the Bank. The first project management report is expected to be prepared by December
2002.
Auditing Arrangements. The USIF EO will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for
providing to the Bank the project's audited financial statements within six months of the end of every fiscal
year. The accounts and financial statements of the project will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The audit will be conducted in accordance with Intemational Standards of
Accounting (ISA). The appointment of the auditor for teh first year of project implementation will be
completed within six months after Loan effectiveness and will be selected with a Request for Proposal
(RFP) providing for extension based on satisfactory performance. The cost of the audits will be covered by
the Bank loan.
- 59 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
ProjeSchedule:t-   :00 --' Planned                                               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       24
First Bank mission (identification)               10/01/1999                    [0/01/1999
Appraisal mission departure              i       04/18/2001                    04/18/2001
Negotiations                                     10/08/2001                     10/12,2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    03/01/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MLSP) and Inter-governmental Working Group comprised of
representatives of MLSP, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health., Ministry of
Education, Parliament and headed by the Minister of Labor and Social Policy.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant (Recipient Executed), USD S 150,000
PHRD Grant TF 026452, USD $266,900
Norwegian TF 039480, USD $20,000
SIDA: Social Care Services, USD $10,000
International Renaissance Foundation: Capacity Building for the USIF, USD S 17,300
DFID: Preparation and pilot, USD S1,5 mln
UNDP: SIF Mechanisms in ECA - Study Tour to Lithuania, USD $20,000
CIDA: Promotion and Facilitation Campaign in Khmelnitska Oblast, USD S20,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality                      : _       _
Galina Sotirova                    Human Development Specialist
Anush Bezhanyan                    Community Driven Development
Yelena Fadeyeva                    Operations
Vilija Kostelnickiene              Social Services Capacity Building
Gagik Khatchatryan                 SIF Implementation
Judith De Costa                    Budget
Erik Whist                         Monitoring and Evaluation
Karina Mostipan                    Procurement
Evelyn Villatoro                   Procurement
Hiran Herrat                       Financial Management
Jan Pakulski                       Public Relations
Dmitro Demach                      Public Relations
Nora Dudwick                       Needs and Capacity Assessment
Sidonie Jocktane                   Program Assistant
Lynn Sherbume-Benz                 Peer Reviewer
Laura Frigenti                     Peer Reviewer
- 60 -



Carolin Mascarell                  Peer Reviewer
Claudia Pardinas Ocana             Counsel
Nicholay Chistyakov                Disrbursement
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Chapter 1.  USIF Obiectives and Methodologv
1.1.   Introduction
1.2.    The USIF Objectives
1.2.1.  Development goal
1.2.2.  The USIF objectives are to:
1.3.    Microproject Typology
1.4.    USIF Targeting and Implementation Strategy
1.5.    Pre-allocation of Funds
1.6.    Microproject Implementation Partners
1.7.    USIF Key Operational Principles
Chapter 2.  Orzanizational Structure and Implementation Arraneements
2.1.    The USIF has the following organisational structure:
2.2.    The Supervisory Board
2.3.    The USIF Executive Office
2.4.    Oblast Steering Committee
Chapter 3.  The USIF Public Relations and Promotion Activities
3.1.    The USIF International Promotion Activities
3.1.1.  Objectives of the USIF International Promotion Strategy are to:
3.1.2.  The USIF International Promotion strategy will be implemented through the following activities:
3.1.3.  The main objectives of the USIF Public Relations Development program are to:
3.2.    The USIF Local Promotion Activities
3.2.1.  Objectives of the USIF Local Promotion Strategy are the following:
3.2.2.  Local Promotion methods and tools
3.3.    Methodology of Local (oblast, rayon) Promotion Activities
3.3.1.  Desk study of the oblast
3.3.2.  First visit to Oblast
3.3.3.  Local Promotion Team
3.3.4.  Rayon seminars
Chapter 4.  Identification and Implementation of Microproiects
4.1.   Identification of Microprojects
4.1.1.  Identification of COMPs: General Community Meeting
4.1.2.  Pre-Selection of Microproject Proposal Forns
4.2.    Microproject Preparation and Appraisal
- 62 -



4.2.1.  Preliminary Desk Appraisal
4.2.2.  Preliminary Field Appraisal
4.2.3.  Oblast Steering Committee Consideration
4.2.4.  Preliminary Community Contribution
4.2.5.  Microproject Preparation
4.2.6.  Final Field Appraisal
4.3.   Microprojects Approval
4.3.1.  Oblast Steering Committee Meeting
4.3.2.  MP Approval by the USIF Supervisory Board and the World Bank "no objection"
4.4.   MP Implementation
4.4.1.  Framework Agreement
4.4.2.  Provision of Community Contribution
4.4.3.  Contracting
4.4.4.  Microproject Execution and Follow up
4.4.5.  Microproject Hand Over and Warranty Period
4.5.   Price Units and Goods for Microproject
4.6.   USIF Training and Technical Assistance Program
4.6.1.  Implementing Agencies
4.6.2.  Monitoring and Supervision the MP by USIF
Chapter 5.    USIF Capacity Buildin2 and training activities
5.1.   The overall objective
5.2.   Capacity Building for the USIF Microproject Implementation Partners
5.2.1.  Oblast Steering Committee
5.2.2.  Training and TA to entities involved in MP preparation, implementation and management
5.2.3.  Private Contractors
5.3.   Capacity Building to reform Social Care System
5.4.   USIF Staff and local consultants Capacity Building
Chapter 6.    USIF Monitorins! and Evaluation System
6.1.   M&E of the USIF Project Components
6.1.1.  Component 1: Community-based microprojects
6.1.2.  Component 2: Capacity Building
6.1.3.  Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
6.1.4.  Reporting System
Chapter 7.    Management Informational System
7.1.   Internal Monitoring System
7.2.   The Computerised Management Information System
7.3.   USIF IT Office Environment
Chapter 8.    USIF Procurement Procedures.
8.1.   General
8.2.   Procurement methods' classification
8.3.   Procurement methods, applied by the USIF EO.
8.3.1.  Procurement of Goods
8.3.2.  Procurement of Consulting Services
- 63 -



8.4.   Microproject Implementation Procurement Procedures
8.4.1.  Procurement of Civil Works
8.4.2.  Procurement of Goods.
8.4.3.  Procurement of Consulting Services
Chapter 9.  Finance and Administration Procedures
9.1.   USIF Accounting and Disbursement
9.1.1.  USIF Accounting System
9.1.2.  USIF Bank & Treasury Accounts
9.1.3.  Microproject Payments
9.1.4.  Other Payments
9.1.5.  Time and Methods of Payment
9.2.   Reporting
9.3.   Administrative Procedures
9.3.1.  Personnel recruitment procedures
9.3.2.  Terms and conditions of the employment
9.3.3.  Staff travels policy
9.3.4.  Staff performance evaluation
9.3.5.   Office property and logistics
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I     Map microprojects regional zones
Annex 2     The Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministries of Ukraine on Establishment of the USIF
Annex 3     Attachment to the Cabinet of Ministries Regulation
Annex 4     USIF Organizational Chart
Annex 5     USIF Logical Framework
Annex 6     Microproject Cycle Flow Chart
Annex 7     Short Application Form (SAF)
Annex 8     Microproject Proposal Form (MPF)
Annex 9     Microproject Appraisal Report
Annex 9.1   Environment Checklist
Annex 10    Memorandum of Understanding between the USIF and Implementing Agency
Annex 11   Framework Agreement between USIF and Implementing Agency/ owner of the MP
reconstruction       facility
Annex 12    Standard Bidding Documents
Annex 12.1. Lump sum small assignment contract for Consultant services
Annex 12.2. Standard Contract for Works
Annex 12.3. Standard Contract for Consultants (individual)
- 64 -



Annex 12.4. Standard Contract for Consulting Firm
Annex 13    Statement of Accomplished Works Form
Annex 14    Request for Payment Form
Annex 15    Provisional Acceptance Agreement Form
Annex 16    Final Acceptance Agreement Forn
Annex 17    ToR for Local Supervisor
Annex 18    USIF Capacity Building Logical Framework
Annex 19    USIF Monitoring and Evaluation Logical Framework
Annex 20    Performance indicators
Annex 21    Impact indicators
Annex 22    Standard Contract with the Local Supervisor
Annex 23    Financial Report Forms
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Note on Options for Reducing Public Expenditures on Education and Health Care
2.     Education Concept Note (draft)
3.    Health Policy Note (draft)
4.     CAS
5.     Social Safety Net & Poverty Paper (draft)
6.     Country Procurement (draft)
7.     Assessment of Needs and Capacities
8.    Financial Management Capacity Assessment
9.    Project Implementation Plan
C. Other
1. Aide-memoires and BTORs
2. Social Services note
3. Ukraine PER
4. Human Development Sector Reform Note
5. Results on two Promotion Seminars in Khmelnytska Oblast (December 2000)
6. Result of the USIF Executive Office members, the USIF Supervisory Board and representatives of the
Government of Ukraine study tour to Lithuania (November 2000)
7. Minutes of meeting with DFID representatives (March 2001)
8. USIF Operational Manual
9. USIF Financial Manual
*Including electronic files
- 65 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
1 5-Oct-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                 GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P070693       2002 PAL                                             250.00      0.00                0.00       0.00    100.00    -150.00     0.00
P035786       2001 LVIV WATERMWV                                   24.25       0.00                0.00       0.00     24.25      0.00      0.00
P055738       2001 SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT              28.20       0.00                0.00       0.00     28.19      0.00      0.00
P055739       2000 KIEV PB ENERGY EFFIC                            18.29       0.00                0.00       0.00     17.59     -0.40      000
P049174       1998 TREASURY SYSTEMS                                 16.40      0.00                0.00       0.00     14.72     12.77      4.02
P044832       1998 KIEV DISTRICT HEAT.                            200.00       0.00                0.00      0.00     187.82     88.22     27.91
P044728       1998 ODS PHASE-OUT (GEF)                              0.00       0.00               23.20       0.00     10.14     10.90      -6.70
P044851       1997 EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                              70.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     21.82     18.77      0.00
P038820       1995 HYDROPOWER REHAB                                114.00      0.00                0.00      14.16     28.03     42.19       1.59
Total:     721.14       0.00              23.20       14.16     432.56     22.45     26.81
UKRAINE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval              Company                                 Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic       Loan    Equ :ty      Quasi    Partic
1998                     Creditanstalt Uk                        0.00       2.28       0.00       0.00       0.00      2.28        0.00      0.00
1996                     FUIB                                    0.00       5.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      5)00        0.00      0.00
2000                     MBU                                     0.00       1.78       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.A5        0.00      0.00
1994/96                  Ukraine VC Fund                         0.00       1.50       0.00       0.00       0.00      0A0         0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                 0.00     10.56        0.00       0.00       0.00       3.93       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
1998                    Creditanstalt Uk                            5.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
1996                    FUIB                                       10.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
2000                    MBU                                          5.00        0.00          0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                  20.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
- 66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UKRAINE: Social Investment Fund Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central     Low-
Ukraine      Asia  income        Development dimond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                        49.5       475     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita.lAtlas rethod. US$)                     790      2.010       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS bilflons)                       39.3       956    1t030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (561                                        -0.7       0.1       1.9     GNGrs
Labor force (%                                         -1.1       0.6       2.4      Ger           /                 Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estImate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               capita               /        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national Poverty line)   28
Urban Dopulation (% of total population)                68         67        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        68         69        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1.000 live births)                12         21        77
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)               ..                               Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)   100         90        76
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                     2          3        38            -Ukraine
Gross Primary enrollment (%of school -eqe poputation)  100        100        96
Male                                                 100        101       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               100         99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                             ..    91.3        39.4      35.3
Gross domestic InvestmentUGDP                   ..    27.5       17.4      18.6
Exoorls.of ooods and services/GOP               ..    27.6       53.7      61.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savinps/GDP                      ..    26.4       23.0      23.0
Gross national savinoslGDP                      ..    35.9       22.6      23.3
Current account balancelGDP                    ..    -5.5         4.0       4.2      Domestic      hemn
Interest oavmnents/GDP                          ..       .        1.4       1.7     savings                      Inves+ment
Total debtUGDP                                  ..       ..      35.5      35.6
Total debt servicelexDorts                     ..        ..      17.1      19.3
Present value of debUGDP                        ..       ..      32.2      32.3
Present value of debtexports                   ..        ..      72.8      56.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GOP    *u                                     -9.4     -0.2       5.8       3.5             -     Ukraine
GOP oer capita                        ..    -8.9       0.6        6.7       4.3                   Low-income group
Exports of uoods and services         ..    -3.2       -7.9      13.8       3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%6 of GOP)                                                                         45
Acriculture                                    ..    25.6        14.3      13.8      20
Industry                                       ..    44.6        37.7      38.5      D
Manufacturing                                 ..      8.5        5.0       4.6      0
Services                                       ..    29.9        48.0      47.7     450 r0
.40
Private consurnption                           ..    57.1        57.2      58.2    SDo
General qovernment consumption                  ..    16.5       19.8      18.7                     GDI    -0-GDP
Imports of aoods and services                   ..    28.7       48.2      57.0
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aariculture                                    .,    -5.8        -4.2       5.9    160
Industry                                              -11.4       3.0      10.9    x00
Manufacturinq                                 ..   -11.2        5.5       12.8
Services                                       ..   -11.3         0.3       5.5    So
D
Private consumption                            ..    -8.6         2.8       5.1      o                                   s
General qovernment consumption                  ..    -5.4      -17.6      -1.9    -5
Gross domestic investment                       ..   -20.2      -14.4      21.8                   Exports    m mports
Imports op aoods and services                   ..    -2.7      -19.1      17.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimnates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country tin bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 67 -



Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000      Infation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          1,50 T
Consumer pnrces                                 ..       ..       19.2      25.8    1.00, ;
Implicit GDP deflator                            .     1 16.4     27.4      25-3
Government flnance                                                                    500                                 1
(% of GDRP includes cutrent grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       33.8      35.6              95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                           ..      ..       -1.9      -0.g            -GDP deflator    C CP           -
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -2.0      -1.3
TRADE
(LIS$ millions)  1980  1990  1999  2000  Export and Import levels (USS mitl.)
(US$ millions)
Total exPorts (fob)                             .. .l   13,189    15,722             25DD0
Ferrous and non-precious metals               ..        ..    4,874      6,468       . 0
Mineral products                                        ,,     1,419     1,377
Manufactures                                   ..       ..     1,981     2,584     150
Total imports (cif)                             ..       ..   12,945    14,943
Food                                          ..        ..       902       908
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..    5,441      6,419      S   -    
Capital goods                                  *        *-     2,255     2,625                          O N       E
94  95  96  97  sa 99   0
Export price index (1995=100)                                      95        97
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                      ..       ..       113       115                 mExports      Gtmports
Terms of trade (1995=t100)                       ..      ..        84        84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJSS millions)                              1980     1990       1999      2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       ..   16,960    19,522       6
Imports of goods and services                    .        .    15,237    18,116
Resource balance                                ..       ..      1,723     1,406     4
Net income                                       ..      ..      -869      -942      2
Net current transfers                           ..       ..       706      1,017
Current account balance                         ..  -5,063       1,560     1,481     -9
-2
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..   -1,277    -1,083         I
Chanqes in net reserves                         ..       ..      -283      -398    _4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..       ..      1,094     1,431
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$)                 ..  1.83E-5       3.3       4.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                       ComposItlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..        -    14,019    12,579
IBRD                                          ..       .,      1,954     1,991                    G6        A9
IDA                                                                                               G:0  0
Total debt service                               ..      ..    2,994       3.914
IBRD                                                              6        4
IDA                                                                         0
C~ 2, 173
Composition of net resource flows                                                      F: 4,895
Offidial grants                                                  38
Official creditors                                              287    -1,060
Prvate creditors                                                -130      332                                    0:377
Foreign direct investment                      ..      ..       496       750
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..         0        80                             E: 2.639
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..       ..       600        18      A - IBRD                     E -Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..       422       113      8 - IDA    D- Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          ..       ..         2        24      C - IMF                      G - Shortt.trm
Net nows                                      ..       ..       420        88
Interest payments                                                94       118
Net transfers                                                   326       -29
Development Economics                                                                                                    915101
- 68 -



Additional
Annex 11
Targeting approaches
Considering the size of Ukraine and the geographic dimensions of poverty and social distress the
USIF can be successful only if its interventions are effective in: (i) intervening in areas and communities
which are most disadvantaged and poor; and (ii) within selected areas and communities, reach the groups
who are by nature more disadvantaged and at higher risks of poverty and social exclusion. The definition of
targeting approaches of the Ukraine SIF (USIF) is based on the findings of the recently carried out studies
(Ukraine: Social Safety Net and Poverty and Needs and Capacity Assessment in Khmelnitzky oblast) which
provided useful information about the poverty profile and geographic dimensions of poverty and
vulnerability.
The USIF will target (a) poor and disadvantaged communities in urban and rural areas, with a
stronger focus on rural areas; and (b) vulnerable groups, shown by the analysis to be of greater poverty
risk and risk of social exclusions, such as children in general and in particular street children, children from
dysfunctional families (the so called "social orphans" in Ukraine), physically and mentally disabled
children and adults, elderly living alone. To ensure reaching the above target population, the USIF will use
a range of targeting techniques which include: (i) geographic targeting; (ii) targeting at the micro-project
level.
(i) geographic targeting - reaching the poor areas. The analysis of household data has clearly indicated
important regional dimensions of poverty. An option considered for the USIF was to limit interventions in 1
or 2 at most of the poorest regions (oblasts), which would have allowed the implementation of a critical
mass of micro-projects to prove the effectiveness of targeting approaches, as well as have visible impact on
living standards, measurable at regional (oblast) level. However, thorough discussions with the Government
of Ukraine and other stakeholders, as well as previous project experience in Ukraine clearly indicated that
such an approach would be limiting ownership, would be difficult to accept politically, (especially in an
year of Parliamentary elections) and would jeopardize the processing of the project, delaying needed
investments and assistance to reformn. Therefore, the USIF chose to work nationwide, thus building country
wide ownership and support for the project and reform. Nationwide coverage would also allow a more
varied experience with targeting approaches and broader impact.
Poverty and social distress in Ukraine vary significantly within regions (oblasts) and imnportant
poverty pockets exist even in more affluent regions. Therefore, with the community based services
micro-projects the USIF will target 2 of the poorest rayons in each region (oblast) of Ukraine (out of an
average of 30 rayons per oblast). Concentrating in 2 rayons per oblast will also allow to implement a
critical mass of micro-projects in each rayon to have maximum visible impact. The selection of rayons and
the pre-allocation of funds will be carried out as follows:
(a) selection of ravons. All rayons within each region will be ranked based on the following
indicators:
Child mortality
Number of people at higher risks of poverty and social exclusion by category (disabled, elderly,
orphans) per 1,000 population
Share of families with 3 and more children (of total families)
- 69 -



Share of school children living more than 3 km from school (of total children)
Indicator of general ecological status
Criteria such as school enrolment, school attendance, drop-out rates, unemployment , consumption
and others have been also considered, but were rejected for the lack of reliable information on rayon level.
The methodology is being tested Khmnelnitzky oblast and could be modified, based on lessons learned.
(b) pre-allocation of funds to the 2 poorest rayons in the region will be canried out according to
the formula:
F --F   a*  pi
Fi   r'otal  25
XPk
k=1
where:
if the population of the oblast (excluding the population of big cities) is Ni, and the number of
rayons in the oblast is ni, then pi = Ni/ni is the average population of a rayon in the oblast;
Ftotal - all funds available for the purpose if this sub-component implementation;
Fi - amount of funds to be allocated to the individual oblast.
rii) targeting at the micro-project level - reaching the poor and vulnerable within targeted areas.
(a) self-targeting - targeting through the type of investments. Results of impact evaluation of
targeting techniques in LAC SIF has shown that self-targeting by the type of micro-projects has probably
been the most effective. Therefore, the USIF will be using this approach to better reach the poor and
vulnerable within selected poor rayons. The services are limited to basic communal and social services,
which are benefiting the poor and most disadvantaged equally or more than the non-poor and specific social
care services directly targeting identified vulnerable groups of the population. The project typology of the
USIF is the following:
communal and basic social services
*      Pre-school and basic general education institutions
Primary health care services
*      Conmmunity centers, libraries
Potable water supply
Sanitation and sewage
Access roads to and intemal roads in villages
social care services: The types of social care services micro-projects include, but are not limited to:
Day care centers for children at and youth at risks (social orphans, street children, child-en from
large families, youth getting out of residential institutions), single elderly, disabled (children and atdults)
*      Shelters
Crisis centers
Foster family services
(b) targeting through the micro-project evaluation. To further strengthen the effecti'veness of
-70 -



reaching the target population, micro-project evaluation will include a specific criterion - proportion of the
identified vulnerable categories of total beneficiaries (direct and indirect) of the micro-project - in the
micro-project appraisal and selection. This criterion will be included in the ranking of micro-project for
selection. (see Annex 13)
The USIF targeting techniques are being tested in the pilot region of Khmlenitzky and some
modifications could be made before Negotiations, based on the pilot experience.
- 71 -



Additional
Annex 12
Micro-project Cycle
The details of micro-project cycle are described in the USIF Operational Manual and largely reflect
the stages described below. At each stage of the micro-project cycle a relevant training/TA will be
provided to each of the participants involved (e.g. local governments, service providers, contractors etc.)
Please refer to table below for details of training/TA arrangements throughout the cycle. In addition, each
micro-project will have a sustainability plan which will provide for facility operations and rrmaintenance
after the micro-project is completed.
1. Promotion - promotion campaign will be organize by the USIF Executive Office and its regional units
with the assistance from local (self)-governments units with an objective of providing information
about USIF activities, criteria and procedure for micro-project selection to all interested parties in an
open and fair manner. Local media will be used for information dissemination purposes. Regional
seminars will be organized in each participating oblast and rayon centers at the beginning of the USIF
activities in the particular area. Community representatives, potential implementing agencies, local
governments and local contractors will be able to participate. Standard micro-project application
forms will be made available to potential implementing agencies and beneficiaries. lC'ommunity
facilitators (consultants) recruited and trained locally by the USIF will assist in promotionaLl activities.
They will be responsible for monitoring of the process of micro-project identification and v.ill provide
technical assistance to the implementing agencies in preparation of micro-projects proposals. The
promotion campaign will be organized on geographical basis - by rayons or groups of rayons. A
deadline for submission of micro-project proposals will be established for each participating rayon.
2. Identification - will be responsibility of the community and local organizations. Using the information
provided by the USIF they will define their priorities, prepare and submit to the USIF a mi.cro-project
request with a brief project description. The communities will be required to hold community meetings
or conduct local referendums for identification of micro-projects under sub-component one in order to
truly reflect priority of all community members. In the community with population less than 4,000
inhabitants the conmmunity will be required to conduct a general community meeting (GCM) with
participation at least 30% of adult community members in order for the decisions made at th.e meeting
be valid. In the community with population more than 4,000 inhabitants the community will be required
to held a meeting of representatives (MR). At least 10 % of adult community members for the
communities with population from 4,000 to 6,000 inhabitants and at least 5% of adult cormmunity
members for the communities with population more than 6,000 inhabitants should attend the meeting of
representatives in order to consider its decision valid. The GCM or MR will: (i) discuss at least three
problems proposed by initiative group and select only which is considered the most urgent priority in
the community; (ii) make a preliminary decision on size and form of the comnmunity contribution; and
(iii) select an Implementing Agency (IA) to represent community in its relationship with USIF for the
proposed micro-project. All the decisions of the GCM/MR should be made by simple majority of votes
and stated in the minutes of the GCM/MR to be presented to the USIF together with the proposal. In
the case of MR the IA should conducts a local referendum through collecting signatures of community
members on a petition for the priority problem. Results of a referendum will be considered to be valid
if at least 50% of adult community members participated in it. The problem supported by at least 50%
of the Referendum participants will be submitted to the USIF Regional Unit on behalf of the
community.
- 72 -



3. Micro-project preliminary selection and evaluation - after the deadline established for particular
rayon all the proposals registered in the USIF management infornation system (MIS) will be screened
by the EO based on agreed pre-selection criteria (please refer to Annex 13 for detail micro-project
evaluation criteria). A short list of micro-projects for appraisal will be drawn as a result of this
screening.  A site visit to all short listed proposals will be organized to carry out preliminary
evaluation, covering institutional, social, economic, financial, technical and legal issues. The proposals
will be assessed and ranked according to a set of evaluation criteria described in the Annex 13. Based
on the ranking, and subject to availability of financial resources allocated to the particular area, the
USIF regional unit in collaboration with the Regional Steering Commrittee will select a number of
micro-projects for further preparation.
4. Micro-project preparation - the lAs of selected micro-projects will be informed about this and will be
asked to further develop their micro-project proposals. Through the participatory needs assessment
needs for training and technical assistance for preparation of the technical design and specifications,
implementation and maintenance etc. will be identified. The lAs will be provided training and technical
assistance by consultants to be recruited for this purpose by the USIF (e.g. specialized institutions,
universities, consulting and designing companies, individual consultants, etc.). The lAs will be
required to obtain all necessary permits, authorizations and other documents. The lAs will submit the
fully prepared project proposal to the USIF which will be registered in the MIS.
5. Micro-project appraisal - the USIF regional unit will review all registered proposals and prepare
budget estimates using the unit cost database maintained by the USIF. The USIF appraisal consultants
will visit the micro-project site to verify all the information. Appraisal of the proposal will be finalized
in a participatory manner with the Implementing Agency, local government responsible for facility
operation and maintenance and whenever needed with the assistance of locally contracted experts.
6. Micro-project approval - all micro-project proposals duly appraised by the USIF will be ranked again
based on evaluation criteria and will be submitted for the final approval. The final ranking list will be
reviewed and discussed at the joint meeting of the USIF regional unit and RSC. A common decision of
these two sides will be made regarding approval/rejection of the proposals. The decision will be
communicated to the agencies which submitted proposals.
7. Micro-project start up - a framework agreement between the USIF EO and the Implementing Agency
will be signed upon approval of the micro-project. The agreement will define: (i) estimated cost of
micro-project and each of its components, (ii) size and form of the contributions by the USIF,
Implementing Agency, local govemment, benefiting community and other parties (if any); (iii)
responsibilities of each party; (iv) procurement methods for works, goods and services; and (v)
monitoring arrangements. Upon signing of this agreement the IA will be responsible for depositing
community cash contribution to the USIF account (specially set-up for community cash contributions).
The IA will also ensure that the in-kind contributions are in place. Upon receipt of complete amount of
community contribution the USIF and IA  will launch the micro-project with participation of
beneficiaries and all other agencies involved.
8. Micro-project implementation and supervision - based on the agreement the IA will select and
contract contractors to execute the works, supply the goods and provide services using the transparent
competitive procedure detailed in the Agreement. Whenever needed the IA will be able to recruit a civil
engineer (local supervisor) to assist with the supervision of works, verification of micro-project
progress and payments claimed by the contractors. The local supervisors will report to the lAs and the
USIF Regional Coordinator. Based on this the lAs will prepare and submit to the USIF requests for
- 73 -



payment. The request will be verified by the USIF EO staff (via supervision visit to tie site) and
payments will be made directly to the contractors.
9. Micro-project completion and hand-over - upon the completion of works a special conunittee
comprising representatives of the USIF, Implementing Agency, owner of the facility, beneficiaries,
contractors and local government will hold a meeting to sign a hand-over agreement and certify that all
contractual aspects have been respected.
10. Micro-project monitoring -- after completion of the micro-project the USIF EO will continue
monitoring the operations to ensure that the LAs and local governments adhere to the assumed
responsibilities for facility operation and maintenance. The monitoring will be particularly intensive
for targeted social care services micro-projects.
- 74 -



USIF MP CYCLE
|PROMOTION|
|   COMMUNITIES,
MP IDENTIFICATION [ t=al      CBOs/NGOs,
(SELF)-GOVERNMENTS
USIF           EVALUATION
USIF,        D |PESELECTION|
REGIONAL STEERING        Pi
COMMITTEE
K~~~    COM~MUNITY
| PRFPARATION |   al  | IMPL. AGENCY
; USIF  1[ll=) | APPRAISAL:l
USIF,    1          SELECTION,
REGIONAL     D        APPROVAL
STEERING
PROCUREMENT               COMMUNITY
CONTRACTING              IMPL. AGENCY
IMPLEMENTATION            COMMUNITY IMPL.
SUPERVISION                 AC(1;NCV
HAND OVER   |           COMMUNITY IA,
<N=- I LOCAL AUTHORITIES
-75 -



Additional
Annex 13
Micro-project Criteria
Micro-projects (MP) proposals are prepared and sent to the USIF by the community Implemented
Agencies. The proposals are to be pre-selected according to the Pre-selection Criteria described below.
These pre-selection criteria constitute a checklist of mandatory requirements, which proposals must meet in
order to be considered for appraisal and possible approval by the USIF Regional Unit and RegiDnal
Steering Committee. Pre-selected proposals will be appraised against a set of Appraisal criteria also
described below. The appraisal exercise will lead to the ranking (or weighted evaluation) of proposals. On
the basis of the appraisal report and scoring, and taking into account regional development priorities, the
USIF Regional Steering Committee and the USIF Regional Unit pre-approve the proposal.
1. Pre-selection criteria. The proposals will be first screened according to the pre-selection c iteria (i)
compliance with application forn instructions; (ii) typology; (iii) targeting;
(i) compliance with application form instructions. The micro-project proposal s.lould be
submitted on the official application form and all required documents should be attached. The cost of the
proposed MP should not exceed the maximum of $150,000.
(ii) typology. The proposals will have to be compliant with the menu of services acceFtable for
USIF funding (see Annex 11) The types of projects eligible for financing include:
(iii) targeting. Eligible proposals will have to be in targeted areas and cover targeted Eroup, of
beneficiaries, which are as follows:
(a) community and basic services in villages and small towns in rural areas
(b) social care services groups of beneficiaries are: mentally and physically disabled children and
youth, disabled, frail and single elderly; street children, homeless adults, youth getting out of oiphanages
and other residential care, abused women, children and youth.
2. Appraisal criteria. All pre-selected projects will be appraised using the Appraisal Form and Appraisal
Guidelines. The project beneficiaries will be consulted through extensive interviews and discussions with
members of the beneficiary community, community leaders, representatives of local authoriti zs, local
experts. The appraisal staff will ensure the inclusion in the consultations of the more disacl/antaged
members of the community (women, old age pensioners and others). The visit to the community and the
discussion with the community will be used to:
*   ensure that the proposed project reflects the priorities of a community comprised of various gIoups mnd
members and has full community support;
*   advise the community on advantages, disadvantages, potential terms and conditions that are rec-uirec.
*   discuss the capacity of the community for participation in the implementation and the procedures to
ensure transparent and accountable use of funds;
*   define the needs for training, capacity building and technical assistance
The Regional USIF unit (supervised by the USIF EO) is responsible for appral;ing the
micro-project proposals and preparing an appraisal report. Together with the appraisal report the unit
ranks the proposals based on a weighted evaluation. The details of the ranking system are describod in the
Operational Manual. The ranking list prepared by the Regional Unit and the corresponding .ppraisal
- 76 -



reports are sent for Regional Steering Committee consideration. Decision on the micro-project
approval/rejection is made by a joint meeting of the Regional unit with participation of representatives of
the Micro-project Department and Regional Steering Committee. The ranking is done on the basis of the
following criteria:
(i) social appraisal criteria
*   number of people who benefit directly or indirectly from the micro-project
*   coverage of groups with higher poverty risk and vulnerability (for commnunal and social services)
*   compliance with the GoU strategy in sector reforms - the services are not slashed for
downsizing/restructuring;
*   what are the social benefits of the project for the beneficiaries (direct and indirect)
*   replicability of the project (for the social acre services)
*   involvement of service users in the project proposal development (especially for social care services)
fii) technical and environmental appraisal criteria
*   technical documentation for civil works if included in the proposal
*   technical feasibility of the proposed technical solution
*   technical design of the proposal in compliance with norms and standards and assuring energy saving,
efficient space utilization and low maintenance cost
*   compliance with good standards of social care
*   quality and cost-effectiveness of the service, as compared to traditional services
*   no negative environmental impact and compliance with environmental standards
fiii) institutional and lezal appraisal criteria
*   capacity of the IA to implement the project, including capacity to develop partnerships and cooperation
arnongst stakeholders during the micro-project implementation;
*   professional competence and experience of IA;
*   details for training programs and technical assistance required
* evidence of cooperation with local authorities, of support from local governments
*   compliance with Ukrainian legislation
*   availability of all legal licenses/permits/authorizations
(iv) financin-! criteria and sustainabiitv
*   investrnent share proposed by community, local government (the minimum commnunity/local
government contribution is 10%)
*   cost-benefit ratios, is the project cost-effective?
*   what is the operational cost of the service, a general strategy for the financing of recurrent cost should
be included at the community/local budget level
- 77 -



*   a plan for financing of operating and maintenance cost with indication of sources for at least 2 years
must be included
*   monitoring and evaluation plan with clear indicators measuring social impact
*   sustainability plan, including establishment of Beneficiary Association, willingness of the conununity
members to participate in the facility maintenance etc.
- 78 -



Additional
Annex 14
Capacity Building at Community level
MP           Participants      App. # of       Training          Training           Training          Duration    App. # of     Location
Cycle                          Participants      Mode             Theme            Organization                    Trainings     and Unit
Cost
US$
Promotion      Rayon              200            workshop        Introduction of USIF's  USIF, regional   I day      50             Rayon
administration local                             objectives and       coordinator and                               center 350
govemrnment,                                     patticipation        promotion consultants
community other                                  procedure, preparation
interested, initiative                           of SAF and
groups
Identification    Initiative groups  60          workshop        Community facilitation  USIF, regional  I day       100            Rayon
with approved SAFs                               and organization, how   coordinator and                             center 100
to organize CM and    promotion consultants
how to prioritize
problems
Identification    Selected lAs    30             Participatory    How to prepare the  USIF promotion      1 day      200            Rayon
workshop       project proposal     consultants                                   center 100
Preparation    lAs with project   10             TA              Project preparation and  Appraisal consultants  2 hours    900     Micro-
proposal selected                                technical design                                                    project site
for                                                                                                                  100
Approval      lAs with final field   10          TA              Role and             Appraisal consultants 0.5 day  700            Micro-
appraisal almost                                 responsibilities of the    Procurement                              project site
approved projects                                IA during the         consultant, regional                          100
micro-project        coordinators
implementation
(Framework
Agreement,
procurement,
implementation, local
supervisor, reporting,
_monitoring etc.)
Procurement    Private Contractors  10           pre-tender      USiF procurement     IA and appraisal      I day    600            For every
conference     procedures, terms and   consultants                                 micro-
conditions of the                                                  project
c contract                                                               1oo
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 15
SIF Implementation Structure
USIF
Supervisory
Board
Representatives of:
Govemment,
Parliament
Presidency
NGOs
Intemational Agencies
Executive
Office
Executive Director
Fin.&Admin. Dept.
Communicat., Promot., Monit.&Eval. Dept.
Microproject Dept.
Regional Steering Committee
USIF__                                          _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _   _
Regional Staff                                         Representatives of:
Oblast Administration
Regional Coordinator                                          Oblast Rada
Microproject Officer
Social Care Services Specialist                                Involved Rayons
Civil Society Institutions
Microproject
Implementing Partners
Communities/Implementing Agencies
NGOs/CBOs
Social Service Providers
Contractors
80 -



Supervisory
Board
Executive Director
Finance and              Micro-projects               Communication,
Administration             Department              Promotion, Monitoring and
Department                 (6 people)              Evaluation Department
(6 people)                                              (5 people)
MIS Unit
(2 people)                   8 Regional Units               Legal and
(3 people)              Procurement Unit
(1 person)
- 81 -



Additional
Annex 16
Needs and Capacity Assessment in Region of Khmelnitzky
(summary)
Objectives of the NCA
The aim of the NCA was to provide input to the USIF on how different comrnunities and
stakeholders in selected rural and urban communities in Khmelnitzky Oblast assess their nee,2s for social
services; to assess capacity of local government and other formal and informal institutions and
organizations currently delivering essential social services; and to evaluate their capacity to implement
potential USIF micro-projects. The study was managed by an international consultant and carried out by
three Ukrainian social scientists, who conducted approximately sixty in-depth interviews and nine focus
groups in oblast and rayon centers and villages.
Living conditions in Khmelnitzky Oblast
Deepening poverty, unemployment and delayed wages and pensions have reduced the access of
people who are unemployed or on administrative leave to health care, quality education, and other social
services. Unemployment has hit everyone, but is particularly high among the disabled, who were once
employed in sheltered workshops. Today, many people work in the informal or migrate abroad to find
work. Many allegedly run small unregistered workshops where they produce clothes wvith forged
trademarks of Westem firms for sale in the market.
There is a severe rural-urban welfare gap. Even in villages where land has been privatized,
conditions are extremely poor. In many villages, farm workers have been the losers in non-transparent
privatization. Many have been pressured to rent their allotments to the managers of the restructured
collective farms for nominal in-kind payments. In addition, low, late wages has created severe cash poverty,
and most people survive thanks to their garden plots. Although salaries haven't kept pace vith prices,
urban conditions are better, due to better access to potable water, sewerage, gas, more employment
opportunities, higher wages, and better educational and health facilities. Frequent electricity cuts have
damaged expensive household appliances that few people can afford to repair or replace, and schedule of
evening power cuts means people can no longer listen to evening TV or radio broadcasts.
Problems of health care delivery and access
Respondents felt that health care officials made decisions without considering public orpnion: at the
same time, most citizens took it for granted that their opinion would not be considered. Although most
health care managers ascribed sector problems to lack of funding, practitioners and patients criticized
managers' competence "professionalism," the constant demand for informal payments, abysmally poor
conditions (in terms of equipment, supplies and cleanliness) in hospitals. Health care oFficials and
practitioners claimed that obsolete equipment made diagnosis and treatment difficult.
In rural areas, many feldshers and rnidwives are nearing pension age or have retired, and their
positions remain vacant because young people will not accept such poor pay and working conditions. Lack
of affordable or available transportation has reduced access to better supplied hospital outpatient
departments. Poor living conditions and reduced access to treatment have contributed to the alarming
spread of infectious illness, including tuberculosis. Most respondents accepted the need for a mix of private
- 82 -



and public health care, but expected government to be responsible for natal care and public health.
Government officials acknowledged that private practitioners filled a gap, but were uncertain how to work
with or regulate private providers.
Education: delivery and access
Respondents were concerned about the rising costs, even for public education, declining quality,
and reduced access. Parents are pressured to pay for school repairs, special expenses, and extra-curricular
activities. Young people feel unmotivated, and understand that if their parents cannot afford to pay for the
bribes required at every stage, including entrance to further education, they will not be able to continue
their education. Respondents noted the poor morale and disinterest of teachers in their work, largely
because salaries have become so low. Educators and ministry officials were most concerned about the
disastrous state of physical infrastructure. Educators from boarding schools focused on the immediate need
to remedy the poor conditions of dormitories and classrooms, many of which are unheated during winter.
While Kyiv students have been studying science with new textbooks for two years, local students have no
access to these textbooks and can hardly compete Kyiv applicants to medical school. Although many
educators longed for the "good old Soviet times" of financial security, they also acknowledged great scope
for individual initiative in designing courses and choosing methodologies. They accepted the idea of some
private schooling, which they thought would relieve the pressure on state budgets.
Some villages lack secondary schools, but since collective farms, which once provided transportation
for village pupils, no longer offer such services, children must either walk long distances to neighboring
villages, or drop out. Lack of electricity in rural areas mean that classrooms are dark as well as cold.
Children were forced to study at home by candlelight, and complain of eye problems. Village pupils have
considerably less chance of earning qualifications necessary to enroll in institutions of higher education.
And, since entrance to institutes of higher education is widely acknowledged to depend on bribery, rural
youth have a further disadvantage, given rural cash-poverty. Lack of cash further disadvantages rural
education, since schools are increasingly financed by parental contributions.
Social protection
Social protection staff feel hampered by excessive and complicated bureaucratic procedures,
poorly thought out rules and regulations, and legal requirements inappropriate to current conditions. In
part, they attribute these problems to the failure of state bodies to involve representatives of beneficiaries in
their work. Respondents were very dissatisfied with the amount and considerable disparity of pensions,
with rural pensioners receiving the least, and civil servants receiving the most. the greatest amount. But
even "privileged" (former miners or war veterans) often lived in extreme penury, because their pensions
supported unemployed adult children and dependent grand-children. Beneficiaries also complained about
the difficulties in applying for assistance. Applications for one-time assistance or energy subsidies required
traveling to the oblast center for documents and references. The procedure is so complicated that many
potentially eligible recipients have declined to apply. Registering for disability payments often required
bribes.
Social services remain heavily oriented toward residential care -- for children who have been
orphaned or removed from parental care or who have disabilities; the disabled; and the infirn, single
elderly. Widespread impoverishment on Ukraine's relative old and rapidly aging population has resulted in
a heavy burden for social services. Centers are poorly provided and equipped, and staff admitted they
cannot provide decent nutrition, much less medication or bedclothes. They also lack mechanical equipment
that could help staff lift or transport the bed-ridden elderly. In some cases, former prisoners of pre-pension
- 83 -



age who have been unable to find work are sometimes sent to such institutions, where they terrorize the
elderly inhabitants. Rayons also offer outreach services, which are greatly appreciated by their
beneficiaries, and most village councils employ home helps to look after 12-18 people. Since scocial workers
are not provided with transportation, if they cannot provide sufficient assistance to the elderly in their
homes, the elderly enter nursing homes.
Emergence of new vulnerable groups
Educators spoke of increased numbers of dysfunctional (often alcoholic) families is growing,
resulting in increased removal of children from parental care. Staff were concerned that despite poor
conditions in such facilities, children nevertheless become accustomed to receiving everything from the
state, which left them unequipped for independent living after they leave. In isolated rural areas, youth are
also at risk. Respondents noted increased drug addiction and the spread of HIV among them. Few NGOs
focus on youth, and young people are cynical about their prospects for the future. Disabled zhildren and
youth face severe disadvantages if they cannot obtain a good education (which most felt involved computer
skills). The disabled fully understand that will be hired only if their qualifications are significantly greater
than those of their non-disabled competitors.
Although some categories of disabled receive high pensions, lack of rehabilitation services and
social isolation are serious issues. No special transport is available for the disabled, nor are public facilities
"handicapped accessible/ A sub-group of disabled consist of people with mental illness, traditionally
confined to residential institutions, and provided with undemanding jobs as agricultural or production line
workers in sheltered work situations. Many are still confined in under-funded facilities in extreme social
isolation.
Domestic violence and abuse of women is reportedly rising, yet there are no emergency centers for
battered women in most districts, and interviewed social service workers and officials had never heard of
such centers. Nor is preventative work being carried out on trafficking of women, a growing problem
throughout Ukraine. Rising numbers of pregnant women suffer from anemia. Despite some farrnily planning
programs, the number of newborns abandoned in hospitals is slowly rising.
How communities and stakeholders prioritize their needs
Money for capital repair, maintenance of building structures, heating systems, toilet facilities, and
dormitories; and new apparatus, including modem  diagnostic and treatment equipment for hospitals;
laboratory equipment, computers and library books for schools; and specially equipped vans for the
disabled. Respondents stressed the importance of having a more consistent and reliable electric power
supply.
* A more enabling regulatory environment, such as tax and customs laws that encouragz charitable
contributions; streamlined procedures for applying for assistance.
*  Better information about rights, entitlements, and availability of various kinds of social ser. ices.
* Training for government officials as well as non-governmental activists on fund raising, writing grants,
searching for donors, and establishing relationships with foreign sponsors.
* For medical practitioners, further training, including training by foreign donors such as; the TACIS
training of residential treatment staff .
- 84 -



* For residential centers for children, the disabled, recovering drug addicts, and others, psychologists are
needed to work with staff and patients, and provide training to staff.
* Training programs to help disabled children to enter the labor market.
* Respondents would like better post-rehabilitation assistance - including provision of temporary living
accommodations; practical training courses in skills demanded by the labor market, and specific help in
finding work -- to recovering addicts, to help them reintegrate into society.
* Establishment of a network of regional multi-branch medical centers, combining regional with district
or municipal centers, to improve the quality of care by making best use of limited funds for personnel and
modem diagnostic and other equipment in a regional center.
* A more holistic approach to treating the range of children's physical and psychological disabilities,
rather than single disabilities, as exist at present.
Assessing local capacities
Throughout Khmelnitzky Oblast, providers of social services have been forced into a desperate
search for ways to means to supplement rapidly dwindling local budgets and escalating needs. Most are
using a variety of tactics, adapting Soviet era practices (finding enterprise sponsors and enforcing
"volunteer labor"). This chapter describes how respondents themselves assess their own institutional
constraints, and how they go about finding resources and adapting to new demands.
Blurring of responsibilities between levels of government
Considerable confusion exists between different levels of govenmment, particularly conceming
issues ofjurisdiction and funding, in part because many old regulations still in effect and conflict with more
recent laws. Khmelnitzky rayon, for example, lacks an administrative center. Although the large city of
Khmelnitzky is located in the rayon, it is under direct oblast jurisdiction. The result has been that city
officials tend to allocate funding, and attract corporate patrons, to benefit the city and the oblast, while
neglecting the needs of the rayon as a whole. Officials also noted the excessive duplication of government
bodies, with oblast, rayon and village councils creating executive committees whose responsibilities
overlapped, and the prevailing habit of making empty decrees without a realistic plan or available funding.
While some respondents praised the "old guard," because their extensive connections with people in
different positions of power allow them to get things done, this highly personalized approach to goveming
limits the capacity for innovation and inhibits broader citizen engagement. Officials are severely hindered
by small budgets. Cities depend on income taxes, but Whatever the relationship of local government to
social services, they are severely hindered by lack of revenues. At present, budgets are heavily "subsidized"
by humanitarian contributions, from enterprises, restructured collective farms, and corporations.
Social services: survival strategies
Attempts to reform or improve the health care system have been ad hoc, dependent on the
initiative and ability of individuals to find funds or introduce change. In the field of health, the chief
medical officer of a hospital looks for ways to interest local authorities in health care, and to create a
"medical lobby" in the rayon council of deputies; indeed, his position involves more public relations than
administration. All chief physicians of the town and region also serve as deputies to their local and oblast
- 85 -



councils (radas), a fact which creates more opportunities and facilitates the procedure for establishing
necessary contacts, and makes it possible to lobby for their own establishments. Medical staff, and
sometimes patients, support hospitals and clinics by working on subsidiary farms. Some hospitals survive
largely on assistance from intemational donors and local enterprises.
Many schools have worked out arrangements with nearby agricultural enterprises, -^rom which
directors solicit funds and in-kind assistance to help with repairs or supply canteens. In some cases, such
exchanges involve trading the labor of the older school children for in-kind, usually food assistance Routine
repairs of buildings and equipment, as far as this is possible, is carried out in all establishments, without
exception, by employees, parents and children. Schools in good conditions have been able to rent out part
of their premises.
The organization of the non-governmental sector
Despite the 200 registered NGOs in the oblast, many respondents felt that most had been created
to satisfy individual ambitions. The most successful are the successors to the Soviet era state-sponsored
and funded organizations such as Union of Veterans of the Great Patriotic War, Union of the Disabled,
Council of Women, and the Red Cross. Most simply distributed humanitarian assistance, although a few to
be moving in the direction of provide mutual assistance and service to members. Many respondents feel
NGOs guarded rather than shared this information. Because few NGOs strove to disseminate such
information, stimulate public discussion about social issues, or lobby for improved legislation, few people
see NGOs are connected to them or representing their interests in any way.
Numerous religious communities representing half a dozen faiths play an active social role,
working with local government to organize free kitchens for the homeless and poor families with children;
help hospitals purchase medicine and food; and help orphans. Local Ukrainian Orthodox churches,
however, were criticized for their passivity, level of church activism differs regionally, allegedly being
greater neighboring Ternopil oblast than in northem parts of Ukraine.
Enterprise sponsorship, or "sheftsvo, " continues to play a role, but the search for spoilsors is now
characterized by great secrecy. Organizations don't wish to share their sponsors, given dwindling
resources, and sponsors want to avoid a horde of supplicants and the attention of "rackets" and tax
authorities. Tax and customs legislation reportedly proves a large obstacle in the search for "patrons" or in
receiving humanitarian shipments from abroad.
Recommendations
* USIF needs to analyze local NGOs, their pattem of leadership, fund raising methods, and relation to
members in the districts where it functions. The NGOs it accepts applications from, or which undertake to
deliver services as part of a micro-project, will greatly benefit from serious assistance in organizing and
delivering services more effectively, and expanding their fund raising activities.
* Individuals and organizations have serious difficulties obtaining information, whether about availability
of grants and funding, training opportunities, exposure to new ways of doing things, rights and
entitlements, or relevant legislation. The USIF can help by widely disseminating information about this
project and requiring participants do the same; or soliciting micro-projects that directly address issues of
information dissemination.
- 86 -



* The World Bank, through the USIF, could help local counterparts better coordinate with donors,
bilateral agencies, charities, and churches. Despite fierce competition for financing and consequent desire to
hoard information, it would ultimately benefit of social service organizations to explore ways to
collaborate and share  resources.
* Many local respondents consider current tax regulations a serious hindrance to the development of
philanthropy. Although USIF cannot directly address this issue, it can, through capacity building with
NGOs, help them rethink and broaden their mandate to include that actively representing members' interests
in political fora and lobby for legislative change.
* By encouraging outreach rather than reconstruction and strengthening of residential facilities, the USIF
could encourage rethinking current preferences for institutionalization.
* By encouraging local government to more systematically share information, particularly about budgets
and decision-making processes, and involving local NGOs or CBOs to monitor USIF-sponsored
micro-projects, USIF can deepen citizen engagement, good governance, and increase trust between citizens
and government.
- 87 -



oo
OD



MAP SECTION






200                        UKRAINE  2503                                                                                          35                                         400
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT                                                                                      FERUSSIANT                                    ZONE HEADQUARTERS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ZONES                                                    \                               RNON
BELARUS                                                                                      ROD
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Mcil                                                                                       -    1        RAILROADS
o     SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
POLAND                             t                                                                                                              (-  J ) X  X   /  \    >   f  t  @  NATIONAL CAPITAL
herni iv              TO Mo~~~-  -- -AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC OR
OBlAST BOUNDARIES
To W                                                                                                                                    -     -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.,
250'           To Krncm,'    /
SLOVAK                                                                                                 erk *   TrRapno
' uzhh~-csd  Fankush                                                                                                                                           GIsnynvk
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit al The World Bank  MLDOAc.  ORob 
The baundaries, colors, denaminatians and anyother informatian shawn  MOLDOVA                     ) T<                         4         5 |d  
judgment onthe legal status ofany terrdary or any endorsement or  0 N rGsit%|>_                                           f 1         L lh          o 
/  LATVIA }.                                      )           {        ,    tL dvirno  Un,-a_-.  .                                                                          ans
acceptance of such hau,tdoriese.Tenc
LITHUANIA- f   N~\        i Sayf@
POLAND (v >  40<5lkw  bia/ oKndr4
W-                     UKRAINE                                                                                                 .                        . .t
o ROMAROMA )
o tEismap do no impl B,LACK    SEA - : Worl Ban Gu  a                                                                                       Ka
_~          BULGARIA    -        a
BELARUS                       RIA      BUGAI



