Page  1
February 16,  2001
Mr. Vasyl  Rohovy
Minister of Economy
Ministry of Economy
Kyiv
Ukraine
Re:
Japanese Grant for Preparation of Social Investment Fund Project 
Grant No. TF 026452
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred sixty 
six thousand and nine hundred United States dollars (US$266,900) (the Grant) to  
Ukraine (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Framework Grant Agreement between Ukraine and the Bank, dated January 14, 1998, and in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, which forms an integral part of this Letter 
Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is 
authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said 
terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Luca Barbone
Country Director
Ukraine & Belarus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
UKRAINE
By /s/ Vasyl Rohovy
Authorized Representative
Date:  March 13, 2001
Annex to the Letter Agreement 
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient, through the Ukraine Social 
Investment Fund Executive Office, in the preparation of the Social Investment Fund 
Project, which has as main objectives: i) to improve quality of delivery of 
community-based basic social and economic services for poorer segments of population 
and vulnerable groups, and ii) the development of community solidarity sense through 
encouragement of community initiatives and strengthening their decision making, 
Page  2
organizational and managerial capacities (the Project).  The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) Provision of technical advisory services to develop selection and evaluation 
criteria for the community-based sub-projects,  development of some alternative models 
of community-based services to be further expanded/replicated in the project main 
phase, and preparation of a an Operational Manual, which is estimated to cost 
US$86,700 equivalent;
(b) Provision of technical advisory services to train local community 
facilitators in participatory rapid appraisal and community facilitation techniques, 
which is estimated to cost US$85,400  equivalent; and
(c) Provision of technical advisory services to develop procurement and 
financial management tools/mechanisms appropriate for the community-based projects in 
Ukraine, including acquisition of  equipment, which is estimated to cost US$94,800 
equivalent.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall,  through the Ukraine Social Investment Fund, (a) carry out, 
the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the 
Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of Ukraine for 
purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon 
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
 Amount of the
   % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
   (in US$)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
   253,400
100%
(2)
Goods
    13,500
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
TOTAL
   266,900
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Letter 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $26,690, may 
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
October 15, 2000; or (ii) after October 23, 2001 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, except 
in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected 
date of Bank approval of financing for the Project, and except that withdrawals may be 
made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date and received by the Bank 
within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of Grant 
remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be cancelled. 
5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, (c) goods costing less than US$ 5,000 
equivalent; and (d) training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
6.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
Page  3
maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
7.
Accounts and Audits
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each of its fiscal years audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
8.
Suspension and Cancellation
8.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the Recipient has 
failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified.
8.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 8.1. above; (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities, (c) if the Bank has decided, 
at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the 
Project; or (d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance 
in financing the Project.
9.
Procurement
9.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and consultants’ 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed under the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment II to this 
Annex.
Attachment I to the Annex to the 
Letter Agreement
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
Page  4
paragraph 3 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$50,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Page  5
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Attachment II to the Annex to the 
Letter Agreement
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Consultant's Qualification
Services for activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex estimated to cost less 
than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provision of paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
Page  6
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word "bids", in such 
paragraph 4, shall be read as "quotations".
