Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4642-UA
Loan Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
betweenn
UKRAINE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 21, 2001
LOAN NUMBER  4642-UA
LOAN AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 2001, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Ukrainian Social Investment Fund (USIF) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to USIF, as 
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the USIF (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between MLSP (as 
hereinafter defined in paragraph (h) below) and USIF pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules to the Agency Agreement;
(b)
"Beneficiary”" means any community, organization or agency eligible for 
assistance under the Project;
(c)
"Community”" means a group of people living within a small territory, who have 
common social problems and get organized for addressing these problems;
(d)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in 
each calendar year;
(e)
“IA” or “Implementing Agency” means any entity, local state administration or a 
body of local self-government, nongovernmental organization or community-based organization, 
authorized by the Beneficiaries to represent and work on their behalf for the purposes of the 
implementation of the Micro-project (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (f) below);
Page  3
(f)
"Micro-project”" means a set of activities to be carried out by an Implementing 
agency in utilization of the grant made available to a Beneficiary in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (k) below);
(g)
“MIS” means the Management Information System, including software, 
established by the Borrower to provide current data on the Project monitoring and 
implementation progress;
(h)
“MLSP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social Policy responsible 
to act on behalf of the Borrower in all matters related to guidance in Project implementation;
(i)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(j)
“
Oblast
 Steering Committee” means the committee to be organized in every 
participating 
oblast
,
and will involve one (1) representative from the 
oblast
 state administration, 
the 
oblast
 council, 
oblast
 academia, and two (2) representatives from local nongovernmental 
organizations;
(k)
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, approved by 
the Supervisory Board of USIF on October 25, 2001, setting forth implementation rules and 
procedures for the Project, including selection criteria for the Micro-projects, fund pre-allocation 
methodologies, accounting and financial management and procurement procedures, and rules for 
the functioning of the USIF Executive Office;
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the USIF of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of  this 
Agreement;
(o)
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into among 
the Borrower, MLSP and USIF pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
(p)
“USIF Regulation” means the Regulation No. 740 of the Borrower’s Council of 
Ministers, dated April 28, 2000, establishing USIF;
(q)
“USIF Executive Office” and “EO” mean the unit responsible for the Project 
implementation, headed by an Executive Director; and
(r)
“"USIF Supervisory Board”" and “SB” mean the Board established by the 
Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, dated May 12, 2000, (No. 234-p) as the 
highest governing body of the USIF, headed by the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine and 
Page  4
composed of representatives of the Government of Ukraine, Parliament of Ukraine (
Verkhovna 
Rada
), Office of the President of Ukraine, national trade unions, non-governmental organizations 
and international donor organizations, and responsible for social sectors and humanitarian issues.
Section 1.03.
Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to USIF.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty million two hundred ten 
thousand Dollars ($50,210,000).
Section 2.02.
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
separate special deposit account in a foreign commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06.
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Page  5
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower  notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07.
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, shall, through MLSP: (i) cause USIF to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the USIF therein set forth; (ii) take 
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable USIF to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take 
Page  6
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower, acting through MOF, shall, through MLSP, make the proceeds of 
the Loan available to USIF on a grant basis under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through MOF and MLSP, and USIF, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
For the purposes of assuring the clear definition of the respective rights and 
obligations of MLSP and USIF in Project implementation, the Borrower, through MLSP, shall 
conclude with USIF an Agency Agreement setting forth the respective rights and obligations of 
the parties thereto in the implementation of the Project, all under terms and conditions which 
foster the progress in the achievement of the objectives of the Project and which shall have been 
approved by the Bank.
(d)
The Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof; and 
(ii) through MLSP, exercise its rights under the Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Agency 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
Section 3.04.
The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by USIF pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05.
The Borrower shall:
(i)
no later than March 31 and September 30 of each year, furnish to the 
Bank, a 
report on the progress of the Project;
(ii)
once every two (2) years, carry out a procurement and technical review 
Page  7
of 
twenty percent (20%) of the Micro-projects that have been 
completed, and no 
later than six (6) months after the end of the 
corresponding Fiscal Year, furnish a 
report of such review to the 
Bank;
(iii)
annually carry out a Beneficiary impact assessment, and no later than six 
(6) 
months after the end of each Fiscal Year, furnish a report of 
such review to the 
Bank;
(iv)
maintain, until the completion of the Project, the USIF Executive Office, 
with 
resources, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(v)
maintain, until the completion of the Project, the USIF Supervisory 
Board under 
terms of reference and with composition agreed with the 
Bank; and
(vi)
maintain, until the completion of the Project, the Capacity Building 
Coordinator in 
the MLSP under terms of reference agreed with the 
Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal 
Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
Page  8
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
USIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that USIF will be 
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The USIF Regulation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of USIF to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  any grant 
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, 
or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
Page  9
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
(c)
The event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, 
through MOF and MLSP, and USIF; and
(b)
the Borrower shall have made available counterpart funds adequate for the first 
year of Project implementation.
Section 6.02.
The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)  
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or executed by USIF, and is 
legally binding upon USIF in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or executed by the 
Borrower, through MOF and MLSP, and USIF, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
USIF in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03.
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of      Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  10
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv, 01008
Ukraine
Telex:
Facsimile:
131450
(380-44) 293 6256
(380-44) 219 3477
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UKRAINE
By
/s/  Konstantin Ivanovych Gryschenko
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/  Luca Barbone
Director
Ukraine and Belarus
Page  11
 Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
34,500,00
80%
(2)
Goods
3,750,000
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 
80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ Services
9,530,000
100%
and Training (including, 
inter alia
, services for 
Micro-project 
preparation and 
technical design,
technical supervision 
and monitoring, and 
workshops)
(4)
Operating Costs
1,250,000
100%100% until December 31, 2004;  
thereafter, 
……75, ….% %until December 31, 
2005; 
thereafter,
50%  
                                                                             until December 31l…..,  2006; 
and and  0% thereafter  
(55)
Fee
 502,100
Amount due under Section 2.04 
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
677,900
TOTAL
50,210,000
Page  12
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means incremental expenditures incurred on account 
of Project implementation, management and monitoring including communication expenses, staff 
travel and associated subsistence allowances, salaries for incremental contractual staff, office 
rental, office supplies and maintenance, fuel and maintenance for vehicles and equipment, and 
audits, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in paragraphs 2 (a) (ii) and 2 (b) (i) of Part 
C
of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (ii) works, under contracts costing less 
than $150,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in paragraphs 2 (a) (ii) and 2 (b) (ii) 
of Part C of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (iii) services of consulting firms, 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in 
paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of Part C of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (iv) 
services of individual consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, 
excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Part C of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement; and       (v) training, workshop and operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) improve living conditions 
of poor and vulnerable groups of the population in targeted communities;     (ii) empower 
communities and vulnerable groups to address local social needs; and     (iii) facilitate the reform 
of social protection by creating models of targeting and service provision.  These objectives will 
be achieved through: (i) the development of innovative, quality and cost-effective social and 
communal services; (ii) the strengthening of the sense of solidarity of communities and 
vulnerable groups; (iii) the building of decision-making, organizational and managerial capacities 
of communities, nongovernmental organizations and local government; and (iv) the strengthening 
of the policy formulation, monitoring and management capabilities of central and local 
government in the area of social care services financing and delivery.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Community-based Micro-projects
Page  13
1.
Carrying out of Community-based Micro-projects, including identification, appraisal, 
implementation and monitoring of such Micro-projects selected by the Communities in the areas 
of: (i) social services (pre-schools and general education, primary health care services in villages, 
libraries, houses of culture, community clubs); and (ii) communal services (potable water supply, 
sanitation services and sewerage, access roads and internal rural roads, and environment 
improvement such as tree planting, clean up and erosion control measures). 
2.
Carrying out of identification, appraisal, implementation and monitoring of targeted 
social-care services Micro-projects,  initiated by local entities, municipalities, non-governmental 
organizations, Community-based organizations, involved in social care services provision, 
prepared by Communities and IAs, including 
inter alia
:
(i) day care centers, development centers 
for mentally and physically disabled children and youth, care centers for disabled and elderly 
people; (ii) shelters for street children, homeless adults, and for eighteen-year-old getting out of 
orphanages; (iii) crisis centers for youth, abused women, and children; and (iv) foster family 
services for elderly disabled people, orphans, disabled and other children from traditional 
institutions. 
3.
Provision of technical advisory services and training to communities and IAs in the field 
of drafting project proposals, project management and implementation, monitoring and 
supervision, and fund raising techniques. 
Part B
: Capacity Building
Strengthening capacity to formulate, implement, monitor and evaluate social service 
policy and programs on central and regional levels  to improve quality and access to social care 
services for vulnerable population and poor Communities, including:
(i)
enhancement of analytical, applied research, program and policy assessment, 
monitoring and evaluation capacity of MSLP and MOF, exchange programs with foreign 
institutions in monitoring and evaluation of social service policies, development of social 
services quality standards and indicators, and assessment of new models and approaches 
developed and supported by the Project in two 
oblasts
 to contribute to development of national 
social services strategy and monitoring system;
(ii)
provision of training and technical advisory services in the carrying out of social 
services program development, management, planning, implementation, supervision, monitoring 
and valuation issues at regional level, and hardware and software for development and 
maintenance of social services database to 
oblasts
 and rayon social service authorities; and
(iii)
provision of software and hardware, training, technical advisory services, 
studies, organization of dissemination workshops and conferences, study tours, and organization 
of an extensive academic and practical training in new social work models with particular groups 
of population, and special training programs for up to 5 social workers from each social services.  
Part C
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision, through USIF Executive Office, of technical advisory services, equipment and 
Page  14
logistical assistance to facilitate the implementation of the Project, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project performance, carrying out of annual audits, and establishment and maintenance of 
MIS software.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
July 15, 2007
1,210,000
January 15, 2008
1,235,000
July 15, 2008
1,265,000
January 15, 2009
1,290,000
July 15, 2009
1,320,000
January 15, 2010
1,345.000
July 15, 2010
1,375,000
January 15, 2011
1,405,000
July 15, 2011
1,435,000
January 15, 2012
1,465,000
July 15, 2012
1,495,000
January 15, 2013
1,530,000
July 15, 2013
1,560,000
January 15, 2014
1,595,000
July 15, 2014
1,630,000
January 15, 2015
1,665,000
July 15, 2015
1,700,000
January 15, 2016
1,735,000
July 15, 2016
1,770,000
January 15, 2017
1,810,000
July 15, 2017
1,850,000
January 15, 2018
1,890,000
July 15, 2018
1,930,000
January 15, 2019
1,970,000
July 15, 2019
2,015,000
January 15, 2020
2,055,000
July 15, 2020
2,100,000
January 15, 2021
2,145,000
July 15, 2021
2,190,000
January 15, 2022
2,230,000
_____________________
Page  15
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $3,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3
(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the  Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
Page  16
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the   
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Page  17
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
