Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4642-UA
Project Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UKRAINIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Dated December 21, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4642-UA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21 , 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and UKRAINIAN SOCIAL 
Page  2
INVESTMENT FUND
(USIF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between UKRAINE (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal 
to fifty million two hundred ten thousand dollars ($50,210,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that USIF agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, MLSP 
and USIF, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to USIF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS USIF, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.
(a)  USIF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
management and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and USIF shall otherwise agree, USIF shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.
USIF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement. 
Page  3
Section 2.04.
USIF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement and Agency Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, USIF shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or the Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05.
(a) USIF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank 
with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement and the Agency Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
USIF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the 
performance by USIF of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Grant Agreement 
and the Agency Agreement.
Section 2.06.
USIF shall, no later than November 30 of each year, prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, an annual project implementation plan for the following year. 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of USIF
Section 3.01.
USIF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial and management practices, under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.
USIF shall at all times operate and maintain its property and equipment, 
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound economic, commercial, financial, management and technical practices.
Section 3.03.
USIF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a) USIF shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project.
(b)
USIF shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
Page  4
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02.
(a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, USIF shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system for the Project in order to enable USIF, no 
later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, USIF shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of USIF thereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify USIF thereof.
Section 5.03.
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. Deliveries made by facsimile shall also be confirmed by mail.  The 
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For USIF:
77 Lukyanivska Str.
Kyiv, 04071
Ukraine
Facsimile:
Page  6
(380-44) 417 1057
Section 6.02.
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of USIF may be taken or executed 
by its Executive Director or such other person or persons as the Executive Director shall 
designate in writing, and USIF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03.
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/  Luca Barbone
Director
 Ukraine and Belarus
Europe and Central Asia
UKRAINIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
By
/s/  Nataliya Yasko
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
: Procurement Procedures
Page  7
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works and goods under Part A of the Project which are not available at the community 
level and estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
(i) Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (ii) goods under Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures with at least 
three quotations from two different countries in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
(i) Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (ii) goods under Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works and goods under Part A of the Project costing less than $150,000 equivalent per 
contract, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines 
and procedures acceptable to the Bank.  The procedures shall require, 
inter alia
,
local 
advertisement and public bids opening in line with the sample bidding documents and standard 
contract forms specifically developed for community-based Micro-projects.  Nongovernmental 
organizations, local contractors and other community-based organizations, registered according 
to the Borrower’s legislation, shall be allowed to bid.  Evaluation will be done as prescribed in 
such sample bidding documents and the evaluation report form on the lowest evaluated cost 
basis.  The USIF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to enable it to register and 
monitor in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual the financial, technical and 
procurement aspects of these procedures. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers 
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully.
6.
Direct Contracting
Page  8
Works and goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000 may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of this Section I; and (ii) the first two (2) 
contracts for works and the first two (2) contracts for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in paragraph 4 of Part B of this Section I, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two (2) contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with each of the procedures referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part B of this Section 
I; and (ii) the first five (5) contracts for works to be procured in accordance with the procedure 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Part B of this Section I, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor and execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.  Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
Page  9
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section II.
Part B
: Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for financial audits, procurement audits and technical reviews under Parts B and 
C
of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultants Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services related to: (i) community-based and social care Micro-projects under Part A of 
the Project, including services for design and surveys under Part A of the Project costing more 
than $5,000 per contract; and (ii) social sector training, foreign study tours and training, training 
for contractors, impact assessment studies, public relations and publishing design, all of them 
under Parts B and C of the Project and estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, related technical advisory services under Parts A, B, and C of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and services for monitoring and evaluation 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks estimated to cost less that $50,000 equivalent per contract, that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5. 3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for community-based and social care Micro-projects under Part A of the 
Project, excluding services for design and surveys, estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Selection under a Fixed-Budget
Services for monitoring and evaluation under Parts B and C of the Project estimated to 
cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract but less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
and in-country study tours and in-country training for regional unit staff under Parts B and C of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
6.
Community Participation
Page  10
Services for design and surveys under Part A of the Project costing less than $5,000 per 
contract, shall be selected and employed under procedures: (i) calling for the participation of 
local communities and/or nongovernmental organizations; or (ii) increasing the utilization of 
local know-how and materials, provided they are efficient and acceptable to the Bank.  The 
procedures shall require, 
inter alia
,
local advertisement, evaluation of proposals and the use of 
standard contract forms specifically developed for community-based Micro-projects. 
Nongovernmental organizations, local services’ providers and other community-based 
organizations, registered according to the Borrower’s legislation, shall be allowed to participate 
in the selection process.  The USIF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to enable it to 
register and monitor, in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, the financial, 
technical and selection and employment aspects of these procedures.
Part C
: Review by the Bank of Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first two (2) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
for services to be selected in accordance with each of the procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 
and 5 of Part B of this Section II, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first five (5) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms under Part A of the Project; and (ii) the first two (2) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms for services to be selected in accordance with the procedure referred to in 
paragraph 2 (ii) of Part B of this Section II, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) the first five (5) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants under Part A of the Project; and (ii) the first two (2) contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants under Parts B and C of the Project, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
USIF shall implement the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, and except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the USIF shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in 
the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
2.
USIF shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with key performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Bank, on or about December 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Borrower and the Bank, by March 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
