                                   Document of
                                the World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR0000887




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IBRD-46420 TF-26452 TF-28380 TF-54756)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.21 MILLION

                                       TO

                                   UKRAINE

                                     FOR A

                     SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT




                               December 31, 2008




Human Development Sector Unit
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective November 17, 2008)

                             Currency Unit = Hryvnia
                                    1.00 = US$ 5.77
                                    US$ 1.00 = 0.17

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1-December 1



                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


                          Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu

                        Country Director:           Martin Raiser

                         Sector Manager:            Kathy Lindert

                    Project Team Leader:            Menahem Prywes

                       ICR Team Leader:             Maniza Naqvi

                                        UKRAINE
                        Social Investment Fund Project


                                      CONTENTS


1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.......................................1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.......................................4
3.    Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................9
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.................................................14
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..............................................15
6.    Lessons Learned................................................................................................17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.........................................................................19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................1
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................4
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .......................5
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.......................7
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents......................................................................15




                                                ii

MAP: IBRD 33505




                   iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Social Investment Fund
Country:               Ukraine                 Project Name:
                                                                     Project
                                                                     IBRD-46420,TF-
Project ID:            P069858                 L/C/TF Number(s):     26452,TF-28380,TF-
                                                                     54756
ICR Date:              01/19/2009              ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:             UKRAINE
Original Total
                       USD 50.2M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 50.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Ukrainian Social Investment Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/21/2000    Effectiveness:                          03/20/2002
Appraisal:             04/18/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/04/2001    Mid-term Review:      04/04/2005        05/10/2005
                                     Closing:              06/30/2008        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                Ratings

Quality at Entry:      Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Moderately
                                                                     Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately             Implementing           Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank           Moderately             Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:           Unsatisfactory         Performance:           Unsatisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                          20                 20
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector             20                 20
Health                                                            20                 20
Other social services                                             20                 20
Roads and highways                                                20                 20


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other human development                                         Secondary         Secondary
Other social protection and risk management                      Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                               Primary          Primary
Social analysis and monitoring                                  Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Martin Raiser                       Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:           Tamar Manuelyan Atinc               Annette Dixon
Project Team Leader:      Menahem M. Prywes                   Galina Y. Sotirova
ICR Team Leader:          Maniza B. Naqvi
ICR Primary Author:       Willem Struben




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives are: (i) improved living conditions of poor
communities and vulnerable groups in target areas; (ii) empowered communities and
vulnerable groups in targeted areas to address local social needs; and
  (iii) assistance to reform of social protection by creating models of targeting and service
provision.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Development Objective 1: Percent of beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with
                provided services.
Value
quantitative or N.A.                       80%                              90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                   06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Based on benificiary impact assessment recently carried out by USIF and

achievement)    individual consultant' methodolody and data not verified.

Indicator 2 :   Development Objective 1: Access to social services, as measured by the number
                of micro-projects completed.
Value
quantitative or 16                         650                              756
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                   06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Development Objective 2: Percent of participating communities that have
                initiated new project activities without USIF participation.
Value
quantitative or 15%                        80%                              85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                   06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Development Objective 2: Number of Users' Associations established.
Value
quantitative or 1                          400                              487



                                                 iii

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                    06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   Development Objective 3: Number of national and regional plans (for targeted
                regions) for sustainable social care services developed.
Value
quantitative or 0                           4                                4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                    06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 6 :   Development Objective 3: Targeting and service provision models used by USIF,
                incorporated in Government programs.
Value
quantitative or 0                           30                               0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                    06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Frame work law for social care services accepted by Cabinet, but no sustained

achievement)    policy follow-up.

                Development Objective 1: Fall in the morbidity rate (cases of disease per 1000)
Indicator 7 :   that follows implementation of micro-projects related to health (health centers,
                schools - if heating is involved, and potable water).
Value                                       Morbidity falls                  Morbidity falls
quantitative or N.A.                        from 87 per 1,000                from 87 per 1,000
Qualitative)                                to 71                            to 72
Date achieved 03/20/2002                    06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Morbidity by 6/30/08 reduced by 17.53 percent.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Development Objective 1: Number of direct micro-project beneficiaries.
Value
(quantitative   17,302                      900,000                          1,112,146
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                    06/08/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        1,037,481 social service micro-project beneficiaries and 74,665 social care

achievement)    micro-project beneficiaries.



                                                 iv

Indicator 2 :   Development Objective 1: Percentage of services operational two years after
                micro-project completion.
Value           N/A (all microprojects
(quantitative   were still within two       95%                                N.A
or Qualitative) years of completion)
Date achieved 03/20/2005                    06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Development Objective 1 &and 3: Number of social care services providers and
Indicator 3 :   trainers in the targeted oblasts trained in modern methods for social care
                provision.
Value
(quantitative   0                           730                                1,269
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2005                    06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        79 trainers, 478 micro-project social care providers, and 712 other social care

achievement)    providers.

Indicator 4 :   All Development Objectives: MIS fully operational.
Value
(quantitative   Yes                         Yes                                Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                    06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   All Development Objectives: Number of impact assessments carried out.
Value
(quantitative   0                           4                                  1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2002                    06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Completed in mid-2008.
achievement)
                Improved cost per beneficiary for renovation of social and communal
Indicator 6 :   infrastructure, and for social care services under the SIF as compared to existing
                practices.
Value
(quantitative   N.A.                        N.A.                               N.A.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                    06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Number of micro-projects with NGO-provided social services.
Value
(quantitative   9                           38                                 30



                                                  v

or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :  Number of contractors participated in USIF work.
Value
(quantitative  465                        1,300                              3,737
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :  Amount of community employment generated.
Value
(quantitative  N.A.                       N.A.                               N.A.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 10 : Social care services in target oblasts evaluated and experience disseminated
               nation-wide.
Value
(quantitative  No                         Yes                                Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11 : New social service purchasing models introduced in the target oblast.
Value
(quantitative  No                         Yes                                Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 12 : M&E system for social services in place and used by staff in MLSP and the
               targeted oblasts.
Value
(quantitative  No                         Yes                                No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                  06/30/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13 : Updated USIF Operational Manual.



                                               vi

Value
(quantitative  No                        Yes                               Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                 06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 14 : Public access to bid evaluation and all USIF records on implementation and
               financial management.
Value
(quantitative  No                        Yes                               Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                 06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 15 : Annual USIF bulletin published.
Value
(quantitative  No                        Yes                               Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/30/2002                 06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.50
  2     12/09/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    1.00
  3     12/26/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    1.00
  4     06/12/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    1.32
  5     06/19/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    1.32
  6     12/09/2003          Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                  2.27
  7     12/31/2003          Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                  2.27
  8     06/28/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    2.61
  9     12/27/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    8.60
  10    06/08/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  8.79
  11    06/13/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 15.77
  12    03/16/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 23.31
  13    11/19/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 39.25
  14    06/26/2008    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 50.21




                                              vii

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             viii

1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal

At the time of the project appraisal in April 2001, about 10 years after the transition from a command-
and-control socialist state to a market economy, Ukraine showed substantial institutional weaknesses. The
context was one of increasing poverty, rising disparity of the impact of the transition on different
population groups, and worsening governance. Children, single, elderly, and some other specific groups
had the highest poverty risks. Poverty was furthermore characterized by significant regional disparities,
with pockets of poverty also existing in relatively better-off regions.

While poverty was on the rise, the social assistance system remained ineffective in providing meaningful
support to those most in need. This was mainly due to program, administration, and financing
fragmentation, general under-funding, and poor design and implementation features, which led to
important exclusion and inclusion outcomes. Heavy subsidies to institutionalized care and to vulnerable
population groups, such as disabled, children, and the elderly, outweighed numerous benefits. This,
combined with the absence of alternative service provision, worked as a strong incentive to families to
prefer residential care, which reinforced inefficiencies and social exclusion.

The country also showed a dramatic deterioration of social services and community infrastructure, which
had a serious impact on access of poorer communities and vulnerable groups to health and education.
Persistent under-funding and the lack of clear responsibility and accountability resulted in poorly
functioning health and education sectors, worsening the effectiveness and quality of services.

In all, there was: (i) increasingly constrained access to services, due to deterioration of infrastructure, and
lack of management and organizational capacities at the communal/local level; (ii) poor quality of
services and public perception of deterioration and crisis; (iii) increasing occurrence of informal
payments, which further impeded the poor from benefiting from social services, and limited their long-
term opportunities for productive employment and improvement of living standards; (iv) poor state of
social care institutions, inadequate capacities for management and organization of social care at the local
level, and lack of sufficient alternative community-based service provision; and (v) poor government
capacity and the need to increase public participation and NGO involvement in dealing with social
services.

The Government' draft Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of March 2001 addressed the above
issues. The PRSP foresaw reforms aimed at the creation of better opportunities for productive
employment and reform of social security systems, as well as at strengthening of support to the poor and
vulnerable through better targeting of social assistance. As a first step, the Government planned the
preparation of legislation and regulations on social services contracting, and had also started the
establishment of community-based social services centers for some vulnerable groups. To assist in this
process, the Government established the Ukraine Social Investment Fund (USIF) by Regulation of April
28, 2000.

The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of September 2000 placed poverty and human development at
the core of the Bank program in Ukraine, and aimed to assist the Government and civil society in the
implementation of a broad-based poverty reduction strategy. The goal was to help civil society increase
its voice for better institutions, governance, accountability, and transparency, as well as contribute to
better social service provision. The CAS included support for the Ukraine Social Investment Fund (USIF)
Project in Bank fiscal year 2002.



                                                      1

The project was to focus on two crucial reforms of social service delivery: (a) targeting of social
infrastructure investments to the poorest and least-served communities and (b) piloting a shift in social
care service delivery away from a costly and institutionally ineffective centrally-managed system to
community-based approaches that foster competition of care providers. Once these approaches were
tested and proven workable, they were to enable Ukraine's agencies to pursue a more effective social and
economic development program, optimizing the outcome of public expenditures.

At the request of the Government, the project would cover all of Ukraine's 25 regions, but, as agreed with
the Bank, within each of those regions would limit its activities to the two poorest districts. The project
provided for a gradual implementation, which envisaged beginning with implementation in six regions
and gradually covering all regions.


1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objectives were: (i) improved living conditions of poor communities and
vulnerable groups in target areas; (ii) empowered communities and vulnerable groups in targeted areas to
address local social needs; and (iii) assistance to reform social protection by creating models of targeting
and service provision.

The approved, legal key performance indicators were:


(a)     increased number of good quality, cost-effective services operational in targeted areas,
        maintained and financially sustainable two years after the investment: at least 450 communal
        services micro-projects and 50 social care services micro-projects.
(b)     increased participation of NGOs, community-based organizations (CBOs), and local communities
        in decision-making and management of community and social care services, as measured by the
        proportion of participating communities initiating new activities and the number of user
        associations active two years after the initial investment: at least 400 user associations, CBOs
        active, and new activities initiated.
(c)     strengthened government capacity to formulate, monitor, and evaluate social policies, measured
        by: (i) national and regional plans for social care services developed by March 2007 (in two pilot
        regions), incorporating new targeting and service provision models, and (ii) dissemination of
        annual evaluation reports, based on the use of a modern system for monitoring and evaluation of
        social care services.
(d)     strengthened local entrepreneurship, measured by the number of contractors trained in USIF's
        procurement procedures and participating in USIF activities: at least 500 contractors.
(e)     employment created in targeted communities, measured by the number of man-days generated by
        the micro-projects.


1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
        reasons/justification

The PDOs stayed the same throughout project implementation. An additional indicator to measure
project outcome for the beneficiaries of the project was introduced in 2007: the fall in morbidity rate
following implementation of micro-projects related to health.




                                                       2

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

The project sought to target (a) poor and disadvantaged communities in both rural and small urban areas
(with a stronger targeting of rural areas) and (b) vulnerable groups, such as children from dysfunctional
families, youth and children at risk, elderly persons living alone, large families, physically and mentally
disabled, and other disadvantaged population groups. Organizations expected to benefit were all central
(Ministry of Labor and Social Protection-MLSP and Ministry of Finance-MOF), regional, and local
government agencies, NGOs, CBOs, and local communities, as well as contractors dealing with social
services and care provision.


1.5      Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Community-based micro-projects (US$63.2 million total projected cost)


The component aimed to: (i) improve the living conditions of the target population by providing better
quality of and access to basic social and communal services in their communities; (ii) empower
communities and vulnerable groups to make decisions and manage processes and assets; (iii) create new
and innovative community-based social care services as an alternative to residential care; (iv) develop
models for community-based service delivery; and (v) improve the development of social care policy.
This would be achieved by support for (a) community-based services micro-projects in the two poorest
districts in each of the country's 25 regions and (b) targeted social care service micro-projects in two
selected regions, as well as in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol.


Component 2: Capacity building (US$1.7 million total projected cost)


The component aimed to assist the Government in social protection reform and, in particular, the
preparation of a social care reform strategy by: (i) strengthening the capacity of MLSP and MOF to
formulate, monitor, and evaluate social care services policies, and then define and implement an
improved social care service financing and contracting system; (ii) strengthening regional authorities'
(regional and district) capacity to develop, monitor, and evaluate social care services programs; and (iii)
improving social care services quality through professional training of social workers in social care
service micro-projects in two pilot regions.


Component 3: Project management, monitoring, and evaluation (US$4.7 million total projected cost)


The component was to ensure efficient project implementation in targeted areas by using effective
mechanisms of project management, proper tools of project monitoring and evaluation, and raising public
awareness about project experience. This would be achieved through (i) institutional support to the USIF
executive office; (ii) monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) public information and education.


1.6      Revised Components

N.A.


1.7      Other significant changes

The USIF Supervisory Board agreed, following consultation with the Bank, in 2007 to open up access of
all of the country's 490 districts to USIF's communal services micro-projects (see section 2.2). This
agreement was reached after a review of the slow commitment of funding for communal services micro-



                                                       3

projects in the 50 agreed districts, and the upcoming Loan closing date of June 30, 2008. As a result, an
additional 28 districts participated. Similarly, coverage of the pilot social care services sub-component
was expanded from four to six regions.


2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation was started in 1998, and the project was designed with the help of two PHRD grants
(US$0.25 million and US$0.89 million, respectively). USIF project design benefited from the initial,
although limited, lessons of a DFID-funded pilot social services micro-project in two districts in one
region. It also benefited from the Bank's substantial experience with social investment funds in other
countries. This experience was reflected in the targeting of beneficiaries, the selected social sector
investment priorities, the importance attached to monitoring and evaluation, and the emphasis on
sustainability and maintenance arrangements for the completed micro-projects (including local
counterpart funding).

In hindsight, the two issues of limited absorptive capacity of the implementing agencies and communities,
as well as the limited experience of the technical experts in the regions, should have received more and
earlier attention at preparation. This might have been clearer if at the time of USIF preparation the DFID-
funded pilot had already been completed. The completed pilot would have yielded further lessons on
designing mitigating measures for risk in the USIF process and operations. In addition, a technical
investment agency such as USIF was probably not the most appropriate vehicle to improve the
Government's social care policy capacity, which is the responsibility of MLSP. Experience in most
countries shows that there is more incentive to improve policy capacity if implementation and funding are
handled by the same responsible agency. Apart from this aspect, the second component ­social care
reform- was far from ready for immediate implementation. However, the ICR team recognizes that this
was the first social sector operation of the Bank in Ukraine, and that there was considerable pressure from
the Borrower and Bank management to move quickly, before the upcoming elections, on a broad, nation-
wide sector front. The Loan became effective four months after Board approval.

The risks were reasonably well identified and provided for, with the exception of corruption and the new,
decentralized implementation arrangements. Given the large number of small contracts and multiple
actors, social investment funds face a higher risk of corruption. Although the USIF contracting process
was well-designed, this risk should have been explicitly identified, particularly taking into account the
Transparency International rating of Ukraine. Further DFID project experience would have been useful in
this regard, but, as noted earlier, it had only started to generate experience at the time of USIF appraisal.

There was substantial consultation through meetings, workshops, and public information campaigns with
all relevant actors, including central and local governments, local communities, NGOs, and relevant
donor agencies.

Some of these observations were also noted in the Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) report of May
2002, which gave an overall Satisfactory rating. To quote: "The QEA panel agreed with the task team
that, in the present country circumstances, the USIF project appeared to be a worthwhile endeavor with
solid prospects of producing positive results. Two factors affected the design and processing of this
project: (i) the Government's insistence on having a large-scale project covering the entire country; and
(ii) the decision to process the project quickly before the upcoming elections. As a result, the project was
approved by the Board before more information could be generated by the recently launched DFID-
funded pilot project on possible risks, and its scope extended to cover all [regions] of the country. In the



                                                         4

panel's judgment, these two factors did not affect the project's overall quality, though they resulted in
shortcomings in the implementation arrangements." The QEA panel suggested the following "factors
requiring particular attention:

(a)      clarify implementation arrangements for social care services, and linkages/interplay with
         proposed sector policy reforms.
(b)      expand community training programs beyond a series of one-day seminars and workshops.
(c)      review arrangements to ensure active participation of Roma and women.
(d)      in addition to the annual financial, procurement, and technical audits, consider adding quarterly
         operational/management audits."


2.2      Implementation

Despite the establishment of the USIF executive office, with key staffing and an approved Operational
Manual, the project had a slow start. The Loan was approved in December 2001, and became effective in
March 2002, but disbursement during the initial years was slowed down by the slow establishment of a
project special account by the Government in 2002, and a change in government funding procedures in
2003 (a common problem across all Bank-assisted projects in Ukraine). The latter caused the project to
miss the 2003 construction season. In addition, implementation was affected by multiple changes in
government, with implications for the composition of USIF's Supervisory Board and the position of
Executive Director (three EDs during the first three years). Following the Orange Revolution in late-2004,
and the appointment of a new government in early-2005, project implementation was even suspended
officially until the Supervisory Board could meet again. Because of funding constraints, the Government
also suspended payment of contractors in late-2006, but this was relatively quickly corrected.

The resulting slow implementation of the first component's communal services sub-component and
disbursement under the Loan, as well as the June 30, 2008 (closing date) of the Loan, led the USIF
Supervisory Board in 2006 to discuss measures to quickly improve progress. Taking into account that
some of the poorest districts had found it difficult to provide the required local counterpart funding, the
Board decided that the only way to accelerate implementation and disbursement would be to open up
access to the project to all of the country's districts. Following consultation with the Bank and a
publicity/information campaign throughout the country, USIF approved 28 additional district applications
on a "first come/first serve" basis in 2007. The districts had to meet three criteria: (a) organize a
community meeting to set investment priorities, (b) provide project documentation and cost, and (c)
contribute local counterpart funding within two weeks of micro-project approval by USIF. This led to a
rapid increase in commitments, and the number of communal services micro-projects eventually exceeded
its target (676, compared to the projected 600; see Annex 2).

Implementation of the first component's social care services sub-component took off even more slowly.
Due to the need to first carry out a needs assessment, the first micro-project did not get started until
November 2005, but, eventually, it too exceeded its target (80, compared to the projected 60; see Annex
2). This was facilitated by increasing its coverage from four to six regions.

All civil works were accompanied by training for communities and contractors, and this was contracted
for separately. A Japanese Grant (April 21, 2005) in the amount of US$1.7 million provided additional
funding for training for capacity building of "the most destitute" communities and local government
agencies, but did not become fully operational until early-2007.

The start of the second component- capacity building for social care reform- was also quite delayed. The
training activities had to await a capacity needs assessment of the central and regional government
institutions, which only was completed in early-2005. Policy studies too started late. A host of studies


                                                      5

were completed, but few turned out to be productive. A Framework Law for Social Care Services was
agreed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and an action plan to implement social care policies was worked out,
but none of this resulted in official, sustained changes in social sector policies by MLSP and MOF.

A Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) took place in August 2004. The panel noted that the main
project implementation problem so far had been "a change in government in late-2002. This led to a
consequent loss of momentum in project implementation, culminating in a delay of 12 to 18 months in
progress towards achievement of the DO and also slow disbursements. Other problems encountered were
conflicts between budget legislation and Bank rules governing disbursement, and also bottlenecks caused
by centralized procurement in USIF". Subsequently, bottlenecks in disbursement were resolved, and
procurement functions were decentralized to improve efficiency. The panel advised that the mid-term
review (MTR) raise the profile of the project and ensure that the new Government also develop an early
commitment to the project and that further time is not lost. In addition, the panel emphasized the
importance of reaching agreement to delegate day-to-day management to the implementing agency and
away from the Supervisory Board to avoid disruption caused by changes in government.

The MTR was carried out in May 2005, and made detailed recommendations on facilitating
implementation by introducing community-managed contracting for social services micro-projects and on
deleting the need for local counterpart funding of social care services micro-projects. However, these
proposed actions, which could have been of substantial help in ensuring more efficient project
implementation, were never approved by Government.

The appointment of a dynamic USIF Executive Director in August 2005 helped advance full Loan
disbursement and substantial physical project implementation by the originally agreed closing date.


2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project Design Summary and Results Framework of the PAD (Annex 1) mentions six
outcome/impact indicators: (i) number of beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with provided services to
measure PDO1; (ii) number of micro-projects completed by type and target groups to measure PDO1; (iii)
percentage of participating communities that have initiated new project activities without USIF
participation to measure PDO2; (iv) number of Users' Associations established to measure PDO2; (v)
National and regional plans (for targeted regions) for sustainable social services developed to measure
PDO3; (vi) Targeting and service provision models used by USIF, incorporated in government programs
to measure PDO3.

While there is some evidence that these indicators were met, as discussed below, there were several
weaknesses with this Results Framework as originally defined and carried out.

First, the indicators included in the original Results Framework were mostly "output" indicators, and
were not well-defined. They thus did not adequately measure the "development outcomes" of a poverty
targeted intervention. In fact, in the absence of poverty-related sector or project data, the second part of
the second indicator- target groups- was subsequently dropped. In early-2008, the Bank task team and
USIF sought to define and measure real outcome indicators. Although this proved difficult ex-post, they
introduced a new and seventh indicator: Fall in the morbidity rate (cases of disease per 1000) that follows
implementation of micro-projects related to health (health centers, schools-if heating is involved, and
potable water). This was a useful effort.

Second, although USIF's MIS provided the necessary data to monitor the above-mentioned indicators in
the results framework, evaluation of project results was poor. Apart from regular project quantitative and
qualitative implementation monitoring, USIF was supposed to carry out (i) once every two years, a


                                                      6

procurement and technical review of 20 percent of the completed micro-projects; and (ii) annual
beneficiary impact assessments. However, of all of these studies, only one beneficiary assessment was
carried out, during the first half of 2008, just before project closing.

At that time, USIF made an effort to evaluate the project's impact. According to USIF, an individual
consultant was hired to propose a methodology for conducting such a study, and USIF staff and
employees of beneficiary facilities subsequently collected the data. Analysis was done by USIF staff and
the consultant. The Bank received a copy of the report in December 2008, but has not been able to assess
the quality of the methodology and sample design because of the considerable length of the document
which is being translated. Therefore, while the report has been summarized, the full value of the report's
findings is not clear (see Annex 5, Beneficiary Survey Results).

In addition, USIF is expected to contract a consulting company to evaluate the effectiveness of the
community training funded through the Japanese Grant. The results would be of interest, once the study
is carried out, although this portion of the project was not funded by the Bank.

Finally, it is evident from the lack of data availability in the project documents on systematic project costs
and comparisons as well as beneficiary surveys that, prior to the last year of implementation, project
evaluation did not receive adequate attention, neither from the Government, nor from responsible Bank
management and staff. In this context, it is also worth noting that, as suggested by the QEA panel (see
section 2.1), project implementation monitoring might have benefited from "additional quarterly
operational/management audits" to be carried out by an outside auditor. In addition, project monitoring
and evaluation could have benefited from better key performance indicators of an outcome nature. As
mentioned above, USIF and Bank staff tried to correct this in 2007, but it was "too little, too late".

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was in general compliance with the agreed financial management, procurement, and
environmental requirements during project implementation. However, the scheduled 2008 procurement
post-review never took place, because of the departure of the responsible USIF staff member and a lack of
follow-up by the Bank procurement team. There are four concerns raised regarding fiduciary and
safeguard compliance that have arisen in the course of USIF project implementation. These concerns and
the actions taken to address them are as follows.

First, in October 2007, a complaint from an NGO and community about possible corruption reached the
Bank. Actions taken: After consulting INT, the Bank hired an international consulting firm, which
completed a performance audit of 12 social services micro-projects, to identify any systematic
irregularities in procurement and/or implementation, in July 2008. The audit noted various issues related
to micro-project contracting and quality, but did not find any explicit cases of malfeasance. It
recommended a follow-up on the NGO complaint for three micro-projects. Following a discussion with
Bank management, the report will be sent to USIF, the Accounting Chamber, and responsible government
agencies for their information and response. The final report was received in October 2008. This report
was referred to INT. The Country Director sent the report to USIF, the Accounting Chamber, MLSP, and
the MOF. The NGO was sent a letter to brief them on the situation. All of these documents are on the
project files.

Second, in May 2008, the Bank was alerted by USIF that, in 2006-07, USIF disbursed the equivalent of
about US$4-5 million for 37 micro-projects costing over US$100,000 each. These were supposed to have
received both USIF Supervisory Board approvals and Bank no-objections. But the request for no
objection for these 37 micro projects reached the Bank as late as in March 2008. The `no objection` was
not issued because the Task Team Leader considered that such a late round of micro-projects would have



                                                        7

risked not being completed within the project timeline. Furthermore, it was brought to the Bank's
attention by the USIF Executive Director that, in fact, most of those micro-projects had been either under
implementation or completed and because of USIF`s omission, the request for no objection did not come
before their start. Again, this issue, and the possible need for requiring a refund, was discussed with Bank
management. It was decided to clarify the numbers and amounts involved, as well as to do a field survey
of a sample of those micro-projects, before making a decision on possible ex-post no-objections or other
action. Actions taken:

(i)      Procurement staff are reviewing the contract that underlay the 37 micro-projects at issue.1 Once
         this review is completed the Task Team Leader and an engineer would visit a sample of these
         micro-projects and verify their quality; and
(ii)     In December 2008, the Bank received a copy of an audit carried out by Ukraine's Accounting
         Chamber. The report includes a reference to the issue of the 37 micro-projects mentioned above.
         Bank management decided to seek cooperation with the Accounting Chamber in addressing this
         issue. In addition, Ukraine's MOF is pursuing this with the Accounting Chamber.

Third, the report of the Accounting Chamber of Ukraine highlights concerns regarding the number of
projects reported as completed and the number of beneficiaries for the social service subcomponent. The
report is quite critical of USIF's processes and results. According to this audit by the Accounting
Chamber, at the end of the project only 710 micro-projects were actually completed as opposed 756
reported by the USIF. However, the USIF target was 650.2 In the social care services sub-component out
of 80 micro-projects, 72 micro projects (out of 80) involved physical rehabilitation of facilities. By the
end of the project, works acceptance certificates were signed for 68 of them while in the other 4 works
were underway. In general, delivery of such micro-projects to the community should have been supported
via signed project completion document. Out of 80 micro-projects reported as completed, the completion
documents were signed for 58 of these micro projects. The USIF project target was 30 such models. In
addition, documentation checks confirmed that out of the reported 487 user associations officially
registered were 312. The USIF target was 400 users associations. Furthermore, the Accounting
Chamber's checks surfaced incorrect recording of social care services beneficiaries. Specifically, the
USIF records are claimed to include both direct and indirect recipients of the above services. According
to the Accounting Chamber, out of 74,000 beneficiaries mentioned in USIF report, the direct recipients of
the services proved to be 5000 people. Actions taken: The Bank has requested further information from
the Accounting Chamber. The MoF is pursuing the issues with the Accounting Chamber which have
been brought up in the report.

Fourth, the financial audit for 2007 is late and had not been received at the time of the ICR. The reasons
for this was that the USIF Supervisory Board had to approve the selection of the auditing firm, and, with a
change in its Chairman, the country's Deputy Prime Minister, this did not take place until recently.

1
    The preliminary conclusion, based on 30 contracts reviewed, as of this ICR drafting December 17, 2008, is that
USIF followed the agreed procedures in general, at least in procuring the contractors for small works.

2
    In particular, the Accounting Chamber's audit reported that out of 676 communal services micro-projects only
652 have gone through the whole project implementation cycle. Four of them were recorded as completed based on
supplied equipment and delivered training while without any rehabilitation works, though the latter seem to have
been envisaged at the beginning of the project as there was a design documentation produced for them. A check and
review of the remaining 20 micro-projects showed that they had not been fully implemented (i.e. not all works were
completed) by the project closing date. The major reason for this was the late start of the micro-projects in question.




                                                          8

Actions Taken: The auditor has now been appointed, and the audit field work has been completed. The
auditors were finalizing the audit report and management letter at the time of the ICR. The audit report is
expected by the end of December


2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

With the new focus of the Bank and Government on infrastructure improvements, as described in the
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) of November 2007, the Bank is not considering further support for
USIF. The Bank is providing further sector support through a US$99.4 million loan for a Social
Assistance System Modernization Project with MLSP, initiated in 2005. This project is currently
experiencing implementation problems.

USIF is still receiving funding for community training under the Japanese Grant, but this is expected to
close in April 2009. In addition, USIF is receiving funding from KfW for a relatively small community-
based operation until 2010, and a second KfW-supported operation for two-three more years is being
considered. Furthermore, USIF is managing a grant from SIDA for social care management and training;
the second phase of this activity is expected to close by the end of 2009.

So far, the Government has been providing about 10 percent of all micro-project funding, but, with the
Bank-assisted project now closed, USIF has had to sharply reduce its staff, and its role over the medium-
longer term is uncertain.


3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


Rating: Satisfactory

As described in the 2000 CAS, the project was envisaged to be a central part of Ukraine's and the Bank's
poverty reduction activities. As also confirmed by the QEA panel, the project was therefore Substantially
Relevant at the time of appraisal as well as during the initial years of its implementation.

Though subsequently, Ukraine's social and economic environment changed rapidly, the project remained
focused on delivering the outputs as defined in the results framework. The project objectives or outputs
did not shift with the evolving context. In more recent years, the country's macro-economic environment
allowed for the transfer of real resources to its people, and Ukraine moved from a low to a middle-income
level. The 2007 CPS thus focuses on: (i) the improvement in competitiveness; (ii) the reform of public
finance and the public sector to improve service delivery and make growth socially inclusive; and (iii)
tackling weaknesses in government. There is no further explicit Bank support for community and local
government-based poverty reduction activities. Even in the new strategic context, the USIF project made
some positive contribution. The second and third CPS priorities were supported by the project's poverty
targeting and decentralized operation of community and local government-based social services and
social care activities (certainly initially), as well as the, admittedly minor, capacity building of relevant
central and local government agencies. However, at the time of writing this ICR there is a global
financial, food and fuel crisis which has also affected Ukraine. The capacity of a project such as the USIF
would have been of high relevance at such a time to delivery services to the poor. Moreover, The
Country Director considered the project relevant for three reasons (i) in the context of a a difficult social
sector policy environment which is resistant to change (ii) the project retained some relevance (iii) it was
one of the few projects that managed to close on time and (iv) with at least the output targets significantly
achieved. Consequently, the project objectives, design, and implementation remain of positive relevance



                                                        9

to current context of the country's priorities, and the ICR team would rate overall relevance as
Satisfactory.


3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

There were three parts to the Project Objective: i) improved living conditions of poor communities and
vulnerable groups in target areas; (ii) empowered communities and vulnerable groups in targeted areas to
address local social needs; and (iii) assistance to reform of social protection by creating models of
targeting and service provision. Six out of the seven of the `outcome" indicators, as shown in the data
base and mentioned in Section 2.3 (Monitoring and Evaluation), were agreed at appraisal and were met or
exceeded. However, as also mentioned earlier, most of the "outcome" indicators are actually "output"
indicators and evaluation of the actual development outcomes was not conducted and perhaps not possible
given the agreed results framework.

Objective 1 was to improve the living conditions of poor communities and vulnerable groups in target
areas. Three out of the seven project "outcome" indicators in the Results Framework were related to this
objective.  These were:      (i)   Fall in the morbidity rate (cases of disease per 1,000) that follows
implementation of micro-projects related to health (health centers, schools-if heating is involved, and
potable water); (ii) Percentage of beneficiaries which expressed satisfaction with the provided services;
and (iii) Access to social services, as measured by the number of micro-projects completed.

The cost of the micro projects (US$55.1 million) in this component accounted for approximately 80
percent of the total project costs (US$69.6 million). The number of social services and social care micro-
projects according to USIF 756, compared to the projected 650 micro projects, as well as the number of
their beneficiaries (1.1 million, compared to the projected 0.9 million), exceeded the targets, confirming
improved access to such services, and by implication, living conditions. Also, morbidity in beneficiary
communities showed a significant decline of 17 percent, contributing to the suggestion that the living
conditions objective was likely achieved through casualty was not established. At the same time, it
should be noted that (i) the project also covered more well-to-do districts since 2007, and (ii) the recent
beneficiary impact assessment shows poor poverty targeting (see Annex 3).

            Table 1: Community Based Micro Projects: Beneficiaries and Average Costs

     Component 1: Community                Number of            Number of           Average Cost Per
        Based Micro projects                Projects           Beneficiaries         Project (US$)
  Subcomponent 1.1 Communal                    676               1,037,481                 70,000
  Micro Projects
  Subcomponent 1:2: Social Care                80                   74,655                  90,000
  Micro projects
  Total                                        756               1,112,146              55,100,000

              Table 2: Micro Projects Component 1.1 and 1.2: Typology and Numbers

    Subcomponent 1.1 Micro            Numbers              Subcomponent 1.2:                 Numbers
             Projects                                        Micro Projects
 Schools and Kindergartens               373      Center for Crisis Intervention                  6
 Community Cultural Centers               59      Center for Early Intervention                   8
 Health Posts                             47      Day Care Centers                               15



                                                     10

  Roads                                   28       Community Centers                               3
  Water supply                          155        Day centers for Labor Rehabilitation          16
  Environmental improvement                8       Hospice                                         2
  Others                                   6       Shelters                                       13
                                                   Independent Living Support                      5
                                                   Social Support                                 12
  Total                                 676                                                       80

This PDO for Objective 1 should thus be rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The PDO is rated as
moderately satisfactory because most output indicators as defined in the results framework exceeded their
targets. These indicators were for the number of micro projects implemented. The absence of robust
evaluation results on development outcomes mitigates against a higher rating.



Objective 2 was to empower communities and vulnerable groups in targeted areas to address local social
needs.    Two of the seven indicators were related to the second objective (i): number of Users'
Associations established, and (ii) percentage of participating communities that have initiated new project
activities without USIF participation.

The project data confirm that the percentage of beneficiary communities initiating their own follow-up
activities (85 compared to the projected 80) and the number of users' associations established (487
compared to the projected 400) exceeded their targets. The PDO is rated as moderate, because although
positive, it is not certain to what extent these indicators reflect the extent of community empowerment.
The beneficiary impact assessment seems to indicate that the communities were substantially involved,
although, again, it is unclear, apart from the local authorities, to what extent the individual community
members were involved in the micro-project process. The PDO is rated as moderately satisfactory
because the Bank task team visits confirmed that micro-project processing contributed to partnerships of
leaders among parents, social service professionals, and NGO staff with local governments.
Consequently, this PDO for Objective 2 should be rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

Objective 3 was to assist reform of social protection by creating models of targeting and service
provision. Two of the seven indicators in the Results Framework were related to the third objective: (i)
number of national and regional plans (for targeted regions) for sustainable social care services
developed; and (ii) targeting and service provision models used by USIF, incorporated in government
programs.

Measuring this objective proved more problematic. The two indicators do not seem to have much value,
because they did not relate directly to objective 3. Objective 3 was to create models which would assist
reform. Yet the indicators, particularly the second indicator was to measure the actual occurrence of
reform. And, in hindsight, these indicators should have been restructured during supervision. However,
they were not.

It can be argued that the objective was only "to create models, which would assist reform", which the
project did achieve. Indeed, the objective did not state explicitly that these models would actually spawn
reform. However, one can equally argue that, as stated in the PAD, the objective would be achieved
through "strengthening the policy formulation, monitoring and management capabilities of central and
local government in the area of social care services financing and delivery." Using the latter definition,
not much was achieved. It is true that the number of national and regional plans for sustainable social
care services met the agreed target (see Annex 2), thus in principle contributing to the social care reform
objective. USIF also drew lessons from these models, and, through workshops, seminars, and papers,



                                                     11

communicated them to relevant line agencies, such as MLSP and MOF. Indeed, in recent years, USIF
produced a host of papers on policy concepts, standards, and plans, as well as data-bases, and these did
lead to a Framework Law on Social Care Services in 2006/07, as well as the establishment of an action
plan. However, these workshops, seminars, papers or models had a limited impact on national policy
and practices; eventually, none led to changes in MLSP's and MOF's social sector policies, and none of
the targeting and service provision models used by USIF was ever incorporated in nation-wide
government programs. The Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports was actively opposed to some of the
new concepts, in particular the more active involvement of NGOs.

This PDO for Objective 3 is thus rated as Unsatisfactory.

Based on the above assessments and (a) given a weak results framework (outputs rather than outcomes),
mismatched indicators and an absence of robust evaluation results on outcomes for all three objectives,
and (b) lack of measurable achievements on the third objective, the Overall PDO Rating should be
rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.


3.3     Efficiency

Rating: NA

As in most of the social development projects, it is difficult to provide an overall project economic and
financial analysis because of the difficulty of quantifying the benefits in the absence of the necessary data.
Even if the data regarding the unit costs were available, the relevance of comparison is not that
meaningful due to the diversity of micro-project types and the local conditions where they are
implemented.

There is some information on costs of micro projects. The average cost per micro-project (both communal
service and social care) mentioned in the PAD was US$60,000. At project completion, the cost of the 756
micro-projects amounted to US$55.1 million, or about US$73,000 per micro-project. According to the
USIF MIS records, average cost of communal service micro-project was slightly below US$70,000 while
in social care component the cost amounted to almost US$90,000 per micro-project.3

However, there is little information to judge cost-efficiency. As far as the overall project is concerned, the
PAD did mention that a cost-effectiveness study would be carried out after the first year of project
implementation. This would be based on pilot micro-projects, and would be compared with similar public
and NGO programs, as well as the costs of residential institutional care as appropriate. However, USIF
management did not implement this, and the study never took place. As such, given a lack of data, an
assessment of efficiency was not possible.


3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Most of the key performance indicators as defined in the Results Framework (and shown in the database)
were met or exceeded according to data and information provided by USIF. In addition, even with the



3  The USIF MIS records were kept in UAH which makes it difficult to produce accurate estimates of average
micro-project cost in USD due to fluctuations in exchange rate over the project implementation period.




                                                       12

substantial change in Ukraine's economic and social environment, the project did maintain a Satisfactory
Relevance.

The project was a poverty-targeted intervention, and should have had more of a development impact. It
was rated as Moderately Satisfactory for several reasons:


        ·      Although the project achieved its physical objectives according to the indicators in the
               Results Framework, and indeed exceeded the total number of micro projects envisaged,
               which constituted approximately 80 percent of the project financing; and contributed to
               introducing new concepts of decentralized social care, it should be emphasized that the
               investment targets were (a) only achieved by eventually steering away from the poorest
               districts, and therefore (b) defused the poverty objective and that (c) the new social care
               concepts were never reflected in the responsible line agencies' actual policies and
               operations.
        ·      Furthermore, basic data on costs, efficiency and comparative costs was not available from
               USIF and should have been available given that this is standard practice for Social Funds,.
               A cost study which would have provided cost breakdown per sub project and a comparison
               of costs with other similar projects was not carried out even though it was requested by the
               Bank.
        ·      There was a lack of measurable achievements on the third objective.
        ·      There was an absence of robust evaluation results on outcomes for all three objectives and
               scheduled evaluations, such as annual beneficiary assessments, were not carried out.
        ·      It should have had a results framework that measured outcomes (not just outputs) but did
               not.
        ·      The Results framework could have been formally revised to measure outcomes during
               supervision but was not (although the team did try to introduce morbidity as a proxy for
               outcomes)



3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was a targeted intervention. It had a slightly positive impact on poverty reduction by using
newly developed poverty targeting criteria, which reached the poorest communities and a range of
vulnerable groups, including disabled children and youth, elderly, and street children. Also, in view of
the nature of the infrastructure and training provided under the project, women no doubt benefited
substantially from the social services and social care micro-projects.


The project contributed to Ukraine's social development by strengthening the role of the community and
vulnerable group beneficiaries in deciding priorities and managing the processes. It also aimed to
contribute to improving Ukraine's social sector policies as designed and implemented through the central
and regional government agencies, although this contribution was virtually negated by the lack of policy
follow-up by MLSP and MOF to the policy proposals being produced through project-funded consultancy
studies and technical assistance.


(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening




                                                     13

The project provided a substantial amount of training for officials of central and regional government
agencies involved in social protection, the project's third objective. As mentioned above, this was also
supported under the Japanese Grant. However, according to four individual, local consultants hired in
early-2008 to assess the results of the latter, the provision of most training seems to have been poorly
planned and managed, and its longer-term outcome thus seems questionable.

On the positive side, the beneficiary communities and groups managing programs for vulnerable groups
gained some experience in handling social services and social care micro-projects, respectively.

In addition, 3,730 contractors were hired under the project, and were thus exposed to internationally-
agreed contracting procedures and quality requirements.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N.A.


3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There were no stakeholder workshops, but a beneficiary impact assessment was carried out in mid-2008,
around the time of the project closing. As detailed in annex 5, the methodology and thus the reliability of
the findings of the assessment are not fully clear.   A one thousand page document in Ukrainian has been
received recently by the Bank (in December 2008) but the substance in the assessment is weak. The
project has completed a large number of subprojects 667 yet only 861 respondents were survey in 36
microprojects. It is not clear from the assessment whether representatives of local communities are
government appointed officials or not. However, the findings seem to point to:

    -   on the positive side: Seventy-nine percent of the surveyed community members appeared to be
        involved in the micro-projects, either directly or indirectly contributing to their implementation.
        However, an even higher percentage ­ 80 percent - confirmed that the living conditions improved
        in their community as a result of the project activities; and
    -   substantial community participation in the micro-project implementation/counterpart funding;
        substantial improvement in the living conditions of community members, considerable
        satisfaction with the quality of the received social care services; and
    -   on the negative side, a serious lack of adequate poverty targeting of social care services, and a
        small percentage of community members having been trained.


4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The completed micro-projects will likely be sustained, because, from the start of the project, the
beneficiary communities and local organizations had to agree upon stringent and explicit maintenance
requirements, as detailed in USIF's Operational Manual. Their commitment was also ensured by insisting
upon substantial up-front community and local agency counterpart contributions in cash, labor, and/or
materials, amounting to 10 percent of the projected micro-project cost in the case of communal services
and 20 percent in the case of social care operations.

The project's useful policy output was quite limited; at best, it contributed to a relatively minor change in
thinking about social service provision in general and social care services in particular, going in the
direction of a more sustainable social sector development approach.



                                                     14

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1      Bank Performance

(a)      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The Bank task team did look at all aspects of the project, helped by substantial stakeholder consultation,
the first, but limited, results of the DFID-funded pilot operation, and considerable experience with social
investment funds in the region and elsewhere. The PAD and Operational Manual (OM) were well-written.
In view of Ukraine's poverty and the need to have the centralized decision and implementation process
replaced by a more decentralized process with the involvement of local governments, communities, and
social care organizations, the approach was the right one. And the Bank ensured that the OM and key
USIF staffing were provided for at the project start. Indeed, the QAE panel concluded that project
preparation benefited from a strong Bank team, with an experienced leader and staff continuity" and rated
Bank Input and Processes as "Satisfactory".

Given the benefit of hindsight, the assessment of this ICR is that during project preparation, to
accommodate a deadline driven by elections, the Bank (management, project team) went ahead with a
project design for a country-wide project, which had not fully benefited from the lessons to be learned
under the DFID-funded pilot project. The project outcome might have been more positive if the lessons
from the results of the pilot had been incorporated and the election outcome had been awaited. It is true
that the project provided for a gradual implementation, and thus limited the absorptive capacity risk
factor, but it is also noted that the project had a very slow start, due to changes in government and some
still unknown implementation procedures. Most likely, it would have been beneficial to await for the
outcome of the elections and deal with the new, and hopefully committed, administration from the start of
the project. In addition, as discussed in previous sections, the results framework was weak, with most of
the key indicators based on outputs and insufficiently linked to the outcomes of the project, ultimately
hindering the Bank's ability to determine the extent to which development outcomes were achieved. The
disconnect between exceeding the key indicators but with lack of clarity of whether outcomes was
achieved is a demonstration of the importance of a robust results framework.



As mentioned above, the ICR team identified some additional issues. First, the limited absorptive capacity
of the implementing agencies and communities, as well as the limited experience of the technical experts
in the regions, should have received more attention. And, second, the project should probably not have
tried to improve MLSP's social care policy capacity through USIF. Third, the results framework was
poorly defined.


(b)      Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

The Bank task team was first rated by the above-mentioned QSA panel in August 2004. The panel rated
overall quality of supervision as Satisfactory, and only had minor criticisms about the accuracy of the
internal project supervision report ratings and the lack of environmental staff support during supervision.
It concluded that" the task team responded adequately to the problems encountered and made judgments
which took into account political implications".




                                                      15

Indeed, the ICR team agrees that the Bank provided for regular supervision of all aspects of the project,
including through the contracting of a local consultant available for full-time technical support to USIF.
Although supervision could have benefited from the inclusion of an environmental specialist on a few
occasions, it is agreed that the micro-projects seem to have had limited negative environmental
implications. This also was not identified as an issue by the international audit firm mentioned in section
2.4. But staff continuity in the Bank task team was an issue, and supervision was affected by the frequent
task team leader turnover: four leaders in six years, unavoidably leading to some loss of institutional
knowledge. Procurement and financial management supervision were provided for by Kiev-based staff,
which allowed for close contact with the client. However, with such a complex, nation-wide operation,
supervision might have benefited from more frequent field visits by the responsible staff. Indeed, more
frequent contact with a wider range of beneficiaries might have alerted the Bank to some of the issues
recently brought to the Bank's attention, particularly as regards procurement (see section 2.4).

A more serious issue is that it is not clear whether, at the project start, Bank management and the task
team took corrective action based on the QEA panel's four recommendations (see section 2.1). In
addition, when Ukraine moved from low-income to middle-income status, when the need for poverty
corrective measures changed, and when USIF's Supervisory Board decided to move away from the
agreed poverty targeting and open up its regional coverage, Bank management seemingly did not get
involved to ensure the project's continued relevance and implementation in accordance with agreed
poverty and/or other criteria. At the very least in such a complex work environment, Bank management
should have paid substantial attention to the requisite monitoring and evaluation instruments (see section
2.3).

It also should be noted that the PSRs during the period 2002-2004 do not seem to be properly filed in the
Bank data base, and, apart from the aide-memoires, little useful information is available to assess
implementation in those years. As of 2005, the ISRs are well-written, and provide satisfactory
assessments of issues, recommendations, and ratings.

To assist social care policy development, the Bank completed in mid-2006 a small study describing the
country's relevant legal and regulatory framework, which was presented at a national conference.

In all, the Bank's performance during implementation should be rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Although the QAE is rated as Moderately Satisfactory, because the project was projected to address some
major social sector policy and operational issues, the project subsequently did not receive adequate
attention, which should be rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. This was partly because of the frequent
change in task managers, but more important because of a lack of management attention to monitoring a
complex poverty targeted intervention in a rapidly changing country environment. The ICR thus rates this
as overall Moderately Unsatisfactory.


5.2      Borrower Performance

(a)      Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                                     16

Although the various administrations endorsed the new, decentralized approach and provided, sometimes
with delays and therefore late, the necessary budget support, central agency support was much affected by
the frequent changes in administrations. This also had considerable implications for the composition and
operational effectiveness of USIF's Supervisory Board and the position of its Executive Director (ED).
The frequent changes in the position of ED- four in six years- had a negative impact on USIF's absorptive
capacity. This was even more important because of the frequent political pressure on the various EDs by
Ministers and other senior GOU officials. In addition, the Government -MLSP and MOF- did not take
any substantial policy and operational action to benefit from the host of studies and technical assistance
on social service and care provision policies produced and provided by USIF and its consultants. As a
result, the third project objective was not achieved.

(b)      Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The performance of USIF fluctuated over time. It took until about 2005 to be adequately staffed at both
the center and its eight regional offices, and this contributed to the slow start of the project. On the
positive side, the technical staff of USIF proved to be capable, and the current ED helped much in
ensuring that the project's physical targets, as well as full Loan disbursement, were achieved by the
originally agreed closing date. However, on the negative side, project monitoring and evaluation were
virtually non-existent. In addition, attention was not paid early enough to the softer aspects of the project,
including getting the social care services sub-component going, emphasizing quality training of all
community, local government, and agency beneficiaries, and pushing for MLSP and MOF follow-up of
the social care policy advice produced under the project. As mentioned in section 2.4, USIF also did not
pay adequate attention to following up on some of the identified fiduciary problems of project
implementation.


(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Despite the major weaknesses in government policy follow-up described above, the project did achieve its
physical targets in a difficult political work environment. Still, this would not have been possible without
the change away from the poorest districts as of 2007.


6.       Lessons Learned

             a. try to maintain Bank staff continuity during project design and implementation to avoid
                  the loss of institutional memory and to maintain a close relationship with the client
             b. do not include policy components in investment projects carried out by one agency which
                  are the responsibility of other agencies
             c. ensure early, realistic, and professional arrangements for impact evaluation
             d. do not underestimate the need for early, substantial, and quality beneficiary community
                  and agency training
             e. even in quite traditional and centralized government systems, community-based micro-
                  project processing leads to community confidence building and, thus, more successful
                  and sustainable outputs
             f.   purely technical agencies such as USIF can play a useful role as inter-agency
                  coordinators, but policy implementation is then up to the responsible line agencies




                                                      17

           g. delivery capacities for social services such as USIF are always relevant but they should
               be operationally efficient and flexible enough to shrink in times of economic prosperity
               and expand as needed during a crisis.




7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies

[Annex 7 and 8]


(b) Cofinanciers

N.A.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N.A.




                                                   18

                                 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a)      Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage of
             Components                                           Estimate (USD
                                          (USD millions)                                      Appraisal
                                                                      millions)
1. COMMUNITY-BASED
                                                63.2                     55.1                      87
MICRO-PROJECTS
2. CAPACITY BUILDING                             1.6                      1.3                      81
3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT,
MONITORING AND                                   4.0                      6.5                     162
EVALUATION

                Total Baseline Cost             68.9                     62.9                      91

Physical Contingencies
                                                 0.6

Price Contingencies
                                                 0.1
                Total Project Costs             69.6                     62.9                      90
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.5                      0.5                     100
         Total Financing Required               70.1                     63.4                      90




(b)      Financing
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                               Type of                                          Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                    Estimate         Estimate
                                             Cofinancing                                          Appraisal
                                                            (USD millions)(USD millions)
Borrower                                    donation            10.0                7.4              74
Local Communities                           donation              9.9               6.2              63
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                            loan                50.2              49.8*              99
and Development
* Difference with original loan amount due to US$0.4 million foreign exchange rate loss on special accounts; cost
to be borne by Government.




                                                     19

                                    Annex 2. Outputs by Component



A.      Community-Based Micro-Projects Component (actual cost US$55.1 million):

(i)     community-based services micro-projects in the two poorest districts of each of the country's 25
        regions
(ii)    targeted social care services micro-projects in two regions and two cities (Kiev and Sevastopol)

The results of this component were to be measured by: (i) the increased number of good quality, cost-
effective services operational in targeted areas, maintained and financially sustainable two years after the
USIF investment (at least 450 communal services and 50 social care services micro-projects) and (ii)
increased participation of NGOs, CBOs, and local communities in decision making and management of
community and social care services, as measured by the proportion of participating communities initiating
new activities after the USIF and the number of user associations active two years after the project
investment (at least 400 user associations, CBOs active, and new activities initiated).

At the project's completion, 676 communal services micro-projects were completed (373 schools and
kindergartens, 59 community cultural centers, 47 health posts, 28 roads, 155 for water supply, eight for
environmental improvement, and six others). Also , 80 social care services micro-projects were completed
(six crisis intervention centers, eight early intervention centers, 15 day care centers, three community
centers, 16 day centers with labor rehabilitation, two hospices, 13 shelters, five for supported independent
living, and 12 for social support). This was a significant achievement, and both well beyond the original
targets of 450 community service micro-projects and 50 social care services micro-projects. The
communal services sub-component was implemented in 78 districts in 25 regions (compared to the
originally agreed 50 districts); it cost US$48.2 million (including training), and had about one million
beneficiaries. The social care services sub-component was implemented in six regions (compared to the
originally agreed four); this included Kiev. It cost US$6.9 million (including training), and had about
75,000 beneficiaries.

The number of established users' associations under the project was 487, again well beyond the target of
400 associations. The percentage of participating communities which had initiated subsequent new micro-
project activities without USIF participation amounted to 85 percent. Furthermore, Bank task team site
visits confirmed that micro-project processing contributed to partnerships of leaders among parents, social
service professionals, and NGO staff with local governments. Both of these points seem to endorse the
beneficiaries' empowerment.

Progress on an additional outcome indicator (introduced in 2007) was also substantial. The indicator was
to measure the fall in morbidity rate following implementation of micro-projects related to health (health
centers, schools if heating was involved, and potable water). A recent study showed a decrease by 17.5
percent in morbidity in project areas.

In assessing this component, it should also be mentioned that (i) the 28 additional districts approved for
project support in 2007 were selected on the basis of "first come/first serve", and thus did not contribute
to the project's poverty targeting objective; (ii) in early-2008, four consultants who evaluated community
training funded under the Japanese Grant were quite critical of the effort's planning and management,
indicating that the project's capacity building outcome may have been much less than originally
projected; (iii) in mid-2008, the international consultants who carried out an audit of the processing and




                                                       20

quality of a sample of 12 micro-projects noted various quality issues; and (iv) in the absence of a reliable
and comprehensive impact assessment, the project outcome cannot be substantiated.

Still, based on the agreed performance indicators, the ICR team considers that the implementation of this
component is Moderately Satisfactory. The poorest and neediest districts were covered (although other
districts also obtained support since 2007), a much larger than projected number of community-based
micro-projects were completed, and new concepts of community involvement were promoted.


B.       Capacity Building in Social Care Policies Component (actual cost US$1.3 million):

         (i)     formulation, monitoring and evaluation
         (ii)    region/city/district authorities
         (iii)   communities and local self-government

The results of this component were to be measured by (i) development of national and regional plans for
social care services, incorporating targeting and service provision models developed by the project and
(ii) dissemination of annual evaluation reports starting in December 2003.


The component's implementation was substantially delayed. Implementation had to await a capacity
needs assessment of central and regional government institutions, which was only completed in early-
2005. The component, once started, provided for substantial training; organized 75 conferences, round
tables, workshops, and study tours, and helped train 1,269 social care providers and trainers in the
targeted regions. The component also provided for a great number of policy studies, and helped develop
four regional plans for sustainable social care services, as well as draft 23 national plans. However, in
spite of these activities, none of the targeting and service provision models used by USIF were
incorporated into the national or regional plans by the responsible central government agencies. No
additional effort has been made to incorporate the lessons of the project.

In addition, only one annual evaluation took place at the closing of the project (see Annex 3), thus not
providing any opportunity for results-based feedback during project implementation.

Based on the agreed performance indicators, the ICR team considers that the implementation of this
component is Moderately Unsatisfactory. Despite the substantial efforts by USIF in more recent years, it
did not lead to the introduction and implementation of official new social care policies, as was intended
under the project:

C.       Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation Component (actual cost US$6.5 million):

         (i)     institutional support to USIF
         (ii)    monitoring and evaluation
         (iii)   public information

This component provided for substantial USIF management support, including for the continued
operation and strengthening of USIF headquarters in Kiev and eight regional offices. It also supported a
well-functioning MIS and an impact assessment in 2008. However, this is much less than required under
the Loan Agreement; the latter mentions that USIF shall:          (a) once every two years, carry out a
procurement and technical review of 20 percent of the micro-projects that have been completed; and (b)
annually carry out a beneficiary impact assessment. As a result of insufficient monitoring, there seems to
have been little project implementation feed-back, and there are now no reliable, independently confirmed
project outcome data.



                                                      21

It is noted that, because of the frequent changes in government and the position of USIF executive
director, USIF management had to deal with a quite difficult work environment, but was still able to
produce a substantial output and full disbursement of the Loan by the initially agreed closing date. Still,
the costs of this component were well over budget (US$6.5 million compared to the projected US$4.0
million). Therefore, on balance, the ICR team considers that the implementation of this component is
Moderately Unsatisfactory.




                                                  22

                                Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                                    (including assumptions in the analysis)


As in most social development projects, it is difficult to provide an overall project economic and financial
analysis because of the difficulty of quantifying the benefits in the absence of the necessary data. Even if
data regarding the unit costs were available, the relevance of comparison is not that meaningful, due to
the diversity of micro-project types and the local conditions where they are implemented.

As far as this project is concerned, the PAD did mention that a cost-effectiveness study would be carried
out after the first year of project implementation. This would be based on pilot micro-projects, and would
be compared with similar public and NGO programs, as well as the costs of residential institutional care
as appropriate. However, USIF management did not wish to implement this, and the study never took
place.

It also should be noted that, although USIF was supposed to produce bi-annual procurement and technical
reviews of 20 percent of the completed micro-projects, and annual beneficiary impact assessments, it
completed no procurement and technical reviews and only one beneficiary assessment at the very end, in
mid-2008 (see annex 4). In addition, an impact assessment of community training provided for under the
Japanese Grant is to be carried out shortly.

The average cost per micro-project (both communal service and social care) mentioned in the PAD was
US$60,000. At project completion, the cost of the 756 micro-projects amounted to US$55.1 million, or
about US$73,000 per micro-project.




                                                     23

           Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a)     Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
              Names                         Title                   Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
 Lending
  Galina Sotirova           Task Team Leader                      ECSHD Task Team Leader
  Yelena Fadeyeva           Operations Officer                    ECSHD Operations
  Anush Bezhanyan           SIF Expert                            ECSHD Social Investment
  Kartina Mostipan          Procurement Specialist                ECSPS Procurement
  Hiran Heart               Financial Management Specialist       ECSPS Financial Management
  Annie Milanzi             Programt Assistant                    ECSHD Program Assistant
  Sidonie Jocktane          Programt Assistant                    ECSHD Program Assistant
  Gagik Khatcharian         Consultant                            ECSHD Consultant


 Supervision/ICR
  Irina Babich                Financial Management Specialist      ECSPS Financial Management
  Alexei Ionascu              Operations Analyst                  ECSHD Operations
  Hideki Mori                 Sr. Social Protection Specialist.   ECSHD Task Team Leader
  Menahem M. Prywes           Senior Economist                    ECSHD Task Team Leader
  Katerina Rybalchenko        Consultant                          ECSHD Consultant
  Irina Shmeliova             Procurement Analyst                  ECSPS Procurement
  Yuliya Smolyar              Social Protection Specialist        ECSHD Social Protection
  Alexandru Ursul             Consultant                          ECSHD Consultant
  Anna L Wielogorska          Sr. Procurement Spec.                ECSPS Procurement
  Anna Goodman                Program Assistant                   ECSHD Program Assistant
  Oksana Mrtsenyuk-Kukharuk   Program Assistant                   ECCUA Program Assistant
  Oksana Sadauskyenye         Program Assistant                   ECCUA Program Assistant
  Katerina Timina             Program Assistant                   ECCUA Program Assistant


(b)     Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
 Stage of Project Cycle                                                 USD Thousands
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                               (incl. travel and consultant costs)
 Lending
    FY00                                            7                        7.99
    FY01                                          50                      216.43

                              Total:              57                      224.42
 Supervision/ICR
    FY02                                          23                      218.70
    FY03                                          40                      130.67
    FY04                                          32                      112.36
    FY05                                          46                      139.92
    FY06                                          35                      111.15
    FY07                                          21                      104.20
    FY08                                          28                      128.57

                              Total:             225                      945.57


                                              24

                                    Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Background

According to the Loan Agreement, USIF was to carry out annual beneficiary impact assessments.. During
project implementation, no beneficiary assessment was officially furnished to the Bank. However, by the
end of the project, USIF made an effort to evaluate the project's impact. According to USIF, an individual
consultant was hired to propose a methodology for conducting and carrying out such a study. Based on
this report, which became available to the Bank (no official submission was made to the task team
leader), it is not possible to assess the quality of the methodology and sample design. Therefore, the
value of its results is unclear. The report and its background materials suggest that some elements of
beneficiary assessment were included in the study, and that the surveys covered both individuals and
institutions at different levels of project implementation, i.e., local, regional and central ones. According
to USIF, surveys were carried out by its staff, and in some instances employees of the facilities supported
through micro-projects were also involved. The USIF staff was also engaged in analysis of survey
results, though the final report was put together by the above-mentioned individual consultant. In addition
to the survey, the report covers some administrative data furnished by local authorities.

Within the framework of assessment of the community-based micro-projects (Part A of the project), two
sets of surveys were conducted to examine beneficiaries of communal services micro-projects
(component 1.1) and social services micro-projects (component 1.2). The summary below follows the
structure of the USIF report, and highlights findings and information that appear to be most relevant to
the beneficiary assessment exercise.

Communal service micro-projects

An assessment was done in 36 micro-projects or 5 percent of the total 676 micro-projects completed
under this component. The survey covered 861 respondents, including 814 representatives of local
communities where micro-projects were implemented and 47 representatives of local authorities of these
communities. It was conducted in 6 geographically dispersed regions of Ukraine, i.e., Volynska,
Khmelnytska, Luganska, Cherkaska, Khersonska regions and the Autonomic Republic of Crimea (ARC).
These 36 represented all types of infrastructure supported by USIF, while the sample was not fully
consistent with the typological structure of the portfolio of such micro-projects.

Seventy-nine percent of the surveyed community members appeared to be involved in the micro-projects,
either directly or indirectly contributing to their implementation. However, an even higher percentage ­
80 percent - confirmed that the living conditions improved in their community as a result of the project
activities.

Over 50 percent of the surveyed attested that the community was maintaining their micro-project after its
completion within the project cycle; and even more community members recognized improved
sustainability of the micro-projects. The reasons mentioned in this respect were changes in the behavioral
pattern of community members due to individual contributions and, thus, more careful exploitation of the
facilities, the importance of the infrastructure built/renovated for community livelihood (especially with
respect to water supply micro-projects), and the human development role of facilities (health
centers/schools). At the same time, all of the representatives of the local authorities pointed out that the
micro-projects were being maintained and that some of these even enhanced their capacity.




                                                      1

Less that 20 percent of the community members appeared to have participated in any training. On
balance, the majority of the local officials were trained and turned out to be satisfied with the quality of
learning activities. However, community representatives acknowledged that their involvement into USIF
activities on the ground had contributed to developing some skills (in building techniques, documentation
processing, fund rising methods, events organization, etc) and to receiving some knowledge. It was
reported that the experience proved to be helpful in routine life and in relations with local authorities.
There were also negative experiences quoted by the surveyed. These had to do with unprofessional
project design and communication problems.

Proof of improved community participation and empowerment is not so obvious. Sixty-four percent of the
surveyed community members reported that their community participated in the decision making process
before implementation of micro-projects. It is not clear though whether this involvement meant to be
before the USIF project or at the initiation stage when decisions related to launching particular micro-
projects were taken. However, the rate of positive replies with respect to continued involvement of the
community in making decisions was lower ­ at 60 percent. In contrast, almost all local authority
representatives were positive about participation of citizens in local governments` decisions.

Finally, slightly more than 50 percent of respondents considered their communities capable of resolving
social problems on the ground; most of those emphasized, however, that the capacity to do so was
insufficient. At the same time, twenty-four percent of the surveyed denied such a capacity at a community
level.

Social service micro-projects

Beneficiary assessment of this sub-component covered 426 consumers of services provided in 18 micro-
projects (22 percent of the total number) and 135 staff providing these services. At the time of assessment
the selected micro-projects had been operational over 7 months. Such an approach allowed a better
understanding of quality of services in fully operating facilities, while it limited the sample to two regions
­ Khmelnitska and Kharkivska -- where activities were launched early in the project cycle. As far as
typology of the services is concerned, the micro-projects sample encompasses almost all forms of care
provided within the USIF portfolio. In particular, these include community centers for service provision
to the disabled, the elderly, vulnerable children and families, community-based hostels for disabled,
mobile teams for early intervention and reaching out with services, volunteer programs, etc. In addition to
surveying, the USIF assembled feedback from local authorities and administrative information evidencing
positive results of some micro-projects.

Importantly, according to the survey statistics, the sample raises doubts about the accuracy of service
targeting. The extremely poor and perhaps in highest risk of exclusion (not enough to buy food) represent
12 percent of the surveyed beneficiaries; another 47 percent seem to fit into the Ukrainian poverty pattern
as well (enough for food but cannot afford many more), while 41 percent of beneficiaries do not.
Therefore, the micro-projects seem to lack a focus on developing outreach functions.

Beneficiaries` feedback with regard to quality and accessibility of social services provided by USIF
supported facilities is mostly positive. Specifically, over 90 percent of the surveyed community members
found the quality of the received services acceptable. It is worth mentioning that the overwhelming
majority of the respondents who had been clients of the social care centers before USIF's intervention (17
percent of the surveyed) pointed out improvement in quality of services as micro-projects were
implemented. While providing an explanation of better quality, the clients mostly emphasized improved
physical conditions of facilities, refurbishments and more and better auxiliaries. In some cases this led to
a broader range of services and/or more comprehensive aid that was provided in the set-ups. More staff
and improved qualification of social workers was also mentioned.



                                                       2

The service providers seem to have established good coordination with other social services and to
employ referral assistance. Although sixty-nine percent of the survey participants were given the type of
assistance they looked for and 63 percent confirmed that their cases were resolved with the help of
community centers, in some 10 percent of instances services were not received and/or were not
satisfactory. Most of such clients (87 percent) were given guidance on where relevant services were
available. The service quality complaints mainly addressed inconvenient location or working hours of the
center and lack of necessary equipment there.

According to the institutions survey, over 90 percent of the staff involved in service provision participated
in learning events organized in the course of micro-projects implementation, most of these being training
programs. The usefulness of events in general and training and study tours in particular is rated fairly
high. Over 80 percent of the staff have relevant education background. At the same time, 77 percent of
the respondents acknowledged that they need additional training.

Low wages seems to be major staff concern, leading to the high turnover: almost 20 percent of the
surveyed thought about changing their job mostly for this reason. It is interesting, though, that "the
possibility to be beneficial to the society" was the most quoted motive for working in social care center.




                                                      3

        Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N.A.




                              4

               Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy of Ukraine has reviewed the ICR and provided comments as
follows.

The ICR would benefit from the findings of the Final Project Performance Report currently being
approved by the Government. Specifically, the latter contains results of the project impact evaluation
study conducted by USIF in mid-2008 that would have served as a good basis for assessment of project
outcomes.

The ministry has conceded to the ratings of achievement of parts 1 and 2 of the PDO. At the same time,
assessment of the 3rd part­assisting reform of social protection by creating models of targeting and service
provision­is not grounded well enough. There is a number of local, regional, and national documents that
can prove attainment of this objective. In particular, at sub-national level the project has contributed to the
following policies and programs. In Kharkiv oblast these are several mid-term strategies for mapping out
community-based social care services at regional, rayon, and city levels as well as numerous programs
addressing reform of large-scale resident institutions (internats), family support, development of
community centers, establishment of social hospices, support to orphans graduated from internats, etc.
Oblast authorities in Khmelnitsky have approved program for social protection in 2007-2010 and
increased budget for its implementation to maintain new facilities established under the project. Pavlograd
rayon authorities in Dnipropetrovsk oblast have adopted strategy for development of social care services,
program for social protection of the most vulnerable rayon citizens and program for social adaptation of
the disabled. In addition, Sida grant supported launching two resource centers in Khmelnitskiy and Lviv
oblasts which maintain data-base of social care providers.

At national level, based on the experience of 12 micro-projects, the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
adopted a number of regulations to roll out new organizational and functional arrangements for residential
care. The ministry has also developed an action plan for improving quality of social care services
provided in residential institutions for children in 2009. In addition, the USIF has contributed to
developing procedure for licensing of care providers and setting up system of standards for social care
services provision. The licensing requirements have been endorsed by the joint order of the ministry and
the State Committee for Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Moreover, the experience gained in the
micro-projects has been reflected in the curriculum of training for social workers used by the ministry's
training center. The above list of project knowledge sharing and policy inputs is not exhaustive.

To summarize, while contributing to various policy developments mentioned above the USIF has laid a
basis for reform of social care services. Therefore its performance in this respect deserves more positive
rating.

A part of the report addressing Overall Borrower Performance requires some clarification as regards
selection and implementation of second round micro-projects. The first round micro-projects were
selected based on the originally agreed criteria. It was at the time of the first round that the USIF
implemented 613 micro-projects and, hence, exceeded the original performance indicator. Therefore,
opening the project for the rest of Ukraine was not to top up to the target value. It was meant to roll out
positive experience gained during the first round. Additional micro-projects were selected based on pro-
poor criteria agreed with the Bank and the USIF Supervisory Board. Specifically, selection was done
among the communities whose taxation capacity was below the average taxation capacity of the rayon
they belong to. The cost of second round micro-projects made up 5.6% of the total cost of sub-component
1.1. So the additional micro-projects have not caused substantial increase in project expenses, nor have
they contributed to meeting the original goal of 600 micro-projects.


                                                      5

The performance of the implementing agency is proposed to be upgraded to `moderately satisfactory`. As
opposed to what is mentioned in the report with regard to the USIF`s monitoring and evaluation practices,
it is worth noting that procurement and technical reviews of 20 percent of the completed micro-projects
were conducted twice i.e. in 2006 and 2008. Respective reports were submitted to the Bank in due course.
Impact evaluation was carried out at the end of the project. The USIF`s regional consultants monitored
progress on development of communities` capacity and reported the results to the executive office on
monthly basis.




                                                   6

                Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
                                              Expert Opinion
                        Impact evaluation of the Project Social Investment Fund
 «Favoring Reform of Social Services by Creating Innovative Models of Social Services and Capacity
                                                  Building»

The prepared Report on Project Impact Evaluation provides complete information on the expected and
unexpected results of the project, quantitative indices and qualitative characteristics of the performed
activity, positive aspects of evaluation. The report provides key conclusions on the achieved results, as
well as further viability of introduced processes of social services reforming, capacity building,
microprojects and innovative models; it proves high successfulness and effectiveness of the Project.

The sources base is grounded, corresponds to criteria of fullness and sufficiency, it covers all components
of the very project and the tasks of the Evaluation. The provided annexes support the description of the
results and evaluation; demonstrate activity and results of special polling. The report vividly demonstrates
great number of materials of the current monitoring that allowed to use economically effective strategy of
methodology for making the evaluation.

The report on impact evaluation is logically structured, it includes description of evaluation methodology,
provides sufficient arguments of results of activity and evaluation, it has conclusions and
recommendations. In predominant majority of parts, the impact evaluation is clearly described and
descriptively laid out (the part 3 is most successful).

The final version of the Report takes into account interim recommendations aimed at eliminating some
shortcomings of the Report and strengthening key conclusions and strategic recommendations.

Taking into account the considerable result of the Project and the positive impact, it is appropriate also to
prepare short generalized recommendations for the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy that would be
based on the conclusions, achievements and problems of the project implementation. They should be not
only to preserve the achieved and continuation of activity but for broaden reproduction of the positive
experience both at the level of the regions of the project activity and in other regions.

I believe it is appropriate to recommend organizing the public presentation of the results of the Project
activity, including the impact evaluation.

It is reasonable for the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy to prepare the handbook with the samples of
the best experience of the results of activity of micro-projects and innovative projects, samples of current
activity monitoring, samples of methodology and instruments of impact evaluation.

  .Balakiryeva
Head of Department of Monitoring Researches of Social-Economic Transformations of Institute of
Economy and Forecasting of National Academy of Science of Ukraine Candidate of Social Science

Conclusions of Impact Evaluation Report

Conclusions to Component 1.1.

According to the strategic goal, the project activity in the regions favored creating conditions for solving
some social and municipal problems at the level of local communities by the way of preparing and
implementing microprojects on improving quality of social and municipal services in rural areas.


                                                       7

The Project ,,Social Investment Fund" made economic impact, in particular:

         ·  more than 1 000 000 beneficiaries benefited from the implemented sites;
         ·  from 5 to 20% of the estimated cost of each microproject were saved;
         ·  local entrepreneurial sector was strengthened and more than 8 000 permanent and temporary
            working places in poor local communities were created (see Final Project Report);
         ·  more than 9,000,000 USD were additionally attracted (apart from project activity).

The Project "Social Investment Fund" had impact on social capital. This includes:

         ·  involving communities into decision making, co-financing and distributing of resources, that
            in its turn favored community development and responsibility for the problems determined by
            them;
         ·  forming social capital of village communities as a prerequisite to the stable social-economic
            and cultural development;
         ·  85 percent of communities started new activity (see Final Report of Project);
         ·  samples of cooperation of communities with different funds and projects.

The Project ,,Social Investment Fund" had impact on existing structures and public sector of
administration by:

          ·   creating non-governmental public unions, in particular 486 during the whole period of the
              Project implementation (see Final Report of Project);
          ·   involving community representatives into making joint decisions during and after
              microproject implementation.

The Project "Social Investment Fund" had impact on improving quality of community life, in
particular:

         ·   improving conditions of providing medical, educational services, improving access to them;
         ·   increase of number of users (especially it can be seen in the micro-projects on educational,
             cultural and medical services);
         ·   due to renovation and construction of water pipelines the quality of drinking water and access
             to it was improved;
         ·   conditions for providing cultural services were improved: cultural events were organized,
             clubs of amateur performances started their work;
         ·   the level of population morbidity decreased by 16,6 percent at the average (see annexes to
             the Final Report);
         ·   construction and rehabilitation of sites of sewerage and environment protection improved the
             ecological situation in the regions of sites implementation.

According to the results of the research in six oblasts of Ukraine, it was found that the local government
of Volyn and Cherkasy oblast has the biggest potential, and communities of Volyn and Lugansk oblast
have biggest potential.

Government representatives believe that the Project roused communities. People became more active in
initiating and participating in solving social problems. Unfortunately, not all communities have potential,
motivations for creating users associations and involving additional funds. Polling results show that some
communities still now hope for outside help.



                                                       8

However, the majority of respondents said that they use experience received during the Project
implementation. In particular, for starting own business and in further work to implement local initiatives.
The received experience helped to change the world outlook, life position and united communities around
general problems.

Unexpected impact includes decrease in morbidity level that was noticed after implementation of micro-
projects that were completed by the end of 2006. That's why the new indicator ­ "morbidity level" was
added to the determined indicators.



In such a way, we believe that that the main tasks of the component were achieved and that activity of
the Project positively influenced capacity building of communities in solving urgent problems at local
level.

Conclusions to Component 1.2.

Viability of microprojects. Preparing microprojects to implementation, as final evaluations of their cost
prove, plans of further viability were formed, they supplemented technical and financial evaluation of
each microproject. Viability plans stipulate system of measures aimed at providing further existence and
development of service/site created during microproject implementation. They also include information
about periodicity of performing measures and persons responsible for their performing.

Viability plans are aimed at strengthening of local initiatives and broadening of achieving goals of the
Project ,,Social Investment Fund" by implementing innovative models and achieving synergetic effect.

All micro-projects that were approved for implementation had appropriately registered premises,
available guarantee letters from bodies of local government confirming further support and financing of
created innovative models. Of 18 micro-projects selected for the evaluation, 10 Implementation Agencies
could not solve the problem of lack of staff number. It can be explained by deficit of budget funds.

This problem was the most critical in the micro-project      4-63-00-158 "Island of Hope", Krupyansk city
of Kharkiv oblast. According to requirements of the design of this micro-project, to satisfy needs of
Krypyansk city and the rajon, it is necessary to confirm 34 staff persons on regular appointments, but only
23 were confirmed. However, it does not prove the low viability of the micro-project, but proves that the
created center at this time can not satisfy existing problems of the community in services for children
from crises families. Concerning the micro-project         2-68-00-012 the House of group residence for
young disabled with mental disease "Family Coziness", here the work was started with the first model ­
the day work of people with mental diseases, and development of services of temporary care was planned
for later time. In other micro-projects, lack of 1-3 persons is connected with differences in typical lists of
staff members and it is necessary changes to be introduced into typical regulations. Currently, the
organizations find way out by involving specialists from volunteers and specialists from other
organizations on contract bases.

Analyses of all provided reporting documents proves that, designs of innovative social services were
implemented without drastic derivations ­ the staff was trained, equipment was procured, premises were
prepared, planned services were fully formed, prevailing majority of sites is kept by local budgets; four
objects of 18 that have status of non-governmental organizations are financed according to the program
principle using elements of social commissioning of local government. Besides, many organizations were
trained how to attract additional resources. So, after completion of implementation of microprojects that
were selected for the evaluation, additionally 2 million 607 thousand UAH were involved. The sources



                                                      9

of additional resources are international projects and funds ,,East-West", DFID, USID-Ukraine,
Renaissance Foundations, ,,Partnership without borders", as well as Fund of Social Protection of
Disabled, programs of local budgets and funds from charitable events, fairs and contributions of citizens.

Viability of the sites is also favored by the net of partners that was created for development of
qualitative, and most adequate services for satisfaction of needs of the target groups. Each micro-project
received trainings on partnership with assistance of the Swedish SIDA agency. All micro-projects formed
partner net that is proved by the cooperation agreement that were signed.

Micro-projects on innovative social services created new requirements to functional responsibilities,
prompted introducing changes in lists of staff members not only in the part of increasing number of staff
but in involving new specialists. According to the results of the research, local budget not always found
money to satisfy new requirements. That's why the issue on supporting viability of the created innovative
models is still urgent.

Based on the abovementioned, it can be indicated that innovative social services micro-projects:

         ·   had influence on quality of life of social services users,
         ·   formed policy of social services in quality management,
         ·   created base for introducing state standards of quality into existing practice,
         ·   introduced mechanisms to form services that are adequate to needs of vulnerable population
             groups (development of designs and mechanisms of implementing of USIF micro-projects),
         ·   determined borders of social services,
         ·   favored development of professional competence of social services providers,
         ·   formed requirements to staff that has to be involved into work with vulnerable groups of
             clients,
         ·   favored consideration of non-governmental organizations as equivalent partners in providing
             social services (social commissioning in Kharkiv city),
         ·   demonstrated ability to involve additional resources.

Micro-projects on innovative social services were pilot grounds and created base for development and
approbation of standards of quality of social services. Basing on experience of micro-projects, eleven
project standards were formed, currently they together with the created within the framework of
innovative micro-projects system of administration of quality of social services are approbated in the
functioning social institutions.

That's why innovative models of social services can be considered samples and recommended for
implementing into practice for studying social sphere by specialists, as well as use to train students of the
corresponding universities.

By creating of sufficient number of services for vulnerable groups of population at the community level
in pilot oblasts, it was reached the demonstrative effect from implementation of models of innovative
social services that is one of the strong sides of project impact.

The important result of implementing micro-projects on innovative social services is economical effect.
Though this research was not aimed at evaluating economical effect, however it is obvious, that such
important outcomes as decrease of institualisation; integration of people with special needs into
community life, to educational institutions, labor market; providing physically disabled people with
ability to work, creating conditions for independent life, opening care institutions (allowing parents of
children with special needs to work), i.e. increasing independence and creating conditions to live in



                                                      10

ordinary conditions ­ all this decreases financial loading on system of social protection.

Creating model of social services is a part of process of reforming of social services system that provides
further continuation of care for vulnerable groups of population.

It should be mentioned that implementation of innovative micro-projects and determining outcomes of
their activities was complicated by low level of political stability almost at all stages. Often changes of
managers of key ministries and delays from the side of local government in providing co-financing due to
lack of necessary mechanisms, unfortunately, did not favor fast implementation of innovative models. It
put away terms of making important for reform decisions and did not give possibility for longer time to
track changes that took place after influence of implementing innovative social services.

Conclusions to Component 2

Political context, in particular often changes of Government, caused high level of risks for Project
implementation, in particular in part of favoring of reform of social services system.

The made analyses demonstrates that by 2005 there was no vivid and successive strategy of the
Government concerning system of social services, in particular its reforming. It underlines the fact that
there was a necessity to develop the conceptual, strategic governmental document that would determine
priorities of development of social services system in Ukraine, in particular improving methods and
approaches of management of such system.

Retrospective analyses of state of system of social services in Ukraine and impact evaluation of the
project on this system that were made, they allow to make a conclusion about the considerable impact of
the Project on the reform of social services in Ukraine.

Within the frameworks of the Project during 2006-2008, 21 draft documents were developed (of them
there are 11 drafts of standards for different social services). Specialists of the project also provided
proposals to introduce changes into Laws of Ukraine ,,On Social Services", ,,On State Social Standards
and State Social Guarantees", concerning license conditions for professional activity on providing social
services, the Budget Code, the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of 13 December 2006          1719, as
well as the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers ,,On remuneration of workers on the base of the single
tariff net of categories and coefficients on payment to workers of institutions and organizations of
separate branches of budget sphere", the Strategy of Social Development to 2011, and the National action
plan on implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.

By the end of the research (1 August 2008), of 21 developed draft documents, the Government adopted
two of them: the Concept of reforming of system of social services in Ukraine (April 2007) and Action
plan on implementation of the conception of reforming of system of social services in Ukraine by 2012
(July 2008). Implementation of many measures of the `capacity building' component was finished at the
end of the Project that greatly limited number of approved by the Government and implemented
groundwork of the Project, because one needs time to introduce changes into normative-legislative base.
Impact from this activity can be evaluated completely not earlier than in at least two years.

There is a number of the adopted documents which drafts were not developed directly within the
frameworks of the Project but the Project influenced their content, development or approval in this or that
way.

In such a way, the activity of the Project influenced the adoption of the framework Law of Ukraine on
social services (Law of Ukraine ,,On Social Services"), the strategic document that determines the



                                                     11

conceptual bases of reforming of this sphere and the action plan for its implementation; the Government
activity program (2008) in the part of social services, as well as the governmental documents regulating
involvement of organizations of public community to providing social services, introducing quality
management, improving social payments, providing services on the competition base for the cost of
budget funds, as well as a number of departmental decisions of the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
that regulate providing of social services.

The made research proved impact of all developments of the Project ,,Social Investment Fund" on the
national policy and reforming of social services system. However, the biggest influence was from the
Conception of Reforming of Social Services System, the action plan for its implementation, innovative
models of social services, the draft of the Order of development and approval of standards of social
services, drafts of standards for different social services.

The Conception of Reforming of Social Services System had the biggest influence on the reform, its
draft was developed within the frameworks of the Project ,,Social Investment Fund", it became the first
governmental document that determined the conceptual basis and priorities of development of social
services system. Development and approval of this document greatly speeded up forming by central
bodies of the executive power policy of reforming of system of social services in Ukraine, that is why it
had the biggest influence (and it continues to influence) on the state policy of social protection and social
servicing of vulnerable categories of population.

There is also a considerable influence of the Project from implementing innovative models of social
services that was marked by forming qualitatively new approaches to social work in general and forming
of services model in the community. For the first time the Project developed and introduced into practice
the concept ,,design of services" as the structured and systematized document that included description of
the very services and necessary conditions for their implementation. Using of such systematized and
structured description as well as publication of handbooks of innovative models undoubtedly favored
distribution of experience of innovative models for other organizations. Innovative models also
influenced normative-methodological documents.

It should be also mentioned, that the Project had also impact on start of process of implementation of
standardization into the sphere of social services, as well as quality management. Though, the Order of
development and approval of standards of social services, that was developed within the frameworks of
the Project "SIF", was not adopted officially, but according to this document 25 drafts of standards were
developed (11 of them within the Project ,,SIF"). The draft of the State Standard "Requirements to
quality of providing of social services. General provisions" was included into the part 4.4 ,,Provision of
social services" of the Draft of the State social standard of Ukraine ,,the System of administration of
quality of providing social services. Requirements", that had wide practical approbation and has been
prepared for submission and approval. This document determines approach to introducing quality
management, determines requirements to system of management of quality of social services provision,
that is a component of the system of complex management of social services provision.

It should also noted that there was the impact of activity on capacity building of specialists of national and
local levels. Though within the frameworks of the Project, the limited number of documents of national
level was developed, great number of normative documents, proposals to normative-law base was made
under influence of activity of the capacity building project. While evaluating all scope of developments, it
should be noted that we took into account only answers of experts that took part in pooling, however,
apart from them, many other specialist were present at events on capacity building.

There is also a positive impact on programs and policy at the local level. During 2005-2008, in pilot
regions, a number of new programs and decisions on social services was adopted.



                                                       12

There was a positive influence on the state of vulnerable groups in pilot regions of implementation of
innovative social services. In general, the Project ,,SIF" managed to cover great number of vulnerable
groups and having evaluated their needs to offer qualitative services. The pilot regions approved
considerable number of social programs aimed at improving of life of vulnerable groups of population.
According to all polled local experts, investments of the Project in this or that way correspond to needs of
vulnerable groups in the region.

Under the influence of the Project, there was increase in the level of involvement of representatives of
vulnerable groups of population, receivers of social services, non-governmental organizations into
decision-making on development of social services in the region. Community members became more
active in solving local social problems.

The Project has successfully coordinated activity on favoring the reform of social services in Ukraine at
the national level by the interdepartmental working group on implementation of the Law of Ukraine ,,On
Social services" (Working group), at local level ­ through oblast advisory expert groups.

The Project has successfully coordinated activity on favoring the reform of social services in Ukraine by
involving the wide circle of participants into development of drafts of documents (conceptions, standards,
methodologies).

There is also impact of the Project on change of the structure of institutions and services in pilot regions
as well as at the national level. The national and regional bodies of the executive power formed structural
departments on social services issues, approved number of normative documents at the national level.
There were changes in structure of institutions and services at the local level. Organizations started the
great number of new services as the result of implementation of innovative micro-projects on their base.

The Project influenced implementation of new management methodologies at the local level, at the level
of organizations, as well as intentions of the Government concerning implementation of such
methodologies and approaches at the national level. Approval of local strategies and programs of
development of social services is available examples of using in pilot regions strategic planning. There
was impact on practice of providing services in pilot regions by introducing individual approach to the
client (evaluation of individual needs was introduced as well as forming of individual plans of clients, and
accompanying client case), as well as improving of organizations management by introducing quality
management and standards at organization level.

The results of the research convincingly prove the impact of the Project on the social capital. The research
also proved usefulness of organized measures, their impact on increase of qualification and practical use
of experience and knowledge received during participation in the events of the project, including
development of normative documents at the national and local level, and introducing of innovations into
the practice of social services provision. The research can also prove the impact of the Project on
programs of staff training and dissemination of experience by educational events. The received
knowledge and experience were used for preparing and holding thematic trainings, some of them were
included into the branch programs of refresher trainings and training programs. The research found the
influence on increase of qualification of those specialists that were not involved into the project directly,
as well as disseminating of experience to organizations from other regions. Within the frameworks of the
project, 79 trainers from the number of providers of social services were trained, they in their turn
organize trainings, invite to their organizations specialists for sharing experience. The Project has
prepared and published 10 handbooks of methodological materials and documents that will influence
dissemination of experience and developments of the project even after it is completed. In such a way the
Project did not have the task to introduce changes into the programs of specialists trainings or influence



                                                     13

the very system of trainings. The made evaluation proves that there is unexpected influence of the Project
on structure and content of the program of training of specialists of both academic educational institutions
and departmental refresher training structures.

Prevailing majority of experts of the national level recognized the impact of the Project on the processes
of reforming of social services system. As one expert mentioned, "the activity of the Social Investment
Fund was noticeable in the sphere of social policy of Ukraine". Besides, the experts believe that activity
in this direction should continue.




                                                    14

                           Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.  PAD, Ukraine Social Investment Fund Project, World Bank, October 31, 2001.

2.  Quality at Entry Assessment, World Bank, May 16, 2002.

3.  CAS, Ukraine, World Bank, August 16, 2000.

4.  QSA panel repot August 2004.
45. CAS Progress Report for FY 2004-2007, Ukraine, World Bank, May 19, 2005.

6.  CPS for FY08-11, Ukraine, World Bank, November 8, 2007.

7.  USIF Operational Manual, October 2001.

8.  Loan Agreement, December 21, 2001.

9.  Project Agreement, December 21, 2001.

10. USIF Project Procurement of community infrastructure micro-projects, RSM Bentley Jennison,
    July 23, 2008.

11. Report on audit results on efficient use of resources for implementation of the World Bank
    project social investment fund, Accounting Chamber of Ukraine, September 9, 2008.

12. USIF Beneficiary Survey Results 2008




                                              15

             This map was produced by                                           25°E                                                                30°E                                                 35°E
             the Map Design Unit of The
             World Bank. The boundaries,
             colors, denominations and                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                          To                                             RUSSIAN
             any other information shown                                                                                                                Minsk
             on this map do not imply, on
             the part of The World Bank                                                                          BELARUS                                                                               FEDERATION
             Group, any judgment on the
             legal status    of any territory,                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                          To
             or any endorsement or                To
                                                  To                                                                                    Zhlobin
             a c c e p t a n c e o f  s u c h   Warsaw                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
             boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                               Bryansk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UKRAINE


                                           To
                                           To                North                                                                                                 Chernihiv  Desna
                                                                                                                                                                              Des
                                       Warsaw                               Kovel                  Sarny                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                  P O L A N D                                                                                                                                                                                                Orel
                                                                  Buh  V O L Y N                                                                               CHERNIHIV
                                                                                             RIVNE                                  Korosten                                            SUMY
                                                                           Luts'k                                                                     Kyiv                                           Sumy
                                                                                               Rivne                                             Reservoir
                                                                                                                        ZHYTOMYR
                                                                                                                                                             KYIV                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
              50°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Voronezh
                             To
                             To                                                                                                                              (KIEV)                                                                                                              50°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                           Tarnow
                           ar                                                                                            Zhytomyr                                                                                                                                       Voronezh
                                                      L'viv

                                                     L V I V                       Ternopil'                                        D nieper           KYIV                         POLTAVA                                   Kharkiv
                                                                                                                                                                    Dnieper
                                                                                                                                                                          Dnieper
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Poltava           KHARKIV
             SLOVAK                                                        TERNOPIL                                                                                                                                                                 LUHANSK
                                                                                                                                                                 Cherkasy            Kremenchug
            REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                   Reservoir                                                      Sieverodonetsk
                                                                                                                                                         CHERKASY                                                                                        Do
                                                                                                                                                                                               Kremenchuk                                                    nets
                                    Uzhhorod C a r p a t h i a nIV                                               Khmel'nyts'kyi                     U p l a n d                     Lowland
                                                                        Ivano-                                                    Vinnytsya
                                                                        Frankivs'k

                                                                     ANO-       Dniester                                                                                                                                           D o n e t s
                                                                                                   KHMELNYTSKYI         VINNYTSYA                                                                                                                                      Luhans'k
                                                                                                                                                         Uman'                                                                                  B a s i n
                                    ZAKARPAT                  FRANKIVSK

                                                  Hora Hoverla                                                                                                                                                                        DONETSK
                                                     (2061 m)
            HUNGARY                                                   M t ns.                                                        South
                                                                                       Chernivtsi                                         B uh                                Kirovohrad                          Dnipropetrovs'k

                                                                                                                                                              KIROVOHRAD                          DNIPROPETROVSK
                                                                            CHERNIVTSI                                                                                                                                                            Donets'k
                                                                                                                        MO                                                             Kryvyi Rih
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Zaporizhzhia

                                          To
                                          To
                                     Satu Mare                                          To
                                                                                        To                                                                         MYKOLAÏV
                                                                                                                                                                   MYKOLAÏV
                                                                                    Tirgu Mures
                                                         ROMANIA                                                           LDO                                                                    Nykopol


                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kakhov

                                                                                                                                               ODESSA                                                                                          Mariupol
                                                                      25°E                                                     VA                                                                           Reservoir

                                                                                                                                                                 Mykolayiv              Inhulets              ZAPORIZHZHIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Melitopol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Berdiansk

                                 UKRAINE                                                                             To
                                                                                                                     To                                                           Kherson
                                                                                                                  Birlad                                      Odessa                 KHERSON                                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                         RUSSIAN
                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                Azov                    FEDERATION
                                         OBLAST CAPITALS                                                          To
                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                  Tecuci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kerch
                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                         Izmail      Vilkova
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                To                                                                            C R I M E A N                                                                      45°N
                                         RIVERS                                                   Buzau                                                                          Yevpatoriia                  Teodosiia                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                          45°N                                                                                                                         Teodosiia                          Armavir
                                         MAIN ROADS                                                                                              Mouths of                               Simferopol'
                                                                                                                                                 the Danube                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sochi
OCTOBER                                  RAILROADS
                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                            To                                                      Sevastopol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0      50    100    150 Kilometers                              IBRD
                                         OBLAST BOUNDARIES                                                                Medgidia                                                                        Yalta
                                                                                                                                                          Black              Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          33505
       2004                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                     0          50         100          150 Miles
                                                                                          BULGARIA                                                30°E                                                            35°E

