Document of                FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1205-J M
STAFF PROJECTS REPORT
JAMAICA
FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 1, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Basic Rate 1/                   Special Rate
US$1 =  J$ 0.909                  US$1 =  J$ 1.25
J$ 1= US$1.10                     J$ 1= US$0.80
1/ The Basic Rate is applicable to the import of all essential goods,
all government transactions and all transactions of the bauxite
industry. The Basic Rate has been used in calculating project costs.
A       WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch (in)                =      2.540 centimeter (cm)
1 foot (ft)                       0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                =      1.609 kilometer (km)
1 square foot (sq ft)             0.093 square meter (m )
1 acre (ac)                =      0.405 hectare (ha)
1 pound (lb)               =      0.454 kilogram (kg)
1 short ton (sh ton)       =      0.907 metric ton (ton)
1 gallon (gal)            =       4.55 liters (1)
1 quart (qt)              =       1.138 liters (1)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB      :Agricultural Credit Board
ADC      :Agricultural Development Corporation
AMC      :Agricultural Marketing Corporation
DRW      :Department of Roads and Works of the Parish Councils
1DB      :Inter-American Development Bank
JAS      :Jamaica Agricultural Society
JDB      :Jamaica Development Bank
JPS      :Jamaica Public Service Company
LDUC     :Land Development and Utilization Commission
MLG      :Ministry of Local Government
MMNR     :Ministry of Mining and Natural Resources
MOA      :Ministry of Agriculture
MOE      :Ministry of Education
MOF      :Ministry of Finance
MOH      : Ministry of Housing
MOW      :Ministry of Works
MPH      :Ministry of Public Health and Environmental Control
MPS      :Ministry of Public Service
MYRD     :Ministry of Youth and Rural Development
NWA      :National Water Authority
PCB      :Peoples Cooperative Bank
PLL      :Social Development Commission
SSFDP    :Self-Supporting Farmers Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
A.   The Rural Sector ............. ...............           i
B.   Project Summary ...vi                    .........    vi
I.   THE PROJECT ...........1o........ 
Origin of the Project .......................            1
The Project Area ............................            I
Objectives and General Description ..........           2
Project Components , .........................           4
Reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture .... .... . ..... .*.... ... .          4
Agricultural Settlement.               ..    .....       6
Regional Infrastructure .,.......         ........    13
II.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS .........    16
Costs  .....................................    16
Financing ....0.........  .....                         17
Procurement    . .19
Disbursement .20
Accounts and Audits ......... ..... ..........    21
III.   ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..21
Institutional Responsibilities.                        21
Coordination . ..... ... .....................    24
Implementation   .                .24
Reporting .....................    ................    25
Evaluation ........................................    25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November/
December 1975 to Jamaica composed of Messrs. A. Uhlig, E. Los, 0. Saadat
(Bank) and Messrs. S. Hallgrimsson, J.B. Yankey (Consultants) and
H. Meliczek (FAO).
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
IV.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................   25
Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture    25
Agricultural Settlement ................. o ...   27
Regional Infrastructure ...      ..................   30
Project  Risks   .. .............  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  . .  31
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact ........   31
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS     ..................   34
ANNEX: Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP:    (ProJect Location - IBRD 12026)



JAMAICA
FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
A. The Rural Sector
Socio-Economic Conditions
1.        The rural sector in Jamaica embraces about 60% of the island's two
million people. Exclusive of mining, it contributes approximately 15% to the
GNP, over 50% to national employment and about 16% to export earnings.
2.        The standard of living in the rural areas is substantially lower
than in urban areas, the average per capita income of the rural population
(estimated at US$230) being only a tenth of the average urban income (about
US$2,440). About 80% of the rural population have an income less than one-
third of the national average (relative poverty) and at least a third of the
rural population earns less than the income considered necessary to provide
minimum caloric requirements (absolute poverty). Housing conditions, parti-
cularly on old sugar and banana estates, are grossly sub-standard. The
average occupancy rate is 1.7 persons per room. Only about 10% of the
rural dwellings have electrical connections and approximately 3% have piped
water. Almost 50% of rural homes depend on public standpipes for their water
supply and close to 10% lack sewage disposal facilities. With respect to
transportation facilities, the rural areas are interlaced with a relatively
dense network of roads (1.4 miles of road per square mile). However, most of
the road network consists of unengineered earth or gravel tracks which often
become impassable during the wet season. This not only results in high costs
for vehicle operation and road maintenance, but it impedes regular freight
and passenger traffic. Social services are also poor. The number of persons
per physician in the rural areas is twice that for the urban areas and infant
mortality and the incidence of malnutrition among children under five years of
age is significantly higher in the rural areas. Access to primary and voca-
tional schools in rural areas is limited; nearly 20% of the rural population
have not received any formal schooling and fewer than 10% reach the secondary
level.
3.        Within the rural sector, agriculture is the dominant activity,
providing 60% of rural employment and about 50% of rural production. Its
contribution to the national economy is highlighted by providing 30% of
total employment, 7% of GNP and 13% of export receipts. However, because of
rising internal demand for agricultural products and a poor performance of
export crop production Jamaica has become a net food importer since the
mid-1960s.



- ii -
Agriculture
4.        Resources and Land Use.  Out of a total surface area of 2.7 million
acres about 1.5 million acres in Jamaica is designated as land in farms, the
remainder being mostly forest. A third of the agricultural land in farms is
either unused or is of very limited agricultural potential. In effect Jamaican
agriculture is thus based on about one million acres of land. Of this only
about 25% is flat to undulating, the remainder being very hilly and requiring
good conservation practices if it is to be utilized intensively. There is
ample rainfall (about 2,000 mm annually on average) but its distribution is
uneven and partial droughts are frequent. Of the million acres of agricul-
tural land about 60% is utilized for crops and 40% for pasture, half of it
unimproved grassland. The largest proportion of cropland is under sugarcane
(32%), followed by coconut (19%), citrus, coffee, cocoa and other tree crops
(20%) and bananas (16%). The remainder (13%) is used for various food crops
(legumes, yams, pineapples and vegetables) and tobacco. The national herd
comprises about 280,000 head of cattle, 200,000 each of sheep, goats and pigs,
and 4 million poultry.
5.        Structure.  Jamaican agriculture has traditionally consisted of
two sectors namely (a) the export-oriented, large-scale plantation sector
engaged in the production of cash crops and beef cattle, and (b) small-scale
farmers, poducing food crops and livestock largely for domestic consumption.
In recent years economic, social and political factors have been changing
this dualistic pattern into a more diversified structure. Thus, the impor-
tance of the plantation sector has declined, while, at the same time, a small-
to medium-sized, more capital-intensive commercial farm sector has emerged.
Parallel to this, many of the smaller holdings are no longer farmed full time
and serve primarily as rural dwellings.
6.        Farm Size.  The agricultural land is very unevenly distributed
among 192,000 holdings. About 15% of the land is in 150,000 farms of less
than five acres, 22% in 37,000 farms of five to 25 acres, 3% in 1,755 farms
of 25 to 50 acres, 5% in 1,815 farms of 50-100 acres, 13% in 800 farms of 100
to 500 acres, and 42% in 630 farms of 500 acres and above. Two-thirds of the
farms over 500 acres are owned by Government and the bauxite companies.
The skewed distribution of land, and considerable underutilization of re-
sources that has resulted, has been a major impediment to the development of
agriculture and the rural areas. In recent years Government has, however,
distributed sizeable tracts to about 20,000 smallholders and landless laborers
under its Project Land Lease (PLL). However, this program has not yet re-
sulted in much increased agricultural production, and is hampered by ad-
ministrative difficulties, the lack of good support services and adequate
physical infrastructure in the settlement areas concerned.
7.        Production.  Traditionally, Jamaica's agriculture has been export-
oriented, with sugarcane and bananas being the most important crops.  In
recent years, however, agricultural exports have declined considerably, al-
though this has been compensated for to some extent by increasing production
of crops for the domestic market. Sugar output, has declined from a peak of



- iii -
500,000 tons in 1966 to 360,000 tons in 1975 owing to a number of complex
problems. Total banana production for 1972 and 1975 is estimated to have been
275,000 and 250,000 tons, respectively, but exports declined sharply from a
peak of 127,000 tons in 1972 to 70,000 tons in 1975, partly because an in-
creasing share was syphoned off for domestic consumption. Similarly exports
of fresh citrus products decreased, though total production has increased
slightly.
8.        In spite of the potential productivity of its tropical pastures,
Jamaica imports 80% of its milk and 40% of its meat. Jamaica's beef produc-
tion capability is limited, mostly because of beef cattle's relatively low
return per acre and the lack of suitable processing and distribution facili-
ties. An increasing proportion of Jamaica's requirement for meat is being
met by an efficient broiler industry based on imported feed mostly in the
hands of five companies who deal with about 300 contracted farmers. Layers
are kept in small commercial flocks. Dairies are concentrated mainly in the
eastern part of the island, and marketing outlets in the western portion are
poor although a new plant is being built in Montpelier. Lack of refrigeration
and pasteurization facilities results in large sales of raw and condensed
milk.
9.        Administration.  Numerous Government agencies are involved in the
agricultural sector and this poses complications. The Ministry of Agricul-
ture (MOA) has principal responsibility, but a number of other Government
institutions control important subsectors. Marketing is under the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Commerce and Trade and the Commodity Marketing
Boards, credit is largely under the Ministry of Finance, and irrigation is
under the Ministry of Public Utilities and the Ministry of Mining and Natural
Resources. A further complication is that the MOA is organized along com-
modity and specific program lines, with most of its qualified staff assigned
to offices in Kingston. At the local level, 13 semi-autonomous Land
Authorities - relics of the former Ministry of Rural Land Development and
operated under the jurisdiction of locally elected officials - are responsible
for agricultural extension and for certain regulatory functions. This frag-
mented administrative structure has contributed greatly to the unsatisfactory
performance of the industry. In addition to ineffectively using human and
financial resources, this structure has made it impossible for Government to
formulate and implement consistent agricultural policies and impossible to
provide effective support services to the agricultural sector.
10.       Credit.  The main sources of institutional credit for agriculture
are the commercial banks, the Jamaica Development Bank (JDB), the Agricultural
Credit Board (ACB) with its affiliated Peoples Cooperative Banks (PCBs), and
the Commodity Marketing Boards. These agencies do not coordinate the supply
of credit. Most Government-sponsored schemes carry negative interest rates
and are beset with recovery difficulties. Sufficient credit for small farmers
is available from the Self-Supporting Farmers Development Programme (SSFDP)
which is partially financed by the Inter American Development Bank (IDB) and
from the ACB. The only source of general development credit for commercial
farmers is the JDB.



- iv -
11.       Marketing.  Export crops are marketed by various Commodity Marketing
Boards which work independently of each other and periodically need sizeable
Government subsidies to cover their financial losses. Most of the domestic
food crop marketing is handled in a relatively effective but costly manner by
small traders (higglers) who engage in collecting and wholesaling as well as
retailing. About 20% of the domestic marketing of food crops is performed by
the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC), which also functions as Govern-
ment's price stabilizing and support agency. It buys produce at 207 buying
stations throughout the country, offers guaranteed minimum prices for 32
domestic food crops and as a result is often forced to sell it at heavy
financial losses. The most important marketing facility in the rural areas are
the parish markets. They serve both as market outlets for the local producers
and higglers as well as supply points for consumers in rural centers and for
wholesalers servicing urban centers. These existing markets, however,
have proven to be inadequate for handling the increased output of domestic
food crops. Another limitation is the poor rural road system which denies the
small producer in remote locations an economic access to the market.
Development Issues and Government Policies
12.       The performance of the agricultural sector has not been commensurate
with its physical potential. Over the last decade, production has remained
stagnant causing a decline in agricultural output and food production per
capita. This has been particularly evident for export crops, which have been
decreasing at an annual rate of 5% in constant prices. Although food crop
production has increased in the last few years, it has not kept pace with domes-
tic demand. As a result, food imports have increased at an annual rate of 5%
in constant prices to reach J$120 million in 1974. The unsatisfactory perform-
ance of the agricultural sector may be broadly attributed to:
(a) inertia regarding the application of improved farm practices
and failure to intensify land use and cropping patterns;
(b) past governmental neglect of the agricultural sector;
(c) the reluctance of the plantation sector to adjust to
changing socio-economic conditions;
(d) highly skewed land distribution;
(e) the lack of adequate agricultural support services, especially
extension and applied research, and particularly for small-
and medium-sized farmers;
(f) deficient infrastructure and social services in the rural-areas;
(g) deficient marketing arrangements for both food and some
export crops; and
(h) inter-related problems of low capital formation and the
private sector's reluctance to invest in agriculture.



v 
13.       Government is aware of the problems outlined, and, with Bank
assistance, undertook in 1973, an in-depth agricultural sector study, which
resulted in a Cabinet-approved policy for improving agricultural production,
rural infrastructure and enhancing rural living conditions. Based on the
recommendations of this study, the Government has initiated an agricultural
development program which has the following objectives:
(a) intensification of land utilization by introducing a progressive
land tax and by reactivating the Land Development and Utiliza-
tion Commission (LDUC), which requires owners of idle or under-
utilized holdings in excess of 50 acres to either intensify land
use, or to rent or sell the property to the Government for subse-
quent distribution to landless people or smallholders on a lease
basis (Project Land Lease);
(b) increasing credit availability through programs administered
by ACB and JDB;
(c) introduction of improved farm inputs and practices through
subsidies for better planting materials, fertilizers, and soil
conservation;
(d) encouragement of production of sugar, bananas, and citrus
by subsidies and of food crop production by provision of
subsidized marketing services through AMC and guaranteed
minimum prices;
(e) expansion of food crop and livestock production on state-
run Food Farms and through the Government-owned Agricultural
Development Corporation (ADC);
(f) improvement in the effectiveness of MOA by centralizing its
policy functions and decentralizing its program implementa-
tion and service functions; and
(g) improvement of rural infrastructure.
14.       This program is indicative of the Government's commitment to rural
development but its ultimate success will depend on the ability of the public
sector to effectively implement the proposed schemes; provide adequate tech-
nical services, especially for the development of the small-farm sector; and
maintain a favorable investment climate to facilitate the expansion of the
medium-sized commercial farm sector.
B. Project Summary
Project Background, Objectives and Concept
15.       The proposed project originated from a comprehensive agricultural
sector study undertaken by Government in 1973 with Bank assistance. It



- vi -
would implement some of the major policy recommendations which emerged from
this study. The project was identified and prepared by the Ministry of Agri-
culture (MOA) and related Jamaican institutions. Preparation assistance has
been provided by several FAO/CP and Bank missions.
16.       The proposed project would have three principal components:  the
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA); the settlement of 1,400
farm families; and the improvement of rural feeder roads, water supply sys-
tems, parish markets and sanitary facilities. It would complement Govern-
ment's rural development policy by increasing agricultural production and
income and improving the quality of life, and thereby reduce income dispari-
ties and curb urban migration.
17.       Because of existing financial and administrative constraints,
the project investments would concentrate on the Western Region, which has
especially pronounced poverty problems but also has immediate development
possibilities. After successful completion of the proposed project, Govern-
ment intends to initiate similar projects for the remainder of Jamaica.
The project in itself does not provide a fully balanced and integrated in-
vestment package, but concentrates on removing key constraints to rural
development not covered by other Government programs presently under execu-
tion or planned. A considerable portion of project investment would be
for building institutions and productive structures. This is because the
basic problems of rural development in Jamaica are institutional and because
of the complementary character of the project. The settlement component,
which accounts for almost half of the project investment, is designed to
create a technically and financially viable farm-size structure and to re-
establish confidence and interest in small-scale farming. In order to meet
these objectives the component would provide for (a) farms of a size capable
of generating full employment for the farmers family, (b) a farmers income
which meets both his short term minimum needs and his long term income-
expectations, (c) essential social and economic infrastructure in the settle-
ment areas to attract qualified settlers on a lasting base and to allow an
unimpeded development of production and marketing.
Project Area
18.       Except for the reorganization of the MOA, the proposed project
investments would be confined to the Western Region (frequently referred to
as Cornwall County), which includes the parishes of Trelawny, St. James,
Hanover, Westmorland and St. Elizabeth. The region comprises an area of
about one million acres or one-third of the total area of Jamaica. It has
almost half a million inhabitants or about one quarter of the island's total
population. Eighty six percent of them are classified as rural and about half
of these find employment in agriculture. The urban population lives in a few
towns, of which Montego Bay, a major tourist center, and Savanna-la-Mar are
the largest. They depend largely on employment in the service, construction
and mining sector. Living conditions in the project area are similar, by and
large, to those in the rural area of the rest of Jamaica, except that the
poverty is more pronounced. Thus, unemployment is estimated to be well over



- vii -
25% and only about a third of the male population over 14 years of age is
fully employed. The average annual per capita income is estimated to be
approximately US$175, but close to 50% of the population are thought to have
annual incomes of less than US$100. Malnutrition is widespread and social
services are meager. As a result there is a substantial migration, parti-
cularly of the able-bodied, to the metropolitan area of Kingston.
19.       Much of the project area is hilly to mountainous and only one-third
of it (330,000 acres) is actually under cultivation. Land distribution is
highly skewed. Large farms generally concentrate on export crops and
cattle while small ones produce mostly food crops and small livestock for
domestic consumption. Because of the predominance of sugarcane and cattle,
the region produces about 40% of Jamaica's sugar and about 43% of its beef.
Project Components
20.       The first component of the proposed project would facilitate imple-
menting the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture as proposed in the
"Review of Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture" by the Ministry of
Public Services. It contemplates a reincorporation of most agricultural
services under the direct jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, an
internal restructuring of the Ministry along functional lines (as opposed to
the presently existing project-oriented structure) and a decentralization and
regionalization of the Ministry's technical services. The Cabinet's formal
decision to implement the reorganization plan would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Project invest-
ment in support of this program would provide for:
(a) additional facilities required for regionalization, including
accommodation for two new regional offices, 30 additional
local offices and 40 staff houses in the remoter areas;
(b) 30 four-wheel drive vehicles to be used in areas with difficult
access; and
(c) an extensive training program for most of the Ministry's
professional, technical and clerical staff. The Ministry
would complete the details of the training program and
submit the final program to the Bank within six months of
the signing of the loan (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
21.       The second project component would support Government's existing
Project Land Lease (PLL), which aims at reducing widespread underutilization
of agricultural land and rural unemployment by acquiring underutilized farms
larger than 50 acres and then leasing the land for 49 years to farmers with
inadequate land (PLL II) or to landless people (PLL III) so that they may
reach a minimum annual net farm income of J$ 2,000 after a development
period of about 5 years. This component would include:



- viii -
(a) acquisition of about 4,000 acres for settlement purposes (in
addition to 12,687 acres already purchased) within six months
of loan signing (Section 3.12(b) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) preparation of detailed physical plans for the development
of the nine settlement areas included in the project. The
plans not prepared by the time of loan signing would be
completed within one year of loan signing (Section 3.05(a)i
of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c) construction of settlement infrastructure, including 10
miles of access roads to the settlement sites, 10 miles of
village roads, and 40 miles of farm roads connecting the
village sites with the farming areas. The Government
would provide the necessary funds to maintain the roads
constructed under the project (Section 3.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement);
(d) construction of 820 farm houses in a program jointly carried
out by the Ministry of Housing, the Ministry of Agriculture
and local contractors. The Jamaica Development Bank would
act as a collection agent for the mortgage payments made by
the settlers (Section 3.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(e) construction of potable water and electricity supply systems
for the settlements. The Government would make appropriate
arrangements with the Jamaican Public Service Company and
the National Water Authority to provide a timely supply of
electricity and water for the settlements (Section 3.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement);
(f) selection and settlement of 1,400 families with adequate
farming qualifications; the adoption of satisfactory guide-
lines and operating policies for settlement including
a land rent review mechanism would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The annual land rent paid by settlers is at present 2% of
the commercial price of land, which is below commercial
rates. The proposed guidelines would provide a mechanism
for a review of land rents paid by settlers after a five-year
development period with a view to adjusting rents to a rate
comparable to the then prevailing commercial rates;
(g) provision of essential community facilities at the settlement
sites to accommodate settlement administration and of
marketing facilities for agricultural inputs and outputs.
In addition, the Government would provide for essential
social services (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement);



- ix -
(h) soil conservation and forestation measures for 1400 acres to
immediately provide each settler with a minimum of one acre
of readily cultivable land; and
(i) technical assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture to
implement the settlement component through the provision
of site managers and adequate supporting services in each
settlement area (Section 3.05(a)ii of the draft Loan
Agreement).
22.       The settlers' credit requirements for farm and crop development
(estimated at about US$2.7 million) would be provided by the Jamaican Develop-
ment Bank with funds from the existing Self-Supporting Farmers' Development
Program financed partially by the Inter-American Development Bank.
The Government would assure the availability of adequate credit funds
(Section 3.08(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
23.       The third project component would assist the Government's program
to improve the economic and social infrastructure of the Western Region.
The component would include:
(a) construction/reconstruction of 70 miles of rural feeder
roads;
(b) construction/rehabilitation of nine parish markets to
accommodate 3,000 vendors present. Present user rates for
the markets would be reviewed and adjusted to recover operation
and maintenance costs, as well as capital expenditures, at an
annual interest of 8% (Section 3.09(i) and 3.09(ii) of the draft
Loan Agreement);
(c) extension of 37 existing water supply systems and the
construction of four new systems servicing a total of
about 15,000 rural families. Prevailing user rates for water
would be reviewed and adjusted to recover, to the extent
practical, operation and maintenance costs and, to capital
expenditures, taking into account the payment capacity and
preparedness of the users to pay (Section 3.09(iii) of the
draft Loan Agreement);
(d) construction and installation of 6,000 waste disposal units
in a program jointly undertaken by the Ministry of Public
Health and Environmental Control, the Parish Councils and
individual householders.
Cost, Financing and Disbursement
24.       The total cost of the proposed project would be US$31.4 million
(J$ 28.5 million) exclusive of interest during construction, but including
physical and price contingencies. The estimated foreign exchange content
would be US$8.5 million (J$ 7.7 million), or 27% of total project costs.
The cost structure by major components, including contingencies, would be
as follows:



x
US$ million  SO of Total
Support for Ministry of Agriculture            4.1            13
Agricultural settlement                       15.7            50
Regional infrastructure                       11.6            37
Total                              31.4           100
25.       Project investment per beneficiary family would be about US$20 for
the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, US$120 for regional infra-
structure, and US$6,000 for the settlement component.  The investment per
beneficiary family for the settlement component was calculated exclusive of
land acquisition costs and using the basic exchange rate. Computation of
costs using the special exchange rate would bring the investment costs per
beneficiary family to about US$5,000.  The costs for the settlement component
include land preparation, housing, water and electricity supply, settlement
planning and administration, and pro rata costs of roads and community facili-
ties. Although the settlement investment costs are relatively high, the
planned investments are essential in view of the extensive infrastructure
investments that must be made in areas that in the past have received little
or no such investment.  The proposed farm size (5 to 8 acres) and the proposed
level of infrastructure investment are essential for creating farm generating
income capacity and living conditions sufficient to attract qualified settlers
on a permanent basis.
26.       The project would be financed by a Government contribution of
US$16.4 million (J$ 14.9 million) and a Bank loan of US$15 million (J$ 13.6
million). The Bank loan would thus finance 48% of total project cost and
would, in addition, cover the project's foreign exchange content of US$8.5
million, plus US$6.5 million, or 28%, of the project's local cost. Local
cost financing would absorb 43% of the Bank loan. Local cost financing is
justified on the basis of estimates that capital inflows into Jamaica, if
restricted to the foreign exchange component of projects, would not be
sufficient to meet the foreign exchange requirements of the total public
investment program and estimated debt servicing liabilities.
27.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover 55% of
total expenditures for civil works, training, physical planning, administra-
tion and supervision, and 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles. Land
acquisition would not be financed from the loan. Expenditures incurred for
the physical planning of agricultural settlements and the construction of
markets and feeder roads after July 31, 1976 would be eligible for retroactive
financing up to a total of US$1 million (paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements are expected to extend over three-and-a
half years after loan signing.
Organization and Management
28.       Overall responsibility for the project would rest with the Ministry
of Agriculture, which would coordinate and supervise implementation through
the existing Interministerial Standing Committee for Land Reform and Rural
Development, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of Agriculture.  This
committee is functioning satisfactorily at present.  A special Project



- xi -
Coordinator, attached to the Office of the Permanent Secretary, would assist
in coordinating and supervising project implementation. The Ministry of
Agriculture would be responsible for its own reorganization, and for the
implementation of the settlement component. The Ministry of Works would
implement the feeder road component; the Ministry of Local Government, the
market structures and water supply systems; and the Ministry of Public Health
and Environmental Control, the Parish Councils and the Ministry of Local
Government, the sewage disposal units. Other agencies, including the Jamaica
Development Bank, the Ministry of Housing, the Agricultural Marketing Cor-
poration, the Ministry of Education, the Rural Electrification Program and the
Jamaica Public Service Company, and the Social Development Commission
would provide supplementary services for settlement development and
would be represented on the Interministerial Standing Committee (The
organization and management of the Project are described in Schedule 5
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
29.       Items to be procured under the project include civil works, vehicles
and services. Civil works, with a total estimated value of US$22 million,
including contingencies, are individually small (the value of the largest
single contract would be about US$0.4 million and the largest combination of
contracts is expected to amount to no more than US$0.8 million) and geogra-
phically dispersed, with construction extending to over three years, hence
they are unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Furthermore, the shortage of
qualified local bidders, the desirability of labor-intensive construction
methods and the hiring of small contractors located near the construction
sites would limit the opportunity for local competitive bidding. For these
reasons, smaller civil works with an individual or package value not exceed-
ing US$50,000 (constituting almost two-thirds of the civil works) would be
procured on the basis of individually negotiated contracts or force account.
The remaining one-third would consist of those civil works with an individual
or package value exceeding US$50,000 and would include construction of
regional offices, markets and parts of the water supply schemes and community
facilities and about two-thirds of the feeder roads. These would be procured
after local competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank and without excluding foreign bidders. Individual civil work
contracts or packages of contracts exceeding a value of US$250,000 and vehicles
would be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Administrative services provided under the project are
valued at US$1.8 million and relate to the implementation of a training pro-
gram for the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and for the planning, design,
administration and supervision of the settlement component. An estimated
two-thirds of these services would be carried out under force account by the
Ministry of Agriculture. The rest would be contracted in accordance with Bank
guidelines for consulting services (procurement procedures are described in
Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- xii -
Agricultural Production and Markets
30.       The incremental agricultural production from the project would
result from the expected improvement in the efficiency of agricultural ser-
vices, especially extension services, throughout the country, and from the
nine settlements. Agricultural output from the settlement areas, estimated
on the basis of site specific farm models, is expected to increase gradually
from J$ 0.3 million in the second project year to J$ 6.9 million in year
15 in terms of end of 1975 farmgate prices. During the initial years, most of
the production would be for the farmers' subsistence. However, as production
rises an increasing share of the farm output would be sold, probably reaching
85% of total production by full development. About 40% of the production
would be export crops and the remainder, by and large, vegetables and fruit
for the domestic market.
31.       The value of the incremental production from the settlement schemes
at full development would correspond to about 4% of national agricultural
output in 1974. The corresponding percentage would be 5% and 8% for domestic
food crops and export crops. The additional bananas, citrus and coffee pro-
duction would be equivalent to about 5%, 7% and 17% of the respective national
totals in 1974. The domestic and export markets would easily absorb the in-
cremental production, and the existing marketing system, based largely on
small private intermediaries, Commodity Marketing Boards and the Government's
Agricultural Marketing Corporation, would be capable of handling the addi-
tional production.
Benefits and Justification
32.       The reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture would benefit
the entire farming community in Jamaica in the form of better support ser-
vices. The related investments would not be directly recovered but would be
justified in economic terms if, as a result, the aggregate national agricul-
tural output increased annually by one-quarter of 1%. This is considered
a realistic expection in light of the increased coverage and improved quality
of services to farmers expected from the reorganization.
33.       The direct beneficiaries of the settlement component would be the
1,400 families included in the program. They would receive full-time agri-
cultural employment with very satisfactory income levels. Currently they are
estimated to have an average family income of about US$500. Based on settle-
ment site specific farm models, the annual family income from farm operations
is expected to reach an average of about J$ 3,000 after five years at end of
1975 prices and about J$ 7,000 at full development after 15 years. If the
present Government cash subsidy program for agricultural inputs (land
development, planting material and fertilizer) and for prices of outputs
(banana and citrus) would be discontinued, the projected average family income
after 5 years would drop to J$ 2,000 and to J$6,000 at full development. The
unweighted average financial rate of return is estimated to be 37%, varying
between 29% and 45% according to settlement sites. Excluding input and price



- xiii -
subsidies the average would be about 20%. Expected income levels and finan-
cial rates of returns are high and the proposed farm development would remain
financially attractive and viable if key technical and financial parameters
deviated from the basic assumption by a 20% to 25% margin. The direct
economic benefits from the settlement component would consist of the incre-
mental agricultural production, valued at J$ 6.4 million at full development
in economic terms at constant end of 1975 prices. The economic rate of return
for the settlement component relating all on-settlement investments except
land to the incremental net benefits from the farm operations would be 19%.
The economic viability of settlement would remain satisfactory if volume or
prices of output and inputs would deviate by a 20% margin from basic assump-
tions. In addition to these quantifiable benefits, the implementation of the
settlement component would provide for the establishment of suitable
administrative procedures for settlement, which is the Government's principal
approach to correct the socially and economically incompatible land distri-
bution pattern. It would also help in establishing suitable soil conservation
and erosion control measures. The relatively high investment cost per bene-
ficiary in the proposed settlement component is a result of the need for the
acquisition of land for providing essential infrastructural facilities in the
settlement areas on one side and the necessity for establishing farms capable
of generating an income sufficient to attract qualified persons to full time
farming on a permanent basis on the other. The investment cost per bene-
ficiary are therefore justified as a least cost solution for meeting the
objective of the settlement component.
34.       The feeder road component would directly benefit about 15,000 to
20,000 acres of agricultural land and approximately 5,000 farm families in
the remoter areas by providing reliable access for marketing and communica-
tions, thus increasing their economic potential and possibly reducing urban
migration. The selection of feeder roads to be included in the project
would follow a methodology which would assure that the economic rate of
return for this investment would be no less than 10%.
35.       The market facilities constructed or rehabilitated under the project
would strengthen the traditional, low cost marketing system. They would
mostly benefit small-scale producers and low income consumers. The invest-
ment would be economically justified if there was a reduction of food losses
due to spoilage in the order of 2% of throughput. Actual savings are expected
to be in excess of 2%. Reduction in health hazards would be an additional
benefit.
36.       The extension and rehabilitation of 41 water supply systems and
6,000 waste disposal units would benefit about 17,000 rural families by
improving their quality of life. Such facilities are also expected to
reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases.



- xiv -
Recommendation and Risks
37.       The proposed project would constitute a major effort to remove
some of the key institutional constraints to agricultural and rural develop-
ment in Jamaica. It would thus meet Government's objectives of increasing
agricultural production, thereby reducing the foreign trade deficit, increas-
ing employment and improving incomes. In benefitting primarily the poorer
segment of the rural population, it would also contribute to a more even
distribution of income among rural people and help remove income disparities
between the rural and urban sectors. Equally important as the tangible
benefits (incremental production, improved access and better services) would
be the project's contribution to building suitable institutions for effec-
tively assisting agricultural development and improving land holding and
land utilization patterns. It is expected that the institutional reforms,
the settlement procedures and the farm development concept introduced would
serve as a basis for replicating the project in the other two regions of the
country.
38.       The project is bound to experience difficulties in the coordination
of the various agencies involved, particularly as a major component is agri-
cultural settlement. It will be essential to provide on a coordinated basis
the supporting technical services, which in turn will depend largely on the
timely and effective reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture. Given,
however, the Government's firm commitment to the proposed project, it is
expected that the problems related to the reorganization of the Ministry and
the coordination of project implementation will be satisfactorily resolved.
The project's risks would therefore be acceptable.
39.       The project is viable from a technical, economic and institutional
viewpoint. With the assurances obtained during negotiations, the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$15 million, with a repayment period
of 17 years, including a grace period of three-and-a-half years.



I. THE PROJECT
Origin of the Project
1.01      The proposed project has its origin in a comprehensive Agricultural
Sector Study undertaken by Government in 1973 with Bank assistance. This
sector review formed the basis for the so-called Green Paper, setting out
Government's "Agricultural Development Policy." The project would implement
some of the major recommendations of this policy paper. Project identifi-
cation and preparation have been carried out by a team in the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), supported by other related institutions. It has been
assisted in this task by several FAO/CP and Bank missions.
The Project Area
1.02      The proposed project investments would be confined to the Western
Region of Jamaica except for the support to reorganize the MOA. The region
is frequently referred to as Cornwall County and includes the parishes of
Trelawny, St. James, Hanover, Westmorland and St. Elizabeth. It comprises
approximately 1 million acres, or 37% of the total area of Jamaica, and
its 470,000 inhabitants represent about 23% of the island's total popula-
tion. The only sizeable towns in the region are Montego Bay, a major tourist
center, and Savanna-la-Mar. About 86% of the population is classified as
rural, and agriculture is the main occupation of well over half of the people
in the area. Apart from agriculture there are only few opportunities for other
work in the two towns and in the tourist and mining industry, and unemployment
is well over 25%. There is also considerable underemployment and it is thought
that only about a third of the male population over 14 years old is in fact
fully employed. As a result of this, and since social amenities are also poor,
there has been and continues to be large-scale migration of the able-bodied to
the urban areas, particularly Kingston. Much of the remaining population is
therefore either elderly or very young. Malnutrition is endemic and a recent
survey in Hanover parish suggests that half of the children under six years of
age show signs of protein deficiency. The average annual income of the fami-
lies engaged in agriculture is about US$750, corresponding to a per capita
income of about US$175. About 40%, however, are thought to have per capita
incomes of less than US$100.
1.03      Much of the area is very hilly, almost mountainous, and only about
a third of it (330,000 acres) is actually under cultivation. Relatively little
land is really flat and what there is (about 30,000 acres) often has drainage
problems. The pattern of land distribution is extremely skewed. The total
number of holdings is 67,000, but those over 100 acres in size (10%) control
more than half of the total area while holdings of less than five acres (80%)
represent only about 13% of the area. About half of the cultivated area is
under crops, the other half being under pasture, most of which is unimproved.
Sugarcane is the principal crop (73,000 acres), of which about 20% used to be
owned by one commercial estate. The estate land has, however, been purchased
by Government and is in the process of being subdivided into a number of co-
operative farms. Mixed stands of different food crops are the next most



- 2 -
important (45,000 acres), followed by bananas (14,000 acres), coconuts
(6,600 acres) and coffee (4,000 acres). The livestock population numbers
110,000 cattle, mostly beef catLie owned by the larger farmers, and some
90,000 sheep and goats. As a consequence of this overall cropping pattern,
the region produces about 40% of Jamaica's sugar and about 43% of its beef.
1.04      Because of the relative backwardness of the area, there has been
some concentration of public efforts to improve its economic and social
situation. These measures include land distribution under Project Land
Lease (PLL) and several small soil conservation and drainage projects. In
addition, the region has benefitted from Government's efforts to improve the
social and economic infrastructure, agricultural credit and marketing.
However, all these efforts remain, by and large, uncoordinated, largely
because the structure of the public services has not been atuned to inte-
grated regional development.
Objectives and General Description
1.05      The general objective of the proposed project would be to support
the Government's policies to improve rural incomes, expand agricultural
production, promote economic and social development in the rural areas and
to curb urban migration. In line with these policies, project investment
would be concentrated on agricultural development and on improving social and
physical infrastructure. However, because of financial and administrative
constraints on one hand and the desirability of an integrated approach on the
other, the project would, except for the assistance provided to reorganize
the MOA, be confined to the Western Region with its especially pronounced
poverty problems and its potential for immediate development. The project
in itself would not provide a totally integrated and balance investment
package, but would be complementary to several other ongoing or proposed
projects of a regional or national nature. These include two agricultural
credit programs for both small and large farmers (the latter assisted by the
Bank), Project Food Farms (government-operated food production farms), several
drainage and irrigation schemes, a sugar industry development program (being
prepared for Bank financing), a rural electrification project, an agricultural
marketing project, an agricultural research program, a feeder road construc-
tion scheme, and a Bank assisted population and health project.
1.06      The project would have three basic components.  The first would
address itself to the current problems of the MOA. Theoretically, overall
responsibility for agricultural and rural development is vested with the
Ministry, but in practice many important aspects have become the responsi-
bility of the Commodity Marketing Boards, which operate by and large inde-
pendently of the Ministry. For instance, the planning, promotion, and con-
trol of the production of livestock, sugar, rice, bananas, citrus, cocoa,
coconuts, pimento and coffee do not constitute an integral part of the
Ministry's activities. Similarly, irrigation is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Public Utilities, while water use planning, land surveying and



- 3 -
valuation are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mining and Natural
Resources (MMNR). Agricultural credit is provided by private banks, the
Agricultural Credit Board (ACB), the People's Cooperative Banks, the Jamaica
Development Bank (JDB), and also by the Commodity Marketing Boards. Consider-
able duplication also prevails in the field of agricultural extension and
research. The lack of coordination between these agencies has made it diffi-
cult and costly to execute agricultural programs, especially those requiring
concerted efforts by various institutions. There has also been a great con-
centration of staff in the various agencies' headquarters in Kingston and
competition for qualified staff between agencies. In addition, there has been
very little participation by the rural population in the planning and execu-
tion of development schemes.
1.07      Government has fully recognized the existing structural deficiencies
in the administration of agricultural development and has proposed a compre-
hensive reorganization. Under the plan, MOA would assume direct control of
most technical services, except for marketing and credit, and it would
centralize its policy and planning along functional lines, but would decen-
tralize its field services. The proposed project would support the implemen-
tation of this reorganization by providing financial assistance for the
construction of two regional office buildings and supplying housing and
vehicles for extension personnel and funds for staff training.
1.08      The second project element would support the Government's ongoing
program to alleviate the deficencies in the existing pattern of land distri-
bution.  In recognition of the social and economic implications of the pre-
vailing structure, the Government in 1973 initiated Project Land Lease (PLL),
which has three distinct phases, Under PLL I, Government rents privately-owned
land, and leases it, in turn, in small lots to farmers for a period of about
five years. Under PLL II and III, Government-owned, or underutilized private
lands acquired by Government, are leased for 49 years to farmers with inade-
quate land (PLL II) or to landless people who are qualified to become farmers
(PLL III). The proposed project would, therefore, support PLL II and III
in nine locations of the Western Region by financing the necessary settlement
infrastructure, including farmers' housing. As indicated by previously
undertaken settlement schemes the success of PLL depends, not only on the
provision of these minimal facilities, but also on sound physical planning,
good administration, and good back-up technical and financial services. In
the past, these services have not been adequately provided. The reorgani-
zation of the Ministry, especially the establishment of the Regional Office in
the Western Region, is expected to improve the Ministry's service capacity and
is therefore an essential element of the settlement component of the project.
1.09      The third component of the project would help finance the Govern-
ment's existing programs for improving and extending rural feeder roads,
market facilities, water supply and waste disposal systems in the Western
Region. The lack of sufficient and passable roads has limited the access
to markets, hampered communication and consequently hindered development,



- 4 -
especially with regard to small-scale farming and remote areas. Inadequate
social amenities have also resulted in a poor quality of life, leading to a
drain of the more qualified labor force to the urban areas. In supporting
the upgrading of the social and economic infrastructure, this project element
is therefore expected to contribute tangibly to the improvement of the
economic prospects of the Western Region.
1.10      The proposed project would concentrate heavily on institution
building and on the improvement of economic and social infrastructure. It
would involve relatively little investment to foster production since this
is being done by other measures. This would be justified partially by
the supplementary nature of the proposed project and partially by the fact
that the fundamental problems of rural development are essentially insti-
tutional.
Project Components
1.11      Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture.  The Government has,
on the basis of various detailed studies, decided on a comprehensive reorgani-
zation of the MOA and has developed detailed plans for centralizing its policy
and planning functions and decentralizing and regionalizing all program imple-
mentation activities. The plan calls for an immediate reduction in the func-
tions of the Commodity Marketing Boards by incorporating their extension and
research activities into the Ministry. It is also planned to transfer respon-
sibility for drainage and irrigation to the Ministry, to eventually amalgamate
the Commodity Marketing Boards into a single Agricultural Marketing Corporation,
and possibly to provide agricultural credit through a single credit institution.
Parallel to these shifts in institutional responsibilities, there would be a
reorganization of the Ministry itself along functional lines and a restruc-
turing of the Ministry's headquarters. The latter would consist of the
Permanent Secretariat, a Board of Management, an Interministerial Standing
Committee on Land Reform and Rural Development, and Divisions of Planning
Policy Review and Marketing, Special Programs, Statistics and Evaluation,
Research, Extension and Administration. The actual implementation of field
programs would become the responsibility of three regional offices: Montego
Bay for the Western Region; Highgate for the Northern Region; and Kingston for
the Central Region. Each regional office would be headed by a Regional Director,
who would liaise with representatives of other public institutions at the
regional level. He would also coordinate the activities of the corresponding
parish managers. The actual implementation of field programs would be the
responsibility of the parish managers, who would work through field officers
for extension, and agricultural engineering. The Government would also
implement an intensive training program for technical, administrative, and
clerical staff. A simplified chart of the proposed structure for the reorga-
nized Ministry of Agriculture is given overleaf.
1.12      The regionalization of the Ministry would increase the number of
field staff from 1,610 to 2,730, which would require more office space than
is presently available. Therefore, two new regional office buildings would



- 5 -
PROPOSED ORGANIZATTIN OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
MINISTER OF
AGRICULTURE
Interministerial
Standing Committee                       Peraanent                         Board of
on Land Reform and                                                  -        anagement
Rural Development                        Secretary
Personnel
Accounting
Director                Internal Audit
S Services                 Management Review
Division                Filing
Office Services
Finance
Director          Drector                Director                    Dr ctor         Director
Land Administration               Special          Extension             Planning, Policy             Research       Databank and
Engineering                       Programs         Services              Review and                                  Evaluation
- Forestry                                                               Marketing
-Fishery
-Livestock
-Veterinary
Cooperatives
RRegional                                                     egional                                                           Regional
Director /1                                                  Director                                                           Director /1
North                                                         West                                                             South
----- ~ ~ '~  ~ ~     T -------- - --------- -             ~               ~Personnel
Farmers          Technical                                                           Accounting
Advisory         Coordinating                      Support                           Auditing
Comsittee        Comnmittee                                                          Auditing
-----------  ---------------                                   ~ ~~~~~Filing
Office Services
Deputy                            Regional                g ona
Land Administration           Regional                           Manager                Land
Engineering                   Director                          of Plant                Lease
Forestry                      Technical                         Production              Officer
Fishery                       Services
Veterinary
Cooperatives
Parish   / 
Matnager- 
------------                              g  I                                                Accounts
Farmers                                 ||   ead of |                                        Filing
Advisry                                                         Support                      Office Services
,_ committeeJ      |                   |  Services |                ~~~~~~~~L Stores
/  Division t    o                                      Parisht 
Officer       ||Superintendent|
Agricultural                                            (Agricultural l
/  Development     e      a                               Engineeriny)  i
|OArean|z|tlionl.Works Manager
| Extension    [            | Co~~nsorato   |                Water Supply/Draing |
t ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ officer
H eadman      I
F A R M E R S|
/I With organizations similar to that of the Western Region.
/2 There are five parishes in the Western Region and eight in the remainder of the country with similar
organizations.



- 6 -
be constructed and equipped, one at Montego Bay for a staff of about 140
(10,000 sq ft) and another at Highgate for a staff of 110 (8,000 sq ft).
Until these facilities become available, the Ministry would rent office
space. Since staff housing is not generally available in the more remote
rural areas, the project would also finance the construction of 30 local
offices of standard design (250 sq ft with a 150-sq-ft store attached) and
40 houses each with a covered area of about 600 sq ft. It would also finance
30 four-wheel drive vehicles since certain areas are not accessible to
normal passenger cars. Lastly, the project would finance a training program
which would include in-service courses for professional, technical and
clerical staff. Courses for professionals would be residential and include
overseas training for a total of 64 weeks for 15 officers, mainly in exten-
sion methods, communications, and production techniques. The total number
of staff included in the entire program would be about 1,900, or about
two-thirds of the Ministry's total employees. The details of the staff
training program have to be worked out and assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the final program would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of loan signing.
1.13      Agricultural Settlement.  The basic settlement concept would aim at
providing individual families with enough agricultural land to produce after
a development period of about 5 years an annual net family income of at least
J$ 2,000 and which has a long term income generating capacity equivalent to
the present national average per capita income. Beneficiaries would be
landless people or small farmers who currently have insufficient land to
enable them to earn the target income. Some 80% of them are estimated to
belong to the poverty target group. The lands to be settled are located in
nine geographically separate areas and are presently not used at all or are
underutilized. The project would acquire these lands (para 1.16), finance the
physical planning of the settlement sites (para 1.17), and provide essential
physical and social infrastructure, including farmers' housing and certain
community facilities (paras 1.18 to 1.21). It would also provide essential
soil conservation works (para 1.22), and a small administrative assistance
component to help in the planning and implementation of the settlement program
(para 1.23). Total investment per settler would average about US$9,000
(inclusive of the cost of land acquisition and physical contingencies).
1.14      With the initiation of detailed physical planning for each specific
site, the Government would invite applications from prospective settlers.
Applicants would be required to submit, on a standard form, details of age,
educational achievement, farming experience, location of present residence
and time lived there, family size and income. The applicant would be inter-
viewed intitially by the site manager and a land lease officer, both of whom
would recommend candidates on the basis of a pre-established evaluation system.
This system would give priority to tenants, squatters and farm workers who had
worked on the land prior to its purchase by Government. Other applicants
would be evaluated on a points system which would give priority to farming
ability and social need. Applicants having incomes higher than twice the
target level of J$ 2,000 and those under PLL II who live more than two miles
away from the settlement site would be eliminated. A selection committee



composed of the regional land lease officer, as chairman, the parish and
site managers, and representatives of the Jamaica Agricultural Society and
the Social Development Commission (SDC) would review the preselection and
then determine which settlers would actually be accepted. The selected
settlers would undergo a probationary period between selection and signing
of the lease contract, during which they would be employed in the construction
of the civil works on the settlement sites. The tenancy agreement, to be
registered in the Register of Lands, would, in addition to general covenants,
specifically stipulate the settler's obligation to appropriately develop and
use his land in accordance with sound soil conservation practices within five
years. Non-compliance would lead to eviction.
1.15      The annual land rent to be paid by settlers under the existing
Project Land Lease is 2% of the commercial price of the land, which is below
commercial rates. Hence, Government would review rents after a five-year
development period for PLL II and III settlers and for PLL I settlers renewing
their leases with a view to adjusting rents to a rate comparable to the then
prevailing commercial rates. At present, the technical and legal aspects of
the settlement procedures are not clearly defined. The Government would
therefore prepare general settlement guidelines, including the settler
selection system, a standard lease contract specifying in detail the rights
and obligations of the settlers, and a rent review mechanism. The availabil-
ity of such guidelines, approved by the Government and satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
1.16      Land Acquisition:  About 820 landless families, together with 580
farm families with insufficient land, would be settled on a gross area of
16,687 acres (net cultivable land, 6,400 acres) distributed over nine sites
in the Western Region. Three quarter of the area (12,687 acres) has already
been acquired by Government. The remaining 4,000 acres have been identified
and would be acquired within six months of loan signing in accordance with
procedures established by the Land Development and Utilization Act. An
assurance on this has been obtained at negotiations. Under the Act, owners of
underutilized farms in excess of 50 acres are required to sell their land to
Government at prevailing market prices. The average price of the land is
estimated to be J$ 350/acre, of which 20% would be paid in cash and the
remainder in 20-year land bonds carrying an interest rate of 10.5%. The
distribution of properties by settlement areas and the numbers of settlers
projected would be as follows:



-8-
Number of       Number of
Total      Cultivable       Full Time    Supplementary
Settlement Sites              Acreage        Acres          Settlers        Tenants
St. James Parish
Montego Valley /1 York   2,976          1,360              190           110
Vaughansfield  /1          1,949          640               40           200
Sweetwater                 1,000          520               80            20
Hanover Parish
Kennilworth /1             2,293 /2       830              105           100
Pellriver                    728          520               70            50
Burnt Ground /1            1,750        1,010              130            50
Westmorland Parish
Whitehall /1               3,313          560               70            -
Canaan Mountain              960          480               80            -
Leamington                 1,718          480               55            50
16,687        6,400              820           580
/1   Already acquired by Government.
/2   Excluding Kennilworth Youth Camp.
1.17      Physical Planning:  The MOA has already started to prepare detailed
plans and engineering designs for the physical layout of civil works, village
sites, and cultivable land in the settlement sites already acquired. Initial
plans and designs for the first year's operations have been prepared and
reviewed by the Bank. The physical planning of all areas would be completed
within one year of loan signing. Assurances to this effect were obtained from
Government at negotiations. Plans would be based upon a physical, economic
and social evaluation of each area and would include baseline surveys, layouts
for villages, community facilities and other civil works, detailed engineering
studies for the physical infrastructure, and plans for the preparation of
contracts. The physical planning is expected to require 40 man-months per
site.
1.18      Settlement Roads:  These would include access roads to the new
villages from existing roads, roads within villages, and farm roads and
tracks providing access to individual holdings. Access roads (about 10
miles) would be built to national feeder road standards and village roads
(about 10 miles) to the standards adopted by individual parishes. Both types
would be suitable for trucks and light vehicles. Access roads would be paved



with a double bituminous surface treatment, while village roads would be
constructed with a base course suitable for subsequent asphaltic overlay.
Their construction and maintenance would be the responsibility of the
Department of Roads and Works of the Parish Councils. Approximately 40
miles of farm roads and tracks would be the last link in the transport
chain to the individual farms; these would be unengineered earth tracks
on a nine-foot reservation distinct from the farm plots and would permit
access by tractor. The tracks would be maintained by the farmers.
1.19      Electricity and Water Supply:  Pole lines to the settlements
(about 9 miles) and branch lines in the villages (about 6 miles) for
electrical supply would be installed by the Rural Electrification Program.
The Jamaica Public Service Company (JPS) would provide the individual
house connections and supply the electricity. Adequate capacity is already
on hand in the vicinity of each settlement. Voltage is standard -- 220-volt
single-phase alternating. Eight of the nine settlement areas would be sup-
plied with piped water from the National Water Authority (NWA) network.
Water would be piped to each individual house. Only Leamington is so far
from an existing supply point that the cost of a water main would be
unreasonable. A storage tank would therefore be provided for each house in
Leamington, using the roof as the catchment area. Water supplied from the NWA
network is chlorinated at source and would be metered at each house. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that JPS and NWA would provide a
timely supply of electricity and water for the settlements.
1.20      Housing and Community Facilities:  The project includes financing
for the construction of 820 houses for full-time settlers, all in concrete
block with reinforced concrete columns and ties. Several alternative designs
have been investigated, resulting in cost savings of about 25% (at constant
prices), compared with designs constructed in 1974 and 1975 at the Govern-
ment's experimental settlement scheme at Caccoon Castle. Each house would
have a bedroom, living room, kitchen and bathroom, with a covered area of
300 sq ft. Designs are available for subsequent extensions up to about 500
sq ft. Walls would be in concrete block, with columns and ties in rein-
forced concrete for hurricane and earthquake resistance. Roofs would be
of corrugated metal on wooden trusses. Construction would be undertaken
by using small local contractors supervised by MOA. Materials would be pur-
chased locally by the Ministry and put at the contractors' disposal. Pre-
fabricated parts (wooden trusses, doors, windows and installations) would be
prepared for installation by local constructors or by the Ministry of
Housing's (MOH) Workshop in Kingston, with raw materials (timber, steel, and
such) purchased in bulk through international competitive bidding. Settlers
would be expected to prepare the sites for the houses and to complete the
interior furnishings of their houses (paint, ceiling and the like) themselves
with materials furnished by the MOA.
1.21      Community buildings would be provided at each of the settlement
areas, either through new construction or the renovation of existing facili-
ties. Each settlement would have an office for the site manager, a boxing



- 10 -
plant for bananas or plantains, a packing plant for vegetables, a warehouse
suitable for storing fertilizer and other agricultural inputs, and a commu-
nity hall. The latter would be used for agricultural training and other
education services provided by the Social Development Committee (SDC) of
the Ministry of Youth and Rura1 Development (MYRD) or the Ministry of Educa-
tion (MOE) (para. 2.04).
1.22      Soil Conservation and Forestation:  Because of topographical and
rainfall conditions in the settlement areas, erosion control is necessary
to maintain agricultural production and avoid shifting cultivation or low
intensity cropping patterns. The major part of the necessary soil conserva-
tion on the individual holdings would be constructed by the farmers them-
selves, with assistance from the Soil Conservation Officer following the
principles and guidelines established by the FAO/UNDP Forestry and Water-
shed Management Pilot Project. The project would provide for proper overall
surface water control on the sites and for forestation of the crucial water-
sheds bordering the cultivated areas.  In addition, a portion o  each holding
would be cleared and developed with direct settler participation so as to
provide each farmer with one acre of readily cultivable land. This is con-
sidered essantial in order to familiarize future settlers with soil conserva-
tion practices and to offer them a basis for immediate subsistence production.
The project would therefore include the construction of waterways and related
works, forestation of about 1,000 acres and land development of about 1,400
acres. The Soil Conservation Service and Forestry Division of the MOA would
plan and implement these programs. Maintenance of the forest would be the
responsibility of the Forestry Division. The maintenance of on-farm soil con-
servation works would be the responsibility of the farmer and a condition of
his lease.
1.23      Administration and Supervision:  While the agricultural program would
in principle be implemented by existing services of the MOA, with support from
the Parishes and other existing public agencies, specific personnel to coordi-
nate and supervise planning and implementation of the programs would be
needed. The project would therefore include provision for nine site managers
and one overall project coordinator, operating at the national and regional
levels. Each of the site managers would be provided with a four-whleel drive
vehicle. The site managers would be recruited as soon as active site planning
had commenced and would participate in the physcial planning of the sites and
supervise - as chairman of the settlement coordinating Committee at the parish
level - the development of the settlements. They would be stationed at the
sites for the entire development period of each settlement.
1.24      Farm Development:  The settlement sites vary considerably in topo-
graphy, climate, land capability and market accessibility. Rainfall averages
about 80 in. and is generally well distributed. The area is generally hilly,
with the bulk of the land having gradients between 100 and 30 .  The cultivable
land has moderately deep soils of good natural fertility and good internal drain-
age but is highly susceptible to erosion.  Although settlement would be limited
to lands with gradients under 20 , effective erosion control would be a pre-
requisite for successful farming. The parish extension and soil conserva-
tion officers would therefore assist farmers in preparing farm and crop
development plans which would include suitable soil conservation measures.



- 11 -
1.25      Depending on soil capability, each settler would receive six to
eight acres (a PLL II settler would receive enough to bring his total farm
area to this level), which he would in general manage with family labor.
Such holdings should enable settlers to reach the annual income of J$2,000
within a development period of about 5 years which Government considers a
minimum requirement to attract qualified settlers prepared to engage in full
time farming. In the first year after settlement, each settler would be
expected to cultivate mainly subsistence crops on the acre of land prepared
initially under the project (para 1.22). In subsequent years, he would expand
his cultivated area by at least one acre annually, mainly for cash crop
production, so that his farm would be fully developed after five years. The
land use and cropping patterns would be influenced heavily by physical and
market factors as well as by the experience and ambitions of the individual
settler. However, for the purpose of estimating the financial and economic
viability of the settlement component, the following cropping patterns have
been assumed, with full development after a period of eight to 13 years:
Total
Vege-     Banana/    Tree   Grass-   Sugar-  Acreage
Settlement Sites      Tubers   tables   Plantains   Crops   land    cane    per Farm
---------------------- (acres)  -------------------------
Montego Valley/York    0.5        0.5       5.0         -        -       -          6
Vaughansfield           0.5       0.5       5.0         -        -       -          6
Sweetwater              1.0       1.0       2.0        1.0      1.0      -          6
Kennilworth             1.0        -        2.0        2.0      1.0      -          6
Pellriver               0.5       0.5       2.0        3.0       -       -          6
Burnt Ground            0.5       3.5        -         1.0      2.0      -          7
Whitehall               0.5       1.5        -         3.0      3.0      -          8
Canaan Mountain         0.5       1.0        1.0        -       1.0     2.5         6
Leamington              0.25      1.75      2.0        1.0      2.0      -          7
Total settlement
acreage               610     1,310      2,270      1,130    840      240       6,400
1.26      Production development in the settlement would be based upon an
extension of the area cultivated from about 1,200 acres presently to 6,400
acres, the use of improved inputs and by doubling the prevailing yields which
are extremely low because of very poor cultivation practices, absence of
erosion control in the largely hilly settlement areas and neglect as a result
of part time farming. Full aggregate production for the settlements would
only be reached after about 15 years since it would involve long maturing tree
crops and the introduction of new farming system and because the implemen-
tation of the settlement program would be phased over three years. The
estimate of areas presently under production and prevailing yield levels in
the settlement areas as well as the yield crop area and product price assump-
tions underlying the projections for the incremental output are summarized in
the following table:



Actual and Projected Production Data
Estimated              Cultivated               Estimated Volume                           Value
Acre Yields           Area in Acres               of Production            Farmgate   Incremental
present                Present   Projected       At  Full                        Price    Production
Unit      range 2/ target 3/ Estimate   Estimate         Production  Incremental          (J$)         (J$)
Yams 1/           s. ton    4-6           10         100         370            3,700        3,200            300        960,000
Other tubers l/  s. ton    4-8             8         100         250            2,000        1,500            300        450,000
Beans 1/          s. ton  0.2-0.5          0.6        60         300              180          160            300         48,000
Onions            s. ton    2-4            8          10         230            1,840        1,810            460        832,600
Carrots           s. ton    3-5            8          10         440           3,520         3,480            240        835,200
Other vegetables s. ton    3-8             8          70         350           2,800         2,500            200        500,000
Banana 1/ export s. ton)   1-4             7        )500       1,820          12,740        10,740            120      1,288,800
Banana    local  s. ton)                   1        )                          1,820         1,820             40         72,800
Plantains 1/      s. ton    1-4            5         100         440            2,200        2,000            180        360,000           _
Coffee 1/         box 4/   20-80         150          50         300          45,000        42,500              6        255,000
Citrus 1/         box 4/  100-200        200          80         820         164,000       152,000              4        608,000
Orchard trees      -                       -          --        )840 5/           --           --               -        135,000
Coconuts          unit 6/                 30          --        )             12,600        12,600              9.80    117,600
Sugarcane         s. ton   15-25         30          120         240           7,200         4,800             18         86,400
Meat              cwt        --            3          --        )840 5/         2,520        2,360             55        129,800
Milk              qt         --          800          --        )            672,000       665,000              0.32    212,800
Total 7/         --        --          --       1,200        6,400              --           --              --     6,892,000
1/ Mostly intercropped.
2/ Average regional range, including mixed stands.
3/ After 5 years for annual crops and plantain, and 12 years for other crops.
4/ Coffee box = 60 lb, citrus box = 80 lb.
5/ Pasture land with coconut and orchard trees 50/50.
6/ Unit equivalent.
7/ Value actual production estimated at J$ 550,000.



- 13 -
1.27      The projected farm development and production are considered real-
istic, but farmers would require intensive technical support, particularly
in the initial period. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture would assign
to each settlement site one extension officer for the entire farm development
period and one soil conservation officer throughout the farm planning period.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from government during negotiations.
In addition, the farmers would need credit for production purposes as well as
for land development. JDB would provide about J$ 2.5 (US$2.7) million
in credit to farmers from the Self-Supporting Farmers' Development Programme
(SSFDP), which is partially financed by the Inter-American Development Bank
and extends loans at 4% to 6% interest p.a. for up to 7 years, including 3
years of grace. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that JDB
would provide adequate farm development and production credit. Loans would be
made on the basis of the individual farm development plans prepared by the
farmers with the assistance of the extension and soil conservation service.
Support for community development and social services would be provided by the
Ministries of Youth and Rural Development, Education and Health to ensure that
there was adequate access to vocational and formal education facilities and to
health services. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
1.28      Initially, most of the production would be used for subsistence
but as production increased, a growing share would be sold, reaching an
estimated 85% of production at full development. About half (bananas, coffee,
citrus and sugarcane) would be for export. The incremental amounts entering
the market due the project are, in general, small in relation to present
national output, except for bananas, citrus and coffee, for which the estimated
project output at full development would constitute about 5%, 7% and 17% of the
respective national production in 1974. However, given the decline in domestic
banana production and the stagnating supply of citrus and coffee on one side
and the strong domestic and foreign demand for these products on the other, no
difficulties are expected in selling the additional output, either on the
domestic or on the foreign markets. The present marketing system, based on
private intermediaries (higglers), commodity boards and the Government's Agri-
cultural Marketing Corporation, is not very efficient, but it is capable of
handling the project output and it is expected to improve with the implementa-
tion of a proposed marketing improvement scheme (para 1.05).
1.29      Regional Infrastructure.  Feeder Roads:  Under the project, about
70 miles of feeder roads and tracks in the Western Region would be improved
to all-weather standards. Detailed feasibility studies and priority rankings
for roads are under preparation by the Ministry of Works (MOW). Only roads
which have a rate of return on investment of not less than 10% would be built.
This methodology was previously employed for a USAID-financed feeder road proj-
ect and is acceptable to the Bank. It would be applied on 125 miles of roads
to select the 70 miles to be improved or constructed under the project. The
studies would include a comparison of the feasibility of two design standards,
one corresponding to the USAID project (at times requiring land acquisition
and considerable earthworks) and the other featuring a 12-foot carriageway
with lay-bys as required (intended to minimize construction costs and land
acquisition). In spite of the low traffic volumes (in general, less than 20



- 14 -
vehicles/day), surface treatment of the carriageway is justified in view of
the very poor performance in wet weather of the marly limestone generally
used as a base material since it is found within reasonable hauling distance.
Design would be by MOW. Satisfactory plans for feeder roads to be completed
in the first year of implementation have been prepared. During negotiations,
the feasibility studies and project road selection were reviewed and agreed
with Government. Construction would be carried out over three years with
about 70% done by force account and 30% under contract. This is well within
the capacities of the MOW and the local contracting industry, both of which
have benefitted from previous Bank and USAID projects. The MOW would super-
vise construction and maintain those feeder roads which are under national
jurisdiction. The maintenance of roads under parish jurisdiction would be
carried out by the Parish Councils. Since the project roads would have sealed
surfaces and proper drainage, the maintenance should be less than was pre-
viously needed. MOW and Parishes are expected to be capable of providing this
service satisfactorily (para. 2.04).
1.30      Markets:  The project would include construction and reconstruction
of nine parish markets, which play an important role in retail and wholesale
marketing. The M1G is presently designing these markets for the project area.
Detailed plans and designs for the first year's operations have been completed
and would be reviewed during negotiations. The markets would provide vendor
stalls for vegetables, fruit and grain and cold storage facilities for meat
and fish. The designs also allow for future expansion at at least two sites.
Total covered area per vendor would be about 70 sq ft. Of the nine markets,
seven would be new buildings with covered areas of from 10,000 to 25,000 sq
ft, either on present or new sites, whereas two existing facilities (Montego
Bay and Savanna-la-Mar) would be repaired and improved. All works would be
carried out by contractors, selected after competitive local bidding. Execu-
tion of the works would be phased over two and a half years. Construction
supervision would be carried out by the relevant Parish Councils, which would
also operate and maintain the markets when completed.
1.31      Charges imposed on vendors at the markets are presently very low and
vary from parish to parish. The MLG is presently reviewing the rate structure
in the light of its market improvement programs with a view to establishing
rates which would cover maintenance, operation, and capital costs. This
would, on average, mean an additional charge of about J$ 2/day/vendor over
the present charges, which range from J$ 2 to J$ 10/day. Present levels
of vendors' turnover and profits indicate that they could easily pay the
increased fees. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that MLG
and the Parish Councils would, within six months after loan signing, review
the user rate structure, and determine a schedule for introducing adjusted
charges that would fully recover operation and maintenance costs, as well as
capital expenditures at an annual interest of 8%.
1.32      Water Supplies:  The project would extend 37 existing water supply
systems, using plastic or asbestos cement pipe varying from 1 in. to 4 in. in
diameter (depending on the need of the individual system), and construct four
new systems. Public standpipes would be installed for the extensions, many of



- 15 -
which would run to nearby settlements, taking off from existing systems.
Seventeen new storage tanks would be required, plus 31 electrically powered
pumping units to replace those that are either worn out or not large enough
to supply the additional water needed for the extensions (standby units would
be provided for each installation). Additionally, 21 chlorinators, including
three for standby purposes, and steel covers for 21 open storage tanks would
be provided.
1.33      The water supply extension and new systems would be designed by
the Department of Roads and Works (DRW) of the individual Parish Councils,
reviewed by the NWA and cleared by the MLG. The DRWs would supervise con-
struction, which would be carried out by local sub-contractors, and would be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the systems. Water rates
are established by the Parish Councils on the advice of the NWA and with the
approval of MLG. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that existing
rates would be reviewed within six months of loan signing and that a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank for introducing a new rate structure would be deter-
mined, that would recover, to the extent practical, operation-, maintenance-
and capital costs. Construction programs implemented by parishes in recent
years indicate that all parishes, except St. Elizabeth, should have no
difficulty in carrying out the proposed program. As most of the schemes
included in the project are extensions of existing systems, operation and
maintenance should be within the capability of present staff, except in St.
Elizabeth where three new systems would be constructed, requiring additional
staff.
1.34      Sanitation:  In 1970, it was estimated that there were 8,400 house-
holds in Cornwall County with no means of excreta disposal. Today it is
believed that 17% of the population of Hanover Parish and 12% of the popula-
tion of St. Elizabeth Parish use the open fields, which poses the danger of
contaminating nearby streams and unprotected wells. Therefore, to obtain the
fullest benefit from a potable water supply system, the project would provide
for 6,000 sanitary privies at a cost of J$ 25 per privy and riser. Installa-
tion cost estimated at J$ 45 (labor and local material) would be contributed
by the individual beneficiary. The Ministry of Public Health and Environ-
mental Control would carry out a campaign with the sanitary inspectors in the
parishes of Cornwall County to identify households without adequate means of
excreta disposal and willing to install their own latrines. The concrete
slabs and risers would be made in each parish by the DRWs of the Parish
Councils and would be distributed in accordance with the suggestions of the
sanitary inspectors. Each householder would be assisted by a sanitary
inspector in locating the site of his latrine and instructed on the depth and
size of hole to be dug and on the construction of a simple building to house
the facilities.  The campaign would be coordinated with the various water
supply schemes contemplated under the project.



- 16 -
II. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Costs
2.01      Total project cost is estimated at US$31.4 million, of which US$8.5
million, or 27%, would be foreign exchange. The cost estimates were based at
the time of appraisal on data representing end of 1975 costs. These costs
were subsequently updated to January 1977 to reflect the cost increases due
to the inflation during calendar year 1976, and include physical contingencies
of US$2.6 million, or 10.5% of baseline project costs and a price contingency
of US$4 million, or 16h, of baseline costs, to cover expected price increases
over the three-year implementation period. Physical contingencies vary
between 5% and 20%, depending upon the amount of detailed information available
with regard to the individual investment items financed by the project. Price
contingencies have been determined on the base of the Bank's price projections.
The rates used for civil works are 9% for 1977-79 and 8% for 1980. For equip-
ment these rates are 7.5% for 1977-79 and 7% for 1980, and for other invest-
ment items these rates are 8% for 1977 and 7% for 1978-80. About 50% of the
project investment would be for agricultural settlement, 37% for economic and
social infrastructure, and 13% for supporting the reorganization of the MOA.
Approximately 90% of investment would be directed to the Western Region, while
10% would have no regional focus. A summary of costs is shown below:



- 17 -
%      % of
US$ million          Foreign   Base
Support for                      Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange  Cost
Ministry of Agriculture
Regional and
local offices                   1.2    0.3        1.5        20       6
Staff housing                     0.5    0.3        0.8         30      3
Training                          0.3    0.3        0.6         50       3
Vehicles                            -    0.2        0.2        100       1
Subtotal                  2.0    1.1       3.1         35      13
Agricultural Settlement
Land acquisition                  4.0       -       4.0          0     16
Physical planning                 0.5    0.1        0.6         15      2
Settlement roads                  1.7    0.8        2.5         30     10
Electrification                   0.1    0.1        0.2         50      1
Water supply                      0.3    0.2        0.5         50       2
Farm housing                      1.6    0.5        2.1         25      8
Community facilities              0.4    0.2        0.6         25      3
Soil conservation and
forestation                     1.2    0.1        1.3         10      5
Administration and
supervision                     0.6    0.1       0.7         20       3
Subtotal                 10.4    2.1      12.5         17      50
Regional Infrastructure
Feeder roads                      2.3    1.2        3.5         35     14
Markets                            1.9    0.7       2.6         25     10
Water supply                       1.4    1.5       2.9         50     12
Sanitation                        0.1    0.1        0.2         40      1
Subtotal                  5.7    3.5       9.2         38     37
Base Cost                        18.1    6.7       24.8         27    100
Contingencies:  Physical           1.9    0.7       2.6         27     10
Price            2.9    1.1        4.0        27      16
Total                    22.9    8.5      31.4         27    126
Financing
2.02      The project would be financed by a Government contribution of
US$16.4 million equivalent of local currency and a Bank loan of US$15 million.
The Bank loan would thus finance 48% of the project cost and, in addition to
its foreign exchange content, cover 28% of the project's local cost. Local
cost financing would absorb 43% of the Bank loan, which would be justified
on the basis of estimates that capital inflows into Jamaica, if restricted to
the foreign exchange components of projects, would not be sufficient to meet
the foreign exchange requirements of the total public investment program and
estimated debt service liabilities.



- 18 -
2.03      The Bank loan would finance 100% of foreign cost of vehicles and 55%
of all other project expenditure items except land acquisition which would not
be financed from loan funds. Details of the financing of individual investment
components would be as follows:
Financed by:
Total Cost    Government            Bank
----------- US$ '000 -____-__
Support for MOA
Regional and local offices              1,506             686             820
Staff housing                             808             388             420
Training                                  550             250             300
Vehicles                                  200               -             200
Subtotal                         3,064           1,324           1,740
Agricultural Settlement
Land acquisition                        4,000           4,000             -
Physical planning                         550             250             300
Settlement roads                        2,486           1,132           1,354
Electrification                           246             112              134
Water supply                              484             222              262
Farm housing                            2,140             980           1,160
Community facilities                      610             280             330
Soil conservation, forestation          1,291             591             700
Administration and supervision            650             290              360
Subtotal                        12,457           7,857           4,600
Regional Infrastructure
Feeder roads                            3,522           1,604           1,918
Markets                                 2,618           1,198           1,420
Water supply                            2,944           1,344           1,600
Sanitation                                186              84             102
Subtotal                         9,270           4,230           5,040
Contingencies                              6,609           2,989           3,620
Total                           31,400          16,400          15,000
% of total                         100            52.2            47.8
2.04      The Government would be the borrower, and would bear the foreign ex-
change risk. It would, through annual budget appropriation, provide adequate
funds to cover project cost to be borne by the borrower, which would be ad-
ministered by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). In addition, the Government



- 19 -
would provide the MOW and the Parish Councils with adequate funds to maintain
the public roads constructed under the project, and the MPH, MYRD and MOE with
funds to be used for servicing the new settlements. It would also assure the
availability of funds for farm development and crop credit to new settlers.
Suitable assurances were obtained from Government on these matters during
negotiations.
Procurement
2.05      Items to be procured under the project include civil works, vehicles
and services. Civil works on the settlement sites would include farm house
construction and associated electricity and water supply, roads, and community
facilities. The remaining civil works would consist of rural feeder roads,
markets, water supply and sanitation schemes, and office and housing facili-
ties for the MOA. Civil works, estimated to cost about US$22 million in
the aggregate, would be widely scattered geographically and their construction
would extend over three years. The largest package of contracts is expected
to amount to no more than about US$0.8 million, which makes it unlikely that
it would be attractive to many foreign bidders. Furthermore, the shortage of
a sufficient number of qualified local contractors, the desirability of using
labor-intensive construction methods and mostly small contractors located near
the construction sites would limit the opportunties for local competitive
bidding. For these reasons, about two-thirds of the civil works (on-settle-
ment works, regional water supply and sanitation schemes, and about two-thirds
of the feeder roads), valued at about US$14 million, would be procured on the
basis of individually negotiated contracts with eligible contractors or force
account. Eligible contractors would be those registered as local contractors
with the parish councils. The individual or package value of such contracts
would not exceed US$50,000. Civil works by force account traditionally contain
a significant number of petty contracts for labor, materials supply and
equipment rental which are either negotiated or follow established Government
rates. Force account works of this type are expected to account for about
half of the aforementioned US$14 million civil works costs. The remaining
one-third of the civil works, valued at about US$8 million, would include
one-third of the rural feeder roads, markets, the larger settlement community
facilities, regional offices and part of the water supply systems. In the
case of contracts estimated to cost below US$250,000, procurement would be
through local competitive bidding, open for foreign bidders, in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In the case of contracts over
US$250,000, awards would be made after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for procurement.
2.06      Vehicles for the MOA with an estimated total value of US$0.2 million
would be procured by internationally advertised competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Guidelines for procurement. Bidders would be required to
guarantee acceptable arrangements for the suppi' of spare parts.  Bids would
be evaluated by the Government Contract Awards Comittee. The services pro-
vided under the project are valued at US$1.9 million. They include expendi-
tures for the staff training program of the MOA and for planning, design,



- 20 -
administration and supervision of the settlement component. About two-thirds
of these services would be carried out under force account by the MOA. The
rest with an aggregate value of about US$0.6 would be contracted in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for consulting services. All contracts with an aggre-
gate value exceeding US$250,000 would be reviewed by the Bank before bids are
invited or contracts awarded.
Disbursement
2.07      The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of three and a half
years. Disbursements would be made against 55% of total expenditure for
civil works, training, physical planning, administration and supervision, and
against 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles. Land acquisition would
not be financed from the loan. Disbursements would be made against document-
ation; except for civil works and services carried out under force account,
the Bank would disburse against unsupported statements of expenditure on
the understanding that the supporting documents not submitted to the Bank
would be retained by the borrower and made available to the Bank staff for
inspection during supervision. Any undisbursed loan funds after completion
of the project would be cancelled. Retroactive financing up to US$1 million
would be permitted for expenditures made after July 31, 1976 for engineering
and construction of feeder roads, markets and the physical planning of the
settlement areas.
2.08      The estimated schedule for Bank disbursements would be as follows:
IBRD Fiscal            Disbursement             Cumulative
Year and             During Quarter          Disbursements
Quarter                 Ending            at End of Quarter
 ------------- US$   '000______________
1978  1st                  500 /1                   500
2nd                1,000                    1,500
3rd                1,000                    2,500
4th                1,100                    3,600
1979  1st                1,100                    4,700
2nd                1,200                    5,900
3rd                1,200                    7,100
4th                1,200                    8,400
1980  1st                1,300                    9,700
2nd                1,300                   11,000
3rd                1,300                   12,300
4th                1,300                   13,600
1981  1st                1,000                   14,600
2nd                  400                   15,000
/1   Estimated date of loan signing, July 1977.
Estimated date of effectiveness, August 1977.



- 21 -
Accounts and Audit
2.09      The Ministry of Finance would administer the project funds and
maintain appropriate financial records which would reflect expenditures made
by each participating agency and for each investment category. At the
beginning of each financial year, it would make appropriate budgetary allo-
cations equivalent to the estimated annual expenditures of the participating
agencies (para. 3.01) as approved by the Interministerial Standing Committee
for Land Reform and Rural Development (paras 1.11 and 3.01). Each partici-
pating agency would maintain separate accounts for all expenditures incurred
in the implementation of the respective project components. All vouchers and
documents would be verified and approved before payment by the agency's own
auditing section. The accounts of each agency would be subject to independent
auditing by the Auditor General whose audit report would be submitted to the
Bank within four months of the end of each year. During negotiations,
assurance were obtained from the Government on these matters.
III. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Responsibilities
3.01      Overall responsibility for project execution would rest with the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which would nominate a Project Coordinator,
attached to the Permanent Secretary's Office of the MOA in Kingston, to assist
in carrying out this function. Individual project components would be imple-
mented by the following participating agencies: the Ministries of Agriculture,
Works (MOW), Housing (MOH), Local Government (MLG), and Public Health and
Environmental Control (MPH), the Rural Electrification Program, the Jamaica
Public Service Company (JPS) and the Parish Councils through their Departments
of Roads and Works (DRW). In addition the Ministry of Education (MOE), the
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC), the Jamaica Development Bank (JDB)
through the Self-Supporting Farmers Development Programme (SSFDP), the Social
Development Commission (SDC) and the Jamaica Agricultural Society (JAS) would
provide complementary or supporting services for the development of the
settlements after their establishment. A diagram of the relations between
the agencies involved is shown on the next page.
3.02      The MOA would be responsible for its own reorganization and for the
detailed planning and implementation of the settlements. It would arrange
for contractor-provided designs, engineering, construction and construction
supervision of the office and staff facilities included in the project; it
would implement the training program; and it would make appropriate arrange-
ments for the procurement of vehicles (paras 1.11, 1.12, 2.05).
3.03      Implementation of the settlement component would be the direct
responsibility of the Western Regional Office of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, acting through the site managers stationed at the settlement sites
for the entire development period. Complementary services would be provided



PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR PROJECT IPLEMIENTLTION
Interinsijterial
,inistrY                                Standing Comittee
Finance                      ~~~~~~on Land Reform and
Rural Development
*                           Pe~~~~~...  rmanent**a*
iistr                                       Sretary of   .ini.try                                   Ministry                          Ministry*
of Minisry of                                                                                    of Develoleent    f Loc of
grculture                                 Agriculture           ~                  ofsn           and Esv,i-       Goen               ok
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ Edcto                                                                                   ronrojtel
Deveist ry t *-                                                    Coord6 r  inatorfroation
_Coministrynof Ruraa                                                                                                       Control
..D. ..                                                                                                                                        _;velopment  .   ...
I____         _    .   D      o  o*                                  Projects
------------- ra      the    nral
Social                                                                                     Electri-
Development                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fication
Deeoeiety     j                                                                            Pro, Cr
*~~                                          Cnnmitteeo of Lad
Jamaica     *Water
Development                                                                                                                                            hntY
.0k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| -Regional
Agricultural *       D ctro
|! F  rthe. Ministry
IDi     n Jamaea:Regional
Agriculure     .....................Technical
Coriultur.Coordina   .
m J                                .ting
:C onittee
,Settiement      @|Dprae       
Cordinaing       :|o
s ~~~~~~~~~~~Cousaittee                                                                           Wok   f the                      Inspectors
n   of                         i |   | Divisi onti
|rEicuneeringt|   | rgriculture
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Stlmn DiviionrtmeOfice
|articipating  Supporting  Coosrdinati|    ArpeeEentingAgenciediectlyorndirectyirepresenteo    te and                                           ie              a
Agencies  Aencies  Bodes            Functios               Function                  Standing   oasitComiotLandWRefomoandtLandDevelopmen
Reorganiz-tWorsimaage
|~ ~ ~~~~~~~o  Agricultura ofivigSion                             tIeme                                                                                           nratutr
1 4criewlture   1 1Engin__ing                  Agrcultura
I .  .    71  ~--------------?  ..........
Participating       Supporting         Corintn  ...             mnta               ordntn                   A&-ries directly or indirectly represented in the Intermtinister-
Agencies            Agencies            Bodies             Functions              Functions                 Standing COatittee On Land Reform and Land Development



- 23 -
by the Commissioner of Lands for the acquisition of the settlement sites that
have not yet been purchased (para 1.16). The MOH and other constructors would
handle the provision of house building materials, while the Rural Electri-
fication Program and JPS would take care of the electricity supply (para
1.19), and the Parish Councils, through their DRWs, would asist in building
settlement infrastructure (para 1.18). The provision of support services for
farm development would also be the responsibility of the Western Regional
Office (paras 1.23 and 1.27). In addition, JDB, through SSFDP, would supply
credit to settlers and would also act as a banking agent to collect interest
and mortgage payments from the farmers for farm houses (para 1.27). An
assurance on this was obtained at negotiations. The SDC would have respon-
sibility for providing social services to settlers, including vocational
training and the promotion of farmers' organizations. The MPH and the MOE
would, after completion of settlement, review appropriate arrangements for the
provision of adequate health and education services (para 1.27, 2.04).
3.04      The MOW would be responsible for the planning and construction of
feeder roads in the Western Region. The Ministry would carry out feasibility
studies for 125 miles of roads and select - according to their economic
justification - 70 miles of roads to be included under the project. It would,
in accordance with the contracting industry's and the MOW's construction
capacity, determine which part would be constructed by private contractors
and which by force account. The MOW would supervise the construction of
feeder roads. Their maintenance would be the responsibility of the DRW's of
the Parish Councils and the MOW (para 1.29, 2.04).
3.05      The MLG would be responsible for implementing the market compo-
nent. It would prepare designs and engineering specifications and let the
contracts for works to be carried out by contractors. The construction
would be supervised by the DRWs of individual Parish Councils, who would also
operate and maintain the markets. The Ministry would, in consultation with
the Parish Councils, review the present user rates and design a user charge
system for the markets which would recover all operation and maintenance
costs, as well as capital expenditures at 8% interest, and establish a sche-
dule, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing the adjusted rat) structure
(paras 1.30 and 1.31).
3.06      The MLG through the Parish Councils would also implement the water
supply component included in the project. The DRWs of the Parish Councils
would design the water supply extensions, which would be reviewed by the
NWA and cleared by the MLG. The DRWs would supervise construction and would
also be responsible for maintenance and collection of water charges. The MLG
and the Parish Councils would, after completion of construction review the
present water charges and introduce a rate structure which would, to the
extent practical and agreed to by the Bank, recover operation, maintenance and
part or all of the capital cost (paras 1.32 and 1.33).
3.07      The Ministry of Public Health would be responsible for implement-
ing the sanitation component of the project and would carry out a campaign
to identify the households that had no sanitary facilities but were prepared
to participate in the program. The DRWs of the Parish Councils would prepare



- 24 -
the designs and materials lists, which, after review by the MLG, would be
submitted to the NWA for approval. The Parish Councils would procure the
material, while construction and installation would be carried out by the
beneficiaries, with the assistance of the DRW (para 1.34). During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would assume the
administrative responsibilities and follow the procedures as outlined in
paragraphs 3.01 through 3.07.
Coordination
3.08      The existing Interministerial Standing Committee on Land Reform
and Rural Development, which is chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the
MOA, would supervise the project and assure the timely and coordinated imple-
mentation of all project components. The present Committee is functioning
satisfactorily. It would be enlarged to represent all agencies directly
involved in the implementation of the project, would meet at least every three
months to review progress on the basis of a consolidated quarterly progress
report prepared by the project coordinator (para 3.11). Agency coordination
at the regional level would be the function of the Technical Coordinating
Committee attached to the Western Regional Director's Office. Coordination in
the implementation of the settlements would be the responsibility of the site
manager. The latter would report monthly to the Regional Technical
Coordinating Committee, and quarterly to the Project Coordinator. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that the Inter-
ministerial Standing Committee would include representatives of all parti-
cipating and supporting agencies directly involved in project implementation
and that it would meet at the indicated intervals.
Implementation
3.09      The project would be implemented over a three-and-a-half year
period, starting in second half of calendar 1977. Plans 1/ for the reorgani-
zation of the MOA have been finalized, and implementation has commenced at
the end of 1976. The Cabinet's formal decision to implement the reorgani-
zation plan would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The main institu-
tional changes contemplated would be introduced in the second half of 1977 and
the rest would be implemented over the life of the project. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the reorganization would be carried out in the
lifetime of the project in accordance with the approved plans. Reallocation
of technical services in the regions would extend over two years. The Western
Regional Office has been established and the parish managers, including the
majority of their respective staffs, and the site managers for the settlements
included in the first year's implementation program have been positioned or
identified. Implementation of other components in support of the regional-
ization of the Ministry of Agriculture would extend over the full three years
of the project. Settlers would be selected and settled on farm lots from
end-1977 until mid-1980. The construction of farm houses, settlement infra-
structure, community facilities, and soil conservation measures would extend
1/   Outlined in detail in the "Review of Reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture."



- 25 -
entire life of the project. Construction of both roads and markets is ex-
pected to start mid 1977 and extend into mid-1979, while implementation of the
water supply and sanitation systems would start in mid-1977, with construction
extending to the end of the project.
3.10      A tentative implementation schedule is provided overleaf.  A com-
prehensive plan of operation, and a schedule of implementation for the entire
project, has been prepared by the Government and discussed at negotiations.
Reporting
3.11      Each participating agency and the site managers would prepare
quarterly reports which would give a concise picture of the status of imple-
mentation of their respective project components. These progress reports
would be submitted to the Project Coordinator who would consolidate them into
a single report to be presented quarterly to the Interministerial Standing
Committee on Land Reform and Rural Development (para 3.08). This report would
also serve as the quarterly progress report to be sent to the Bank. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
Evaluation
3.12      Project evaluation would be performed on a continuous basis by the
Data Bank and Evaluation Division (see page 5) in the Ministry of Agriculture.
An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
4.01      Essentially the Bank loan would support a project that constitutes
an important aspect of Government's rural development policies, which aim at
revitalizing the rural economy and curbing the exodus of the rural population
to the towns by stimulating agriculture production and improving economic and
social infrastructure in the rural areas.
Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture
4.02      The reorganization of the Ministry and the regionalization of its
technical services would provide the basis for more effective services to
the farming community and also widen their coverage. The training program
included in the project would, in addition, contribute to an improvement of
the quality of the services. Total project investment for the reorganization
of the Ministry would be about US$20 per existing farm. The economic benefits
of the program are difficult to determine with any degree of certainty, but
the contemplated investment would yield an acceptable rate of return of 10% if
aggregate national production would, as a result of the reorganization,
increase by one-quarter of one percent annually. This can be considered a



- 26 -
Tentative Implementation Schedule
Responsi-    Preprojct   I                ProijeCt
bility        1976        1977    1  1978         1979       1980
Reorganization of Ministry
Institutional Reform            MOA                                          _ _ _  _  _  _  _
Establishment of:               MOA
Regional Office West         MOA                  _ _ _           _
Others                       MOA                           _ _  _  _         _
Staff Houses:
Planning                     MOA
Construction                 MOA                                 _       _
Training                                                            _  = =   =        = _  =
Agricultural Settlements
Land Acquisition                MOA, LDUC         _ _ _  _   _
Physical Planning               MOA              _  _ = =  = =  _  _ _  _
Settler Selection               /1
Settlement Infrastructure    DRW, MOA                     _                              -
Farmers Housing                 MOH, MOA         _ _  _ _  _        _   _   _  _   _   _  =   =
Community Facilities            DRW, MOA                     - _ _  _ _ _  _  _ =
Soil Conservation               MOA /2,/3
Forestation                     MOA 7                  - _    _  _   - _   _   _  _   _   _
Settlement                      MOA 77,|5                          _     - _   _   _  _   _   _   _
Farm Development                MOA 7                                        -,7  - _ _ _ _  - _
Regional Infrastructure
Roads                           MOA                          _ _  _  _ _  _   _
Markets                         MLG                          _  _   _   =   =   -
Water Supply Sanitation:
Planning                     MPH, NWA             _   _     _ _  _
Construction                 DRW                     _  _ _ _  _  _  _        _ _  _  _  _
/1 Selection Committee.
77 Site Manager of Settlements.
77 Soil Conservation Officer of MOA.
74 Forestry Division of MOA.
75 Land Lease Officer (PLL).
76 Area (Agricultural) Extension Officer.



- 27 -
conservative assumption, given the significant impact the reorganization is
expected to have on the effectiveness of agricultural technical services and
the extensive possibilities which exist for improving the generally poor
agricultural practices by introducing known and available farm practices and
improved inputs.
Agricultural Settlement
4.03      The project's settlement component would ultimately result in the
establishment of about 820 small but financially viable farms and bring
another 580 small units up to a viable size, which, after full development,
would increase the national agricultural output in value terms by about 4%
above national output in 1974. The agricultural activities would create full
employment for about 3,000 people, excluding the employment opportunities
that would result from constructing civil works and providing improved rural
services, and from the increased commercial activity expected to accompany
agricultural development. Equally important would be the improvement and
streamlining of technical and institutional procedures for settlement, which
is a key element in Government efforts to alleviate the country's land tenure
problems. The project would also strengthen agricultural administrative
capabilities to deal, in an orderly and effective way, with the transfer of
land from large underutilized holdings to small family farms, thus paving the
way for an intensification of land use.
4.04      The soil conservation and forestation contemplated for the settle-
ment areas and the stipulated procedures for land development would constitute
the first effort to implement, in a practical and financially viable way,
soil conservation practices that have been developed during long-term experi-
mentation.
4.05      The beneficiaries of the settlement component would be the 1,400
farm families to be settled in the area; however about an equal number of the
rural population of the area surrounding the new settlements would also
benefit from improved access roads and better community facilities financed by
the Project. With the expected agricultural development, it is assumed that
the new villages would absorb additional people engaged in service activities,
which might grow in time to about one-third of the agricultural population.
The basic settlement infrastructure provided under the project would be
sufficient to accommodate and benefit these additional people. The lands
acquired or to be acquired for the Project will be owned by the Government and
about 40% of these lands will be leased to settlement farm families. The
balance of these lands are to be used for road construction, village develop-
ment, watershed management and reforestation of the area that is unsuitable
for cultivation.
4.06      The costs attributed to the settlement of the 1,400 farm families
included in the settlement component of the project would be about US$6,000
per beneficiary (including contingencies). These costs include land
preparation, housing, water and electricity supply, settlement planning and



- 28 -
SUMMIARY OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FOR FARM DEVELOPMENT IN SETTLEMENTS
(in ,J$)
Years .. .1     2       3       4      5       6       7       8      9       10      11      12      13      14      15
Montego Valley
Investment cost          2,235    755    755    755    755
Production cost          1,526  1,906  2,538  2,930  3,491  3,811  4,031  4,072  4,103  4,185  4,260  4,335  4,410  4,410  4,410
Gross benefit            1,540  2,210  3,600  4,870  6,740  7,140  7,400  7,400  7,170  6,950  6,730  6,720  6,820  7,040  8,400
Net benefit             (2,221)  (451)   307  1,185  1,894  3,329  3,369  3,328  3,067  2,765  2,470  2,385  2,410  2,630  2,870
Rate of return:    45%
Cash balance               746    959  1,180  1,978  2,867  3,826  4,509  4,593  4,417  4,170  3,930  3,930  4,050  4,290  5,830
Vaughansfield
Investment cost          2,310    830    830    830    830
Production cost          1,636  2,001  2,608  3,000  3,561  3,831  4,051  4,092  4,123  4,205  4,280  4,355  4,430  4,430  4,430
Gross benefit            1,240  2,030  3,060  4,210  5,480  6,480  6,990  6,990  6,870  6,630  6,390  6,270  6,510  6,750  5,110
Net benefit             (2,706)  (801)  (378)   380  1,089  2,649  2,939  2,898  2,747  2,425  2,110  1,915  2,080  2,320  3,680
Rate of return:    29%
Cash balance               463    799  1,077  1,418  2,347  3,347  3,702  4,363  4,287  4,040  3,800  3,680  3,920  4,160  5,520
Sweetwater
Investment cost          1,612  1,189  1,347    844    584
Production cost          1,075  1,385  1,665  2,545  3,225  3,130  3,340  3,300  3,450  3,400  3,500  3,400  3,500  3,400  3,400
Gross benefit              987  1,803  2,334  3,223  4,296  5,223  5,402  5,505  5,848  6,028  6,020  6,028  6.028  6,028  7,403
Net benefit             (1,640)  (771)  (678)  (166)   487  2,093  2,062  2,205  2,398  2,628  2,528  2,628  2,528  2,628  4,003
Rate of return:    29.5%
Cash balance               538    733    952    907  1,810  2,936  3,015  3,785  4,028  4,308  4,208  4,308  4,208  4,308  5,683
Kennilworth
Investment cost          2,102  2,917    999    326    196
Production cost            740  1,615  2,195  2,805  3,260  3,335  3,415  3,420  3,785  3,765  3,760  3,755  3,810  3,860  3,885
Gross benefit            1,334  3,097  3,884  4,493  4,791  4,997  5,468  5,871  6,017  5,982  5,932  5,932  6,042  6,162  7,762
Net benefit             (1,508)(1,435)   690  1,362  1,335  1,662  2,053  2,451  2,232  2,217  2,172  2,177  2,232  2,302  3,877
Rate of return:    40%
Cash balance               820  1,513  1,508  2,185  2,348  2,570  2,901  3,389  3,877  3,867  3,822  3,792  3,932  4,052  5,652
Peltriver
Investment cost          2,205    800    845    845    785    205    205
Production cost          1,320  1,800  2,190  2,455  2,680  2,735  3,005  3,215  3,445  3,445  3,595  3,525  3,545  3,545  3,545
Gross benefit            1,565  2,150  2,855  3,775  4,835  5,155  5,685  6,214  6,499  6,787  6,999  7,299  7,575  7,693  9,725
Net benefit             (1,960)  (450)  (180)   475  1,370  2,215  2,475  3,000  3,054  3,342  3,404  3,774  4,030  4,148  6,180
Rate of return:    39%
Cash balance               894  1,138    958    897  1,892  2,267  3,545  5,125  4,314  4,702  4,814  5,214  5,490  5,608  5,720
Burntground
Investment cost          1,557  1,723    768    805    535
Production cost          1,225  1,915  2,510  3,033  3,450  3,620  3,545  3,660  3,655  3,633  3,658  3,658  3,658  3,658  3,658
Gross benefit            1,375  2,123  2,838  3,781  5,140  5,981  6,960  7,392  7,698  7,785  7,785  7,785  7,785  7,785  7,785
Net benefit             (1,407)(1,515)  (440)  ( 57) 1,155  2,361  3,415  3,732  4,043  4,152  4,127  4,127  4,127  4,127  4,127
Rate of return:    38%
Cash balance               270    392    589  1,012  2,549  3,720  5,015  5,402  5,663  5,777  5,777  5,792  5,792  5,792  6 932
Whitehall
Investment cost          1,477  1,281  1,538  1,418    775    537
Production cost          1,127  1,612  1,997  2,483  2,836  3,287  3,553  3,734  3,815  3,885  3,915  3,930  3,939  3,930  3,930
Gross benefit            1,800  2,055  3,089  3,532  4,118  4,949  6,017  6,975  7,910  8,385  8,640  8,815  8,815  8,815 10,720
Net benefit               (804)  (838)  (446)  (369)   507  1,125  2,464  3,241  4,095  4,500  4,725  4,885  4,885  4,885  6,790
Rate of return:    427.
Cash balance             1,036    385  1,826  1,128  1,183  2,018  3,490  4,427  5,860  6,315  6,570  6,745  6,745  6,745  8,650
Canaan Mountain
Investment cost          1,315  1,391  1,004    353    208
Production cost          1,040  1,909  2,143  3,050  3,185  3,255  3,305  3,375  3,247  3,486  3,483  3,520  3,562  3,580  3,580
Gross benefit              800  1,620  2,779  3,853  4,839  5,448  5,946  6,287  6,385  6,367  6,286  6,520  6,772  6,880  7,875
Net benefit             (1,555)(1,680)  (368)   450  1,446  2,193  2,641  2,912  3,138  2,881  2,803  3,000  3,210  3,300  4,295
Rate of return:    34%
Cash balance               730    573    727    984  1,980  2,572  3,080  4,287  4,383  4,381  4,303  4,500  4,710  4,801  5,795
Leamington
Investment cost          1,350  1,753  1,113    650    455
Production cost          1,115  1,580  2,040  2,790  3,325  3,375  3,605  3,600  3,700  3,615  3,640  3,640  3,640  3,640  3,640
Gross benefit              960  2,036  2,886  3,876  4,838  5,962  6,374  6,684  7,107  7,287  7,287  7,287  7,287  7,287  7,287
Net benefit             (1,505)(1,297)  (267)   436  1,058  2,587  2,769  3,084  3,407  3,407  3,647  3,647  3,647  3,647  3,647
Rate of return:    38%
Cash balance               397    528    789  1,507  2,474  3,833  4,464  4,779  5,102  5,367  5,342  5,342  5,342  5,342  6,992
NOTE:  Investment and production costs include all labor costs; gross benefits are inclusive of cash subsidies; and net benefits
include an imputed residual value in year 15 for fixed investments in land and crop development.  The cash balance reflects
the operational cash surplus/deficit between sales, cash subsidies and SSFDP-loan funds as inflow and investment cost,
production cost (both net of family labor) and debt service as outflow.
July 1976



- 29 -
administration, settlement roads (excluding half of the costs of the access
and village roads) and half of the costs of community facilities. Although
the settlement investment costs are relatively high, the planned investments
are essential to allow for the projected agricultural development and in view
of the extensive infrastructure investments that must be made in areas that in
the past have received little or no such investment. The possibility of
reducing the cost per beneficiary through an increase in the number of
settlers was ruled out since it would imply a reduction in the size of the
farms to be established. Farms smaller than the proposed 5 to 8 acre units
would not provide full employment of the farm family (and thus perpetuate
part-time farming) and would also have income generating capacity below the
level to attract qualified settlers on a permanent basis. The settlement
approach proposed and its implicit high cost per beneficiary ratio are there-
fore justified as a least cost solution to meet the objectives of the settle-
ment component.
4.07      Benefits to the settlers have been estimated on the basis of nine
site specific farm models considered illustrative of the expected farm deve-
lopment in the various settlements, given their agricultural potential and
the expected availability of intensive technical assistance to farmers over
the entire development period (paras 1.20 through 1.25). The financial
results of the expected farm development indicate the financial viability and
attractiveness of the contemplated farm operations. A summary of the finan-
cial projections for the agricultural development models for the settlement is
given overleaf. The unweighted average financial rates of return calculated
for these models on the basis of expected market prices at farm gate, expressed
in constant end-1975 prices and including subsidies prevailing at the end of
1975 for inputs and outputs, 1/ would be 37%. If the Government subsidy
program would be discontinued this rate would decline to about 20%. An
increase of investment and operating cost by 20% over the "best estimate"
would reduce the rate to 31% and 24%, respectively. Twenty percent lower
gross benefits would reduce the financial rate of return to 18%, and a delay
of one year in the beginning of production activities after the on-farm
investment would reduce the rate to 29%. The combination of an increase of
10% in each investment and operating cost, a reduction of gross benefits by
10% and a one-year lag between on-farm investment and the start of farm
operation would result in a rate of return of 11%. Provided the farmer
receives credit for farm and crop development of about J$ 1,750 per full-time
farm to meet initial capital investment and operation expenses, the estimated
average annual net farm income in terms of end-1975 prices would increase from
J$ 1,030 in the first year of farm operation to J$ 3,160 after 5 years,
varying between J$ 2,180 and J$ 3,870, depending upon the individual settle-
ment site. The potential income at full development after 15 years would be
about J$ 7,300. Excluding direct input and price subsidies, the average
income after 5 years would be about J$ 2,100 2/ and J$ 6,300 at full develop-
ment. The summarized results of the financial projections for each settlement
site model are given below:
1/   Direct subsidies are presently paid for land preparation, soil conserva-
tion, hillside farming, planting materials, fertilizer, pest control and
for bananas and citrus.
2/   Equivalent to the annual wage of a skilled agricultural laborer.



- 30 -
Financial Rates of Return                Net Farm Income
Best                                         in J$ in Year
Estimated    Al    A2    A3    A4            1          5       15
(Full
Development)
Montego Valley      45         38    29    21    34         1,146      3,867    6,930
Vaughansfield       29         25    16    10    24           863      3,347    6,520
Sweetwater          30         25    18    13    24           838      2,810    6,683
Kennilworth         40         31    24    15    28         1,220      3,348    6,652
Pell river          39         34    28    21    31         1,294      2,892    6,720
Burnt Ground        38         33    26    21    31           670      3,549    7,932
Whitehall           42         35    29    22    32         1,436      2,183    9,650
Canaan Mountain    34          30    22    17    29         1,030      2,980    6,795
Leamington          38         33    26    20    29           797      3,474    7,992
Al:  Increase in farm investment cost by 20%.
A2:  Increase in farm operating cost by 20%.
A3: Reduction of gross farm benefits by 20%.
A4: Slippage of farm operation by one year.
4.08      The financial rates of return for the model farms would be high and
would remain satisfactory should unexpected changes in input and output prices
occur or should production performance remain below expected levels. Simi-
larly satisfactory are expected levels of farm income which meet both the
Government target of J$ 2,000 per family a year and the expectations of the
population. They are, therefore, considered adequate to stimulate a wide and
lasting interest in participation in agricultural settlements.
4.09      The estimated aggregate economic rate of return for the settlement
component would be 19%. This has been calculated on the basis of expected
farmgate prices, expressed in end-1975 values adjusted for subsidies and
taxes, and applying a shadow wage rate for unskilled labor equivalent to
50% of the rates paid by the Government on state farms and a shadow exchange
rate for project-related exports and imports of J$ I = US$0.80 (as compared to
an official rate of J$ 1 = US$1.1) to correct distortions in the cost of labor
and foreign exchange. The analysis relates all off-farm investment in the nine
settlements, except the cost of land acquisition (considered to be a transfer
payment), to the net operating benefits of all agricultural operations in the
settlements. To test the sensitivity of the project against deviation from
the basic assumption, alternative estimates have been based upon a 20% increase
in each on-farm investment, farm operating cost and off-farm investment which
would result in rates of return of 18%, 16%, and 17%, respectively.  A 20%
decrease in gross farm benefits would result in a decrease in the rate of
return to 12%, and a delay of the commencement of farm operation would yield a
16% rate of return. The combined effect of a 10% increase in on-farm invest-
ment, farm operating expenses and off-farm investments, a 10% decrease in
gross farm benefits, and a one-year delay in the start of farm operation would
result in a reduction in the rate of return to 10%.



- 31 -
Regional Infrastructure
4.10      The 70 miles of feeder roads to be constructed or improved under
the project would increase the mileage of paved feeder roads in the Western
Region by 23% and bring the proportion of engineered feeder roads from 17%
to 22%.  The roads would directly benefit an estimated agricultural area of
between 15,000 and 20,000 acres and a population of between 4,000 and 6,000
families. The all-weather access to the presently isolated areas is expected
to eliminate their agriculture marketing problems and improve accessibility
to technical and social services and increase significantly the economic
potential of these areas, thus reducing migration. The economic benefits can
be qualified only after a final selection of the roads to be included in the
project. However, the selection methodology applied (para 1.26) would assure
that the economic rate of return on investment in each individual road would
be at least 10%. The employment created during construction is estimated
at about 500 man-years.
4.11      The reconstruction of the nine parochial markets included in the
project would support a traditional low cost and highly competitive marketing
system which offers easy access and benefits to both producers and especially
low income consumers. The facilities would accommodate about 3,000 vendors
in the major consumption centers of the Western Region and serve an estimated
50,000 families. The program's benefit would include the maintenance of a
cost-effective marketing system, a reduction of food losses due to spoilage,
and a general improvement in market sanitation. These benefits are difficult
to quantify. A reduction of marketing cost of 2% would be required to justify
the contemplated investment economically. Given the expected improvements in
the market operation, it can be conservatively assumed that the actual savings
exceed this minimum requirement of 2%. The proposed improvement would consti-
tute a least cost solution (compared to developing alternative sales system)
for accommodating the retail and wholesale operations involved.
4.12      The proposed investment in extension of water supply and sanitation
systems would benefit a population of about 75,000 and 30,000, respectively.
The direct benefit would mean an immediate improvement in the health of the
people involved and would indirectly increase their productive capacity and
reduce the tendency for migration.
Project Risks
4.13      The project would have particular risks inherent in multi-sectorial
projects in general and specifically in schemes involving the entire reorgani-
zation of the agricultural administration and the settlement of landless people.
Its major risk would be its sensitivity to the availability of supporting tech-
nical services which would depend on the timely and effective reorganization
of the MOA. The latter, in turn, would necessarily produce a number of sensi-
tive political issues. Given, however, the Government's active participation
in the preparation of the project and its firm commitment to rural development
and to the proposed project, it is expected that the problems related to the
reorganization of the MOA and the coordination of project implementation would
be satisfactorily resolved. The project's risks would therefore be acceptable.



- 32 -
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
4.14      Of the total project cost, only 36%, or J$ 10 million (US$9 million)
would be directly recovered. Approximately one-tenth of the unrecovered
project cost would correspond to investments for improving Government economic
and social services and nine-tenth to publicly owned infrastructure and
productive facilities including land.
4.15      Investments recovered from beneficiaries would include expenditure
for electrification and marketing facilities through user charges that would
cover capital cost at 8% interest; for farmer housing which would be recovered
at 8% interest over 25 years.  No direct recovery of capital cost is expected
on expenditures incurred to improve the MOA's service capacity on feeder roads,
on sanitation and on settlement infrastructure, including community facilities
and settlement land, which remains public property. Settlers would be obliged
to pay annually in addition to a rent of 2% of the lands commercial value, a
property tax corresponding to about 1% of its value and an income tax of about
2% of their chargeable income. However, because of statutory tax reliefs
actual recovery through these taxes is insignificant. During negotiations the
possibility of increasing land rents after a five-year development period to a
level compatible with prevailing commercial rental rates were reviewed,
together with the feasibility of increasing water charges to a level that
would allow a recovery of all or part of related operation, maintenance and
capital expenditure.
4.16      Total annual maintenance cost of the civil works constructed under
the project is estimated at about J$ 2 million (US$2.2 million), of which about
half would not be directly recovered and would be borne by Government (roads
and civil works in support of the reorganization of the MOA and roads). The
remaining maintenance cost would either be recovered in user charges (electri-
fication, markets and water supply) or work would be carried out and paid for
by the beneficiaries (farm housing, farm tracks, community and sanitation
facilities).
4.17      A comparison between all incremental public expenditure and revenues
related to the project indicates that the project would cause an annual net
deficit on public sector finance decreasing from about J$ 5.6 million for the
first year to J$ 0.1 million in year 11. Thereafter, public revenues are
expected to exceed expenditure, producing an annual net surplus projected
to increase from J$ 0.4 million in year 12 to J$ 0.8 million after year 14.
The cumulative fiscal balance would become positive after about 25 to 30 years
and the aggregate fiscal ratio for 20 years expressed in constant prices and
in present value terms (discounted at 10%) would be 0.78. A Government's
incremental cash flow from the project is summarized overleaf.



Government's Incremental Cash Flow from Project
(J$ million)
Year ......  1     2     3      4     5      6     7     8      9     10    11    12    13    14    15 16-20
OUTFLOW                               8.9  10.0   8.0   5.1   5.3   5.1   4.7   5.2   4.8   4.7   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.2 14.6
Investment /1
Reorganization MOA               1.2   1.0   0.6    -       -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -    -
Settlement /2, 3                 3.6   4.1   3.2   1.1   1.2   1.1   0.6   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3  1.1
Infrastructure                   3.4   3.4   1.7    -      -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -    -
Subtotal                     8.2   8.5   8.5   1.1   1.2   1.1   0.6   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3  1.1
O+M of public facilities /3        0.5   1.0   1.5   1.8   1.8   1.9   2.1   2.8   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.7   2.7   2.7 13.5
Service for bank loan /4,
Principal                         -     -      -    1.1   1.2   1.1   1.1   1.2   1.1   1.1   1.2   1.1   1.1   1.2   1.1   -
Commitment fee, interest         0.2   0.5   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.0   0.9   0.8   0.7   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   -
Subtotal                     0.2   0.5   1.0   2.2   2.3   2.1   2.0   2.0   1.8   1.7   1.7   1.5   1.4   1.4   1.2
INFLOW                                3.3   4.9   6.5   3.9   3.4   3.7   4.0   4.4   4.6   4.4   4.6   4.8   4.8   4.8   5.0 24.7
Revenues from:
Reorganization of MOA /5          -     -      -     -      -    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2  1.0
Settlement /6                     -    0.1   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.9   1.0   0.9   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1  5.7
Infrastructure services /7        -    0.2   0.6   0.9   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2  6.1
Subtotal                            0.3   0.9   1.3   1.7   1.8   2.0   2.2   2.3   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.5 12.8
Bank loan                          3.3   4.3   4.7   1.3    -       -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -    -
SURPLUS/DEFICIT
Annual                            (5.6) (5.1) (1.5) (1.2) (1.9) (1.4) (0.7) (0.8) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1)  0.4   0.4   0.4   0.8 10.1
Cumulative                        (5.6) (10.7)(12.2) (13.4) (15.3) (16.7) (17.4) (18.2) (18.4) (18.7) (18.8) (18.4) (18.0) (17.6) (16.8) (6.7)
CURRENT FISCAL RATIO /8               0.37  0.49  0.81  0.76  0.64  0.73  0.85  0.84  0.96  0.94  1.05  1.09  1.09  1.09  1.19 1.69
/1 Including physical contingencies.
/2 Including interest and redemption of land bonds.
/3  Including value of subsidies.
/4 US$15 million at 9% interest, for 15 years including three years grace period.
/5 Including taxes from incremental production and marketing of 5% of half of incremental production and rent from staff housing.
/6 Land rent, mortgage payments for farm houses, water and electricity charges, taxes on incremental producting and marketing,
saving of import subsidies and import tax.
/7 Market fees and water charges.
/8 Relating all fiscal revenues to all fiscal expenditures.
September 1976



- 34 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS
5.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government
would:
(a) cause the Ministry of Agriculture to work out the details of
the staff training program and submit the final program to the
Bank within six months of loan signing (para 1.12);
(b)  acquire an additional 4,000 acres in the locations identified
for settlement under the project within six months of loan
signing (para 1.16);
(c) cause the Ministry of Agriculture to complete detailed physical
plans and engineering designs for the development of the settle-
ments satisfactory to the Bank within one year of loan signing
(para 1.17);
(d) cause the Jamaican Public Service Company and the National Water
Authority to provide a timely supply of electricity and water
for the settlements (para 1.19);
(e) cause the Ministry of Agriculture to provide adequate technical
personnel to implement the settlement component (para 1.27);
(f) insure that support for community development and social services
would be provided by the Ministries of Youth and Rural Development,
Education, and Health to ensure adequate access to vocational and
formal education facilities and to health services (para 1.27);
(g) cause the Jamaica Development Bank to provide adequate farm
development and production credit to participating settlers
(para 1.27) and act as a collection agent for the mortgages to
be paid by farmers receiving houses (para 3.03);
(h) cause the Ministry of Local Government and the Parish Councils
to review within six months after loan signing the user rate
structures for the:
(i)  parochial markets included in the project and determine
a schedule satisfactory to the Bank for introducing a rate
structure that would fully recover operation and maintenance
costs, as well as capital expenditures at an annual interest
of 8% (para 1.31); and
(ii)  extended water supply systems and determine a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank for introducing a rate struc-
ture that would to the extent practical recover
operation, maintenance and, capital expenditures,
taking into account the payment capacity and pre-
paredness of the users to pay (para 1.33);



- 35 -
(i) provide adequate funds to the Ministry of Works and Parish
Councils for maintenance of roads and to the Ministries of
Health and Education for servicing new settlements, and
assure the availability of funds for farm development and
crop credit to new settlers (para 2.04);
(j) follow the accounting, auditing and reporting procedures out-
lined in paragraphs 2.09 and 3.11;
(k) follow the organizational criteria for project implementation
as outlined in paragraphs 3.01 through 3.07;
(1) ensure that the Interministerial Standing Committee would in-
clude representatives of all participating and supporting
agencies directly involved in project implementation and that
it would meet at least once every three months (para 3.08);
(m)  take the necessary actions for implementing the reorganization
of the Ministry of Agriculture, as outlined in the Report of
the Ministry of Public Services within the lifetime of the
project (para 3.09); and
(n) ensure that the project would be implemented in accordance
with an agreed implementation schedule (para 3.10);
(o) ensure that the project would be continuously evaluated by
the Data Bank and Evaluation Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture (para 3.12); and
(p) review the possibility of increasing land rents after a five-year
development period to a level compatible with prevailing com-
mercial rental rates as well as the feasibility of increasing
water charges to a level that would allow a recovery of all or
part of related capital expenditure (para 4.15).
5.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that the Government had:
(a) provided the Bank with settlement guidelines including a
land rent review mechanism both approved by the Ministry of
Agriculture and satisfactory to the Bank (para 1.15); and
(b) formally decided to implement the existing plan to reorganize
the Ministry of Agriculture (para 3.09).
5.03      With the conditions and assurances indicated above, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million
equivalent for a term of 17 years, including a grace period of three-and-half
years.






ANNEX
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   General Reports
1.   Project Preparation Report; Government of Jamaica, August 1975,
4 volumes.
2.   Review of Reorganization of Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of
Public Services, November 1975, 3 volumes.
3.   Rural Infrastructure Report; M. Gutierrez Frias, Project Preparation
Consultant, July 1975, 50 pages.
B.   Selected Appraisal Working Papers
1.  Details of the Agricultural Settlement
2.   Details on Regional Infrastructure
3.   Details on Water Supply and Sanitation
4.   Project Cost and Phasing
5.   Farm Models and Financial Projections
6.   Economic Analysis of Agricultural Settlement






IBRD 12026
7t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO ~ ~ ~ ~  ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          70                                                                 MAY   1976
C  A  R            9  8  F   A  IV                    S  F  A               .gS\,                                     :::                                                    :  :            <       wALCe
-IS-30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t                                                                                                                                                                         : .        :';' 'ChA
Po Port Rh.od-  :      AMAIC                ,.
42  ff  %7 7 5 I n!X- s ir   >t   7s>                     SF_D                    _                      POPOSD DEELOPENTS
- 64iddles;XL; lk-  k "icoeQ W ;4> X V | Ij7 tersHill          RTilrToad
, H tv -   ffi               \, onrellX 4 TtR. 1i-h 50 WIiom,f  ald
W <o A \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotue.nty sndr
;   =                                  >                                                       jC              3    mToOxford                               ToWIlilomsfielo                       S;7  Woter supply systems~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Wi-i.1i  7   Wte -plysyte
T.\ )1   <  X  ) __   j ~ T o   Wifl/i-wmfiuld                             ove  1,000 reet
3lUCfleLdss.  TJ )          W            =_        :f 1                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SETTLEMENT SITE  NAMES
&   :            )\       : g  ~~~~~~~~~~;-'9l5 2;              E<L   s        W     k      -g~~~~~~~~~~~~A    E   T   H )                                                            Moi,tego Valley /York
I ; vx t.> 9r2?> Q E < \ , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Va.gh-nsfi.ld
|                                  nlo.Au~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~chi d-w  ig g;iPSP!Q4;    IX-           v1>           f        m        \(>  Sweqtwoter
'||-: VUhite;7orsxt7 / 1xt; 7 / 5) ~WSit.                                                                                                                                                            4, Ke,inilworth
B.;  ;   9   'soptistf                                                                                                     Q :>f/  \  (5) Pellrsve
JOe B   hmgounidae   o,  ,,tn"rii,
|8~OO                                                                                                                  yr'                                            Wd e,re,v sd i i\  , Whitehall
o 5 lo~~~1    l            is         20          25                                                                         r,                                                     ,                                                       .uc Iv-  \ i)Leamingt.,
! kLqMETM!l                                                                          BFc<><ao                       \j     =Sw                         u
-lLrcS   '                               ;                1                                                                Solt Spr )                        t       b                   7o MoMILESl                                             EXISTING:1o0'
;CAf2tBd  tAN              t :S Ef A \        ia 20 30 *,450                                                                                         ||I:$(W%XMyervl ,Mi arterial roads
| |  = =              _                        t    Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2a  p    ||Ra 1 ilroazds
,   Luceo   /   ;   fML";  ||  :  %<  99  kH ;t Airporls~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arprt
CORNWALL  /   <   t 1l                                               J   >                \          iSTR&r.7 LB  t \                                                              4   Port~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ar
|   |   >    J   >   M   A  I   C   A   j  Fl   :   t   '   g  '  ;  9  \  Pedro jf } \ - -Parlsh boundories~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boi-iwie
11  >   Bl k \  1l\ J 11                                                     X :    t ,U,eoerchcS                         t                 \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~--- riuty boundury
l l tor vgoton 8_ 11 g | ; ; h SC *- --e; ifi ;)[ t gInnpe C Elevutions over 1,000 fee                                                                                                          t    E le ,a t io s   o v e   1,0 0   f. .
|                \  t                                        I I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A  R i/ b      E A  N    ;;iafArI                                                    :                                     1                        h, rd hoW~   on hb / do o
|              ~~~~~~C A; R I , 8  e                                                        80            8 )                                                                                                      > Fi                                               5"ad. iiaern. b, 'h'



