FILEEC PDocufDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
tNo.P2104-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATICIN
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 8, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Basic Rate-/                               Special Rate
US$.01    = J$.0091                       US$.01       = J$.0125
US$1.00   = J$.910                        US$1.00      = J$1.25
J4.O1.    = US$.011                       J$.01        = US$.008
J$1.00    = US$1.100                      J$1.00       - US$.80
1/  The Basic Rate is applicable to the import of all essential goods, all
Government transactions and all transactions of the bauxite industry.
The Basic Rate has been used in calculating Project costs.
Government of Jamaica Fiscal Year - April 1 to March 31
Abbreviations
ACB              =  Agricultural Credit Board
AMC              =  Agricultural Marketing Corporating
CIDA             =  Canadian International Development Agency
FAO/OP           =  Food and Agriculture Organization
Cooperative Programme
IDB              =  Inter-American Development Bank
JDB              =  Jamaica Development Bank
JPSC             =  Jamaica Public Service Commission
LDUC             =  Land Development and Utilization Commission
MOA              =  Ministry of Agriculture
ODM              -  Ministry of Overseas Development
PCB              =  Peoples Cooperative Bank
PLL              =  Project Land-Lease
SSFDP            =  Self-Supporting Farmer's Development
Programme
USAID            =  United States Agency for International
Development



ZL.c Z?FICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA - FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summiary
Borrower:            Jamaica
Amount:              US$15 million
Terms:               Payable in 17 years, including three-and-a-half years of
grace at 8.2% per annum.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would support the Government's
program to strengthen the rural economy and improve the
living conditions of the rural population, so as to reduce
rural-urban income disparities and curb rural-urban migra-
tion. The project would be located principally in the
Western Region, which has an especially pronounced poverty
problem. It would concentrate on removing key constraints
to rural development not covered by other Government
programs presently under execution or planned. The por-
tion of the project dealing with the reorganization of
the Ministry of Agriculture would be national in scope.
The project would contain the following principal compo-
nents.
(a) Support for Ministry_of Agriculture. Reincorporation
of most agricultural services under the direct juris-
diction of the Ministry; restructuring of the Ministry
along functional, as opposed to project lines; and a
regionalization of the Ministry's technical services.
Project investment would provide for additional
facilities required for regionalization, including
accommodations for two new regional offices, 30
additional local offices and 40 staff houses for
remote areas; 30 four-wheel drive vehicles; and
training for Ministry personnel.
*                                  (b)  Agricultural Settlement,  Support of Government's
Land Lease Program to reduce underutilization of
agricultural land and rural unemployment by the
Government's acquiring such underutilized land and
leasing it to landleass people and farmers with
inadequate land. Project activities would include
acquisition of 4,000 acres (in addition to 12,687
acres already purchased); elaboration of detailed
physical plans for nine settlement areas; construc-
tion of settlement iinfrastructure, including 10 miles
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of access roads, 10 miles of village roads, and 40
miles of farm roads and tracks; construction of 820
farmhouses and the corresponding water and electriclty
supply systems; selection and settlement of 1,400
families; provision of essential community facil-
ities at the settlement sites to accommodate the
settlement administration, social services and
essential marketing requirements for agricultural
inputs and outputs; land development (1,400 acres)
and forestation (1,000 acres); and technical assis-
tance to implement the settlement component.
(c) Regional Infrastructure. Assistance to the Govern-
ment's program to improve the economic and social
infrastructure in the Western Region. Project
activities would include the construction/reconstruc-
tion of 70 miles of rural feeder roads; construction/
rehabilitation of nine parish markets; extension of
37 water supply systems; and construction of 6,000
waste disposal units.
Estimated Cost and
Financing Plan:   Total project cost is estimated at US$31.4 million.
Foreign exchange and local currency costs are estimated
at US$8.5 million and US$22.9 million, respectively.
Project financing requirements would be met by the Bank
loan (US$15 million), and the Jamaican Government (US$16.4
million). The Bank loan would finance 48% of the project
cost and, in addition to its foreign exchange content,
would cover US$6.5 million equivalent of the project's
local cost.



- iii -
Project
Cost Summary:                                              US$ Million …
Local   Foreign   Total
I. Support for Ministry of Agriculture
Regional and local office                        1.2       0.3      1.5
Staff housing                                    0.5       0.3      0.8
Training and technical assistance                0.3       0.3      0.6
Vehicles                                           -       0.2      0.2
Subtotal                                       2.0      1.1       3.1
II. Agricultural Settlement
Land acquisition                                 4.0         -      4.0
Farmhousing                                      1.6       0.5      2.1
Water supply                                     0.3       0.2      0.5
Electrification                                  0.1       0.1      0.2
Settlement roads                                 1.7      0.8       2.5
Community facilities                             0.4       0.2      0.6
Soil conservation and forestation                1.2      0.1       1.3
Physical planning                                0.5       0e1      0.6
Administration and supervision                   0.6       0.1      0.7
Subtotal                                      10.4      2.1      12.5
III. Regional Infrastructure
Feeder roads                                     2.3       1.2      3.5
Markets                                          1.9      0.7       2.6
Water supply                                     1.4       1.5      2.9
Sanitation                                       0.1      0.1       0.2
Sub-total                                      5.7      3.5       9.2
Base Cost                                       18.1      6.7      24.8
Contingencies:  Physical                         1.9      0.7       2.6
Price                          2.9       1.1      4.0
Total                                         22.9      8.5     31.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                          -----------US$ (000)
FY78     FY79      FY80     FY81
Annual              3,600    4,800    5,200    1,400
Cumulative          3,600    8,400   13,600   15,000



- iv -
Technical
Assistance:        Individual consultants will be retained to assist the
Government in training Ministry of Agriculture personnel
and in the administration and supervision of agricultural
settlement.
Rate of Return:      The weighted average economic rate of return of the
settlement and feeder road components of the project
would be 17%.
Staff Project
Report:            Report No. 1205-JM, dated May 16, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECI'ORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
FIRST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Jamaica for the equivalent of Us$15 million to help finance a first rural
development project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including three-
and-a-half years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per annum. 1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY2
Introduction
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Jamaica" was distributed to the Executive D:irectors on March 22, 1976.
Small updating missions visited Jamaica in August 1976, January 1977 and again
in March 1977. The findings of these missions are incorporated in this report.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        During the decade following independence in 1962, the Jamaican
economy grew at a fairly rapid pace, averaging 5.7% per annum. Growth was
spurred by major developments in tourism and i-n bauxite and alumina production.
Tourist visitors increased from 200,000 in 1962 to 500,000 in 1972, while over
the same period bauxite production expanded from 8 million tons to 13 million
tons and the output of alumina rose from 650,000 to 2 million tons. Large
private capital inflows from abroad underpinned investments in these sectors
and these same capital inflows enabled Jamaica to maintain a sound foreign
exchange reserve position despite increasing deficits on the current account
balance of payments. The decade of the sixties was, therefore, a period of
1/   Jamaica's per capita income, calculated on the Bank Atlas basis, was
estimated as US$1,290 in 1975, thus placing it in the category of
countries which under present policy would be extended loans by
the Bank with a final maturity of 15 years, including three years
of grace. However, recent developments have resulted in a substan-
tial decline in Jamaica's per capita inccme measured in dollars.
A major change in exchange rate policy (see para. 18) has resulted
in an effective devaluation estimated at 18%. Aside from this indi-
cation that the 1975 figure was overstated because of an overvalued
exchange rate, it is now estimated that, because of recent highly
adverse changes in the economic situation, real per capita income
in 1977 will be about 20% below the 1975 level. It is clear that
Jamaica now falls in the US$520 - 1,075 income category and thus
should be accorded the terms recommended for the proposed loan.



-2-
rising incomes and rising expectations. However, the growth of investment
during this neriod bypassed the agricultural sector, the traditional source
of Jamaica's income and employment opportunities, agricultural production
stagnated and there was increasing migration to urban areas. Moreover, the
relatively capital-intensive nature of investments during this period did not
permit a sufficient expansion of permanent urban employment opportunities
despite continued high levels of emigration. Finally, the pattern of develop-
ment tended to worsen the already extreme inequality of Jamaica's income dis-
tribution.
4.        Two other results of the pattern of investment during this period
were to prove significant for the future growth of the country. The first
was an increase in the external dependence of the economy, both in terms of
markets (especially bauxite/alumina and tourism) and sources of supply of
consumption, intermediate and capital goods. The second was an increase in
the degree of concentration of merchandise exports. Bauxite and alumina
exports, which already accounted for over one-half of total exports in 1966,
increased to more than 75% by 1974. Thus, by the early 1970s, Jamaica was
suffering from serious unemployment and the social tensions generated by this
and by worsening income distribution. In addition, the economy had become
heavily dependent on external economic developments and on decisions made out-
side the country.
5.        The Government which came to power in 1972 under the banner of
democratic socialism was strongly committed to reducing the inequality in the
distribution of income, alleviating unemployment and reducing the country's
external dependence. It embarked upon a development program emphasizing
greatly increased government ownership of and control over the country's
productive resources and promised expanded popular participation in decision
making. Economic diversification, employment and redistribution of income were
set forth as priority goals, with economic growth considered as an important,
but subsidiary, goal. Emphasis was to be given to increasing employment and
income opportunities for the poorer segments of the population through expanded
public investment in labor-absorbing sectors of the economy and to increased
social benefits.  Evolution of the Government's program has witnessed a con-
siderable expansion of public ownership in the basic sectors of the economy,
including significantly increased participation in the tourism and bauxite/
alumina industries, both of which were largely foreign owned.
6.        External factors have complicated implementation of the structural
changes sought by the Government.  The completion of a major investment cycle
in tourism and mining resulted in a sharp drop in foreign capital inflows
beginning in 1972. This was followed by the increase in the world price of
petroleum in late 1973 (which raised Jamaica's petroleum import bill to
US$195 million in 1974 from US$73 million in 1973) and by the world recession
of 1974-75 which had serious repercussions on Jamaica's tourism and mining
sector receipts. These events made balance of payments and fiscal management
increasingly difficult as imports continued to grow rapidly and special employ-
ment programs were expanded to alleviate the most serious effects of the growing
level of unemployment. Balance of payments and demand management measures were



- 3 -
introduced in 1972 and again in 1973, including a small devaluation of the
Jamaica dollar, the imposition of import controls and measures to limit the
expansion of credit to the private sector. These measures proved to be inade-
quate to stem the weakening balance of payments performance. The Government
was able to counteract the abrupt rise in the price of petroleum in 1974 by
increased bauxite taxes and royalties. This yielded an additional US$150 mil-
lion in foreign exchange receipts. 1/  While this was temporarily sufficient
to offset the rise in oil prices, and the higher prices for other imports, it
did not resolve the underlying weaknesses in the country's economy.
7.        Imports continued to rise at a rapid pace in 1975 (20% in nominal
terms) reflecting large wage and salary increases in the private sector and an
expansionary fiscal policy designed to ameliorate the increasingly serious un-
employment problems. At the same time, direct foreign investment declined
further in 1975 and private capital remittances increased, reflecting growing
concern about the political and economic future of the country on the part of
some members of the propertied classes.  Jamaica was rescued from a potentially
critical balance of payments situation in 1975 by a near doubling of receipts
from sugar exports due to a sharp rise in international sugar prices and by an
unprecendented level of external medium- and long-term borrowing by the public
sector. However, despite gross external public borrowing totalling US$247
million, Jamaica's foreign exchange reserves fell by US$81 million in 1975.
8.        The balance of payments situation reached crisis proportions in 1976.
Serious labor problems in the mining industry together with soft world demand
for aluminum substantially reduced the production and export of bauxite and
alumina. Thus, despite sharply higher prices; for both these products, total
export receipts of the industry fell by about 12%. Receipts from sugar exports
in 1976 were nearly halved due to much lower international prices for sugar.
Moreover, Jamaica did not benefit from the recovery of tourism evident in the
rest of the Caribbean during the year. Thus, despite strict controls which
resulted in a 17% drop in imports, the current account balance deteriorated
further in 1976, with the deficit equal to nearly US$300 million.
9.        Adverse developments on capital account made the balance of payments
situation even more difficult. Foreign commercial bank lending to Jamaica prac-
tically ceased and capital flight accelerated sharply. Direct private invest-
ment inflows were negative for the third consecutive year. A large part of the
1/   The Government's action to increase bauxite taxes and royalties followed
the failure to reach agreement with the companies on a renegotiation of the
e                  tax clauses in the original company contracts.  The companies objected to
the tax increase and three US-owned companies requested arbitration before
the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID).
Recent agreements between two of these companies and the Jamaican Govern-
ment have resulted in the discontinuance of the pending ICSID arbitration
proceeding. The third proceeding is still pending; however, negotiations
between the company and the Government have been completed and it is
expected that the proceedings before ICSID will be discontinued in the near
future. A fourth company instituted proceedings in the Jamaican courts.



- 4 -
credits received by the public sector were government-to-government loans from
Jamaica's CARICOM partners (Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados and Guyana) and
Venezuela). The IMF extended a total of US$64 million in credits to Jamaica
under its oil and compensatory facilities. Despite these credits, the net in-
flow on capital accounts was only US$97 million for the year, compared with
US$230 million in 1975. As a result, foreign exchange reserves declined drama-
tically.  By mid-December, the country had lost US$270 million in reserves;
gross official reserves had fallen below US$30 million and the Central Bank of
Jamaica was forced to close the foreign exchange markets. The markets were
partially reopened in January to permit payment for imports already landed in
Jamaica or in transit and for government and government-guaranteed debt-service
payments.
10.       The balance of payments difficulties have been accompanied by, and
in part reflect, problems of budgetary management.  Growth in current expendi-
tures over the past few years has consistently outstripped that of current
revenues as a result of Government attempts to maintain employment and income
levels.  Subsidies to recently acquired public enterprises and to several other
public entities, including the sugar and banana industries and the public
transport system, also helped contribute to the rapid growth in expenditures.
The consequent reduction in public sector savings significantly increased the
difficulty of financing the growth in public sector capital expenditures.
11.       Measures were introduced in February 1976 in an attempt to improve
the fiscal situation, but these proved to be inadequate. Bauxite levy receipts
failed to increase due to reduced demand for bauxite and general tax revenues
were adversely affected by the deepening internal recession and the decline in
imports.  Moreover, continued rapid growth in unemployment caused the Govern-
ment to adopt more expansionary fiscal and credit policies around mid-year. As
a consequence, the overall deficit of the Central Government for fiscal year
1976/77 was about 14% of GDP. With the sharp decline in lending by foreign
commercial banks, an increasing proportion of the deficit had to be financed
domestically. Since domestic liquidity was shrinking in large measure because
of heavy capital flight, the Bank of Jamaica had to finance nearly two-thirds
of the overall deficit, equivalent to about 9% of GDP.
12.       While prior to 1973 Jamaica had enjoyed a history of relatively
stable prices with inflation averaging no more than 5-6% annually, the problem
of inflation in Jamaica has assumed major importance in recent years. In 1973,
prices began to increase rapidly, with an increase of around 18% that year,
followed by 27.3% in 1974. The rate of increase began to slow in mid-1974
and the increase in 1975 was about 17%. Price inflation subsided in 1976 with
the cost of living index rising by less than 10%. The acceleration of infla-
tion was triggered initially by expansionary fiscal and monetary policies as
well as by a small devaluation in January 1973 and thereafter by external
factors which became increasingly important following the oil price increase
late in 1973.  Inflation was also propelled by large wage adjustments.  Between
1973 and 1975, the industrial wage index rose at an average annual rate of 46%,
considerably more than retail prices and far above gains in productivity. In
February 1976, the Government established a system of wage guidelines as part
of a stabilization program. IHowever, major exceptions to these guidelines were



- 5 -
permitted and enforcement measures and mechanisms proved inadequate. The
reduced rate of inflation in 1976 was probably due to a combination of factors
including price controls on essential consumer goods, deceleration of inter-
national inflation and the monetary effects of capital flight.
13.       Real GDP is estimated to have fallen by about 6% in 1976, following
a drop in excess of 2% in 1975. Unemployment has increased sharply, especially
in the tourism sector, rising well above the 11% rate that had persisted over
the past few years. Amelioration of the chronic problem of high unemployment
-'           is paramount among the development objectives of Jamaica and an increasing
proportion of government expenditures is being diverted toward temporary work
programs for the unemployed. Since a lower rate of net emigration is likely
over the next several years, the task of expanding employment opportunities
has become all the more urgent.
14.       Several economic measures were adopted in January 1977 to deal
with the economic crisis. These included sharp reductions in import quotas
and extremely tight controls over all foreign payments, increases in taxes, a
six-month moratorium on wage increases, and a freeze on prices of essential
goods. Planning for an emergency program to increase production, especially
in agriculture, manufacturing and constrction, was begun. The Government's
immediate objective was to relieve balance of payments difficulties by
restricting imports through a quota/licensing system and by exercising
controls over payments for services of various types. Priority for the
use of scarce foreign exchange was to be given to government and government-
guaranteed debt service, essential consumer goods (especially food) and fuel
imports, and to imports of raw materials for high value-added and export-
intensive industries, in that order. Overall demand management policies were
designed to minimize the adverse effects on employment and to place the
greatest burden of sacrifice on those most abLe to pay. Thus, tax increases,
wage and price restraints and import controls were all focussed most heavily
on the middle- and high-income segments of the population. Budgetary opera-
tions were to remain expansionary in the hope of preventing further increases
in unemployment and avoiding any significant retrenchment in the Government's
move toward democratic socialism. It was hoped that the domestic production of
goods and services could be increased quickly to prevent excessive shortages
and inflationary pressures from arising. The intention to nationalize selected
private sector enterprises, announced at the same time, was designed to give
the Government greater control over the direction of credit and the distribu-
tion of essential imports and to assure the supply of needed inputs for the
vital housing program.
15.       Projections of the balance of payments indicate that the avail-
ability of foreign exchange for imports will be extremely limited this year
in the absence of additional foreign borrowing. Although export proceeds,
including the bauxite levy, are expected to increase due to recovery of world
aluminum markets, declines in both tourism receipts and capital inflows will
more than offset these increases. Since payments have been delayed on private
unguaranteed debt from the beginning of the year, the prospects of Jamaica
borrowing in international markets are at the moment slight. Imports were



- 6 -
therefore budgeted at US$660 million for 1977, 30% below the 1976 level and
over 40% below that of 1975. A large part of this reduction was expected to
come out of nonessential consumer goods imports. Nevertheless, the near-term
implications for domestic production and employment are severe.
16.       By early April 1977 it had become obvious that the projected level
of imports was not sustainable. Import licenses valued at over 70% of the
total import quota for the year had been issued during the first quarter,
largely to clear goods already received in Jamaica or in transit when the
controls were announced. Shortages of imported goods were beginning to
force the closure of firms and layoffs of workers were becoming increasingly
frequent. At the same time, an analysis of the private debt indicated that
service payment obligations in 1977 would reach nearly five times earlier
government estimates.
17. Moreover, preliminary drafts of the emergency production plan made it
clear that rapid expansion of output could not be counted on to alleviate
shortages and inflationary pressures over the short term.  In the agricul-
tural sector, which is being given highest priority, prospects for quick
increases in output are not promising, as the countryside is still plagued by
a drought which has affected the island for the past three years. Short-
term supply response of the manufacturing sector appears to be constrained
by a lack of entrepreneurial capacity and a lack of confidence on the part
of investors. The construction sector seems to offer the best hope for rapid
increases in production and employment, and at a relatively low import compo-
nent. While a sizable housing program could be mobilized fairly rapidly and
would help alleviate the unemployment problem, it would require a consider-
able amount of investment by the Government.
18.       The certainty of drastic curtailment of output and employment
during the rest of the year caused the Government to take further actions
to relieve the import constraint. On April 22, a dual exchange rate system
was established, with a new "special" rate of J$1.25 = US$1 to function
alongside the old "official" rate of J$0.909 = US$1. In addition, the
Government announced that budgetary financing by the Bank of Jamaica for
FY77/78 would be limited to J$250 million (compared with J$272 million in
FY76/77) and that prices and wages would continue under restraint after the
current prices and wages freeze ends on June 30.
19.       The new "special" exchange rate represents a devaluation of 37.5%
from the old rate. All foreign exchange transactions of the Government and
the bauxite/alumina industry; imports of essential foods, medicines and
pharmaceutical products, petroleum and fertilizer imports; and certain basic
raw material imports are to be processed at the old exchange rate. All other
purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to the devalued rate.
In view of the expected mix of transactions in the two markets, the effective
devaluation is estimated by IMF staff on a preliminary basis at only 18%.
While this adjustment does not fully correct for the previous overvaluation
of the Jamaican dollar, it is intended to protect the purchasing power of the
lower income segment of the population from excessive increases in the prices
of basic necessities. At the same time, it increases the international



- 7 -
competitiveness of Jamaican goods and services (other than bauxite and
alumina), including tourism and manufactured goods. In addition, the Govern-
ment's budget will benefit since a large part of the subsidies to the sugar,
banana and tourism industries have been elimin.ated.
20.       The Government's fiscal policy for 1977 remains a matter of concern.
*             Largely because of the erosion of the tax base which relies heavily on import
and corporate profit taxes, the overall budget deficit for the fiscal year
beginning April 1, 1977 is expected to exceed the 14% of GDP level estimated
for fiscal 1976/77, unless additional revenue measures are taken.  If the
Government is successful in obtaining the US$220 million in external credits
it is seeking, the unfinanced gap would fall to about US$275 million which
would have to come from the Bank of Jamaica or from additional revenue
measures. In his speech on April 22, the Prime Minister stated that Bank
of Jamaica financing of the deficit would be Limited to J$250 million
(US$275 million) approximately equal to the unfinanced gap expected under
the above assumptions. The combination of a massive public sector deficit
financed largely by the Bank of Jamaica and a sharp reduction in imports
will probably result in strong inflationary pressures once again.
21.       Expenditure estimates presented to Parliament on April 29 emphasize
the maintenance of permanent public employment and continuation of the special
employment and income supplement programs. Expenditures will continue for
projects supported by external lending agencies and some quasi-governmental
and certain private sector entities (e.g., Sugar Industry Authority, Banana
Board, Transport Board, Hotel Corporation, Air Jamaica) will continue to
receive subsidies, but at a reduced level. Projects such as the major expan-
sion in oil refining and new bauxite mining and alumina production are under-
going further review in light of the current crisis and may be eliminated.
Substantial increases are provided in connection with the emergency production
plan for projects concerned with the production of foods for domestic consump-
tion, basic consumer goods and housing.
22.       The maintenance of internal price stability is a critical element
of the current adjustment process in Jamaica. In the absence of an incomes
policy to restrain wage and price increases after the present wage/price freeze
ends on June 30, the benefits of increased international competitiveness of
Jamaican products achieved through devaluation would have been quickly eroded.
In recognition of this threat, the Government has stated unequivocally that
wage/price guidelines would be established and made effective as of July 1 to
restrain such wage increases.  The exact formulas have yet to be worked out,
but the Government's commitment to an effective incomes policy is clear.
23.       The devaluation and related measures announced oni April 22 are a
positive step toward building a firm basis for future viability of the economy.
The major uncertainties remaining are the magnitude of the inflationary impact
of the budget deficit, the effectiveness of the wage and price restraint to
be instituted after June 30 and the ability to mobilize additional external
resources. Unless further action is taken, it is likely that Jamaica will



- 8 -
experience additional falling output and income, mounting inflationary pres-
sures, growing scarcities and a continuing exodus of professional and com-
mercial talent. The needed domestic policy measures would help restore
confidence in the country's economic management, thereby encouraging addi-
tional capital inflows and assisting the rescheduling of at least part of the
large debt repayments due over the next couple of years. A priority short-
term objective is to relieve the present restraint on imports sufficiently
to limit the decline in output and the related increase in unemployment.
24.       The difficulties remaining and the magnitude of the adjustments still
required are substantial. The managerial and administrative demands of Jamaica's
policy of emphasizing direct controls could well exceed the bureaucracy's capacity,
and, in fact, there are already signs that difficulties along these lines are
being encountered. Although there are still obvious shortcomings in the Govern-
ment's economic program, the economic team is aware of them and understands the
seriousness of the situation. It appears to be receptive to suggestions and
willing to consider alternatives. It has entered into detailed discussions with
IMF about further economic policy measures and the possibility of a Standby
Agreement. A Fund mission visited Jamaica last month and it is anticipated that
further negotiations will be held in Jamaica later this month.
25.       There are several additional policy measures that Jamaica could take
to stabilize the economy and consolidate a sound basis for economic growth.
These include: (a) increase public sector revenues, shifting away from import
taxes as the major revenue source; (b) implement a stringent wages policy (to
take effect when the present wage freeze expires on July 1) coupled with some
form of forced savings; (c) introduce policies which could promote export
growth and provide more effective rationing of imports. The production program
emphasizing import substitution and export promotion should, of course, be
continued. Adoption of these policies should enable Jamaica to attract addi-
tional external capital inflows and contain the impending drastic curtailment
in imports. It should be pointed out that even with the adoption of these
policies, the Jamaican economy will be subject to serious foreign exchange
constraints for the foreseeable future. Local cost financing is justified on
the basis of estimates that capital inflows into Jamaica, if restricted to
foreign exchange components of projects, would not be sufficient to meet the
foreign exchange requirements of the total public investment program and
estimated debt servicing liabilities.
26.       Despite the critical balance of payments situation of recent months,
the Government has not defaulted on the servicing of the public or public-
guaranteed debt, and the Government's foreign exchange budget accords the
highest priority to the servicing of this debt. Although there have been
delays in repaying unguaranteed private sector debts, many of these obliga-
tions belong to a category of debt that would under normal circumstances have
been rolled over.
27.       Jamaica has the resources to enable it to both sustain positive
rates of growth of per capita income and achieve a wider distribution of the
benefits of growth once the domestic economy has been stabilized and the
country's international competitiveness has been restored. The country's
external debt problems appear manageable. The estimated total debt out-
standing (disbursed only) in mid-March amounted to approximately US$1.3 bil-
lion. (Excluded from this figure is an estimated US$220 million in normally



-9-
revolving outstanding trade credits.) Of this, about US$440 million was
direct public debt, US$360 million was government guaranteed and the remain-
ing US$500 million was private nonguaranteed debt. In relation to present
foreign exchange earnings, the debt service ratio on the public and publicly
guaranteed debt is estimated at about 16% for 1977. However, in view of the
current abnormally low level of exports and the low level of new debt assump-
tions, it is anticipated that the debt service ratio will decline gradually
over the next several years.
28.       Jamaica's longer term balance of paymnents prospects at present appear
only fair, but bauxite, sugar and tourism give the country a substantial export
base on which to build. Demand for these products tend to be cyclical and the
industries have structural problems, some of which are amenable to domestic
policy and others which are not. However, Jamaica's factor endowment does not
limit the sources of its future growth to these products. With appropriate
policies, prospects for positive production responses in agriculture and
manufacturing, both for the domestic market (as import substitutes) and for
export, are good. Thus, while the country is now experiencing grave financial
difficulties, with the adoption of additional positive measures along the
lines recently enacted, there do not seem to be insurmountable obstacles to
reestablishing balance of payments viability. Jamaica can thus be regarded
as creditworthy at this time for additional Bank lending in the amount pro-
posed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
29.       To date the Bank has made 14 loans in Jamaica totalling about
US$138 million after cancellations. Of this amount about US$81.5 million
(59%) has been for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric
power, water supply and sewerage; the remainder has gone into education (17%),
sites and services (11%), agriculture (7%) and population (6%). The proposed
loan would be the third loan in the agricultural sector. The preceding two
loans in the agricultural sector have been for agricultural credit. There
have so far been two IFC investments in Jamaica; a loan in 1961 to a pre-mix
concrete company and an equity/loan investment in 1968 in a hotel project.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of projects in Jamaica.
Future Bank Lending
30.       Bank lending in Jamaica is aimed essentially at providing continued
transfers of long-term external capital to help finance the capital imports
associated with the country's public sector investment program. The Bank pro-
gram has been developed taking into account the role of other external lending
agencies--IDB, CIDA, ODM, USAID and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)--and
the Government's development strategy. Bank lending supports Government pro-
grams conducive to increasing production and employment; achieving a wider
distribution of the benefits of growth; and improving the country's social
and economic infrastructure where inadequate facilities are presently con-
straining development. It is also an important objective of the Bank lending



- 10 -
program to strengthen the public sector institutions associated with Bank-
financed p-:-oJets by supporting policies designed to improve the quality of
management, -_heir operating procedures and finances.
31.       After a lull in Bank lending in 1972/73--due largely to institutional
constraints and slow project preparation--the pace of Bank operations picked
up in FY74 and 75, with an increased emphasis on projects in the social sec-
tors. Slow project preparation and unsettled economic conditions have con-
tributed to a renewed lull in Bank lending operations. The most recent Bank
loan, for a Second Population Project (Loan No. 1284), was approved by the
Executive Directors on June 8, 1976. The Bank's share of external public debt
outstanding and disbursed was about 8% in 1976 and its share of external public
debt service was about 6% in 1976.
32.       In line with the Government's development strategy, the proposed
project as well as future Bank projects will place increasing emphasis on the
agricultural sector to support efforts to promote exports, stimulate import
substitution, strengthen the balance of payments, increase employment and
raise living standards in the rural areas. It is expected that the revitali-
zation of the agricultural sector will also help check the population drift
from the countryside into the cities. The Bank has already made two loans to
the Jamaica Development Bank (JDB) for relending to the agricultural sector.
A third agricultural credit project for the JDB to help meet the financing
requirements for commercial farming and agro-industrial development is under
consideration. A possible sugar rehabilitation project is in preparation,
which will include the rehabilitation of factory milling equipment.
33.       In accordance with the Government's increased emphasis on the pro-
ductive sectors and the development of small-scale industry, a project to
assist small-scale enterprise is contemplated. The project is likely to
include credit to entrepreneurs, technical assistance and institutional
development.
34.       In infrastructure, a second electric power project for expansion of
the Jamaica Public Service Company's (JPSC's) transmission and distribution
facilities has been appraised. Important objectives of the project would
aiso be to improve the reliability of the JPSC system and to strengthen the
company's finances and operations.
35.       In the social sectors, the Bank has been active in financing two
education projects, two population projects (the second of which contains
an important nutrition element) and a sites and services project. The Bank
expects to continue to support programs to improve social and physical infra-
structure in Kingston and other urban areas. Looking further ahead, it is
expected that a third education project will be prepared for possible Bank
financing. The possible scope and content of the project, however, has not
yet been defined.
36.       As indicated in Part I, Jamaica faces some critical economic problems
and we will be closely watching the direction of its economic policies in the
months to come. Presentation of further lending operations to the Executive
Directors will only be made after economic policies have been adopted which
would strengthen Jamaica's creditworthiness.



- II -
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Rural Sector
Socio-Economic Conditions
37.       The rural sector in Jamaica embraces about 60% of the island's two
million people. It contributes approximately 15% to the GNP, over 50% to
national employment and about 16% to export earnings.
38.       The standard of living in the rural areas is substantially lower
than in urban areas, the average per capita income of the rural population
(estimated at US$230) being only a tenth of the average urban income (about
US$2,440). About 80% of the rural population have an income less than one-
third of the national average (relative poverty) and at least a third of the
rural population earns less than the income considered necessary to provide
minimum calorie requirements (absolute poverty). Housing conditions, parti-
cularly on old sugar and banana estates, are grossly substandard. The aver-
age occupancy rate is 1.7 persons per room. Only about 10% of the rural
dwellings have electrical connections and approximately 3% have piped water.
Almost 50% of rural homes depend on public standpipes for their water supply
and close to 10% lack sewage disposal facilities. With respect to transpor-
tation facilities, the rural areas are interlaced with a relatively dense
network of roads (1.4 miles of road per square mile). However, most of the
road network consists of unengineered earth or gravel tracks which often
become impassable during the wet season. This not only results in high costs
for vehicle operation and road maintenance, but it impedes regular freight
and passenger traffic. Social services are also poor. The number of persons
per physician in the rural areas is twice that for the urban areas and infant
mortality and the incidence of malnutrition among children under five years
of age is significantly higher in the rural areas. Access to primary and
vocational schools in rural areas is limited; nearly 20% of the rural popu-
lation have not received any formal schooling and fewer than 10% reach the
secondary level.
39.       Within the rural sector, agriculture is the dominant activity, pro-
viding 60% of rural employment and about 50% of rural production. Its con-
tribution to the national economy is highlighted by providing 30% of total
employment, 7% of GNP and 13% of export receipts. However, because of rising
internal demand for agricultural products and a poor performance of export
crop production Jamaica has become a net food importer since the mid-1960s.
B. The Agricultural Sector
40.       Resources and Land Use.  Out of a total surface area of 2.7 million
acres, about 1.5 million acres in Jamaica is designated as land in farms, the
remainder being mostly forest. A third of the agricultural land in farms is



- 12 -
either unused or is of very limited agricultural potential. In effect Jamaican
agriculture is thus based on about one million acres of land. Of this, only
about 25% is flat to undulating, the remainder being very hilly and requiring
good conservation practices if it is to be utilized intensively. There is
ample rainfall (about 2,000 mm annually on average) but its distribution is
uneven and partial droughts are frequent. Of the million acres of agricul-
rural land about 60% is utilized for crops and 40% for pasture, half of it
unimproved grassland. The largest proportion of cropland is under sugarcane
(32%), followed by coconut (19%), citrus, coffee, cocoa and other tree crops
(20%) and bananas (16%). The remainder (13%) is used for various food crops
(legumes, yams, pineapples and vegetables) and tobacco. The national herd
comprises about 280,000 head of cattle, 200,000 each of sheep, goats and pigs,
and 4 million poultry.
41.       Structure.  Jamaican agriculture has traditionally consisted of
two sectors, namely: (a) the export-oriented, large-scale plantation sector
engaged in the production of cash crops and beef cattle, and (b) small-scale
farmers, producing food crops and livestock largely for domestic consumption.
In recent years economic, social and political factors have been changing this
dualistic pattern into a more diversified structure. Thus, the importance
of the plantation sector has declined, while, at the same time, a small- to
medium-sized, more capital-intensive commercial farm sector has emerged.
Parallel to this, many of the smaller holdings are no longer farmed full time
and serve primarily as rural dwellings.
42.       Farm Size.  The agricultural land is very unevenly distributed among
192,000 holdings. About 15% of the land is in 150,000 farms of less than 5
acres, 22% in 37,000 farms of 5 to 25 acres, 3% in 1,755 farms of 25 to 50
acres, 5% in 1,815 farms of 50 to 100 acres, 13% in 800 farms of 100 to 500
acres, and 42% in 630 farms of 500 acres and above.  Two-thirds of the farms
over 500 acres are owned by Government and the bauxite companies.  The skewed
distribution of land, and considerable underutilization of resources that has
resulted, has been a major impediment to the development of agriculture and
the rural areas. In recent years Government has, however, distributed sizable
tracts to about 20,000 smallholders and landless laborers under its Project
Land Lease (PLL). However, this program has not yet resulted in much increased
agricultural prodution, and is hampered by administrative difficulties, the
lack of good support services and adequate physical infrastructure in the
settlement areas concerned.
43.       Production.  Traditionally, Jamaica's agriculture has been export
oriented, with sugarcane and bananas being the most important crops. In
recent years, however, agricultural exports have declined considerably, al-
though this has been compensated for to some extent by increasing production
of crops for the domestic market.  Sugar output has declined from a peak of
500,000 tons in 1966 to 360,000 tons in 1975 owing to a number of complex
problems. Total banana production for 1972 and 1975 is estimated to have been
275,000 and 250,000 tons, respectively, but exports declined sharply from a
peak of 127,000 tons in 1972 to 70,000 tons in 1975, partly because an in-
creasing share was syphoned off for domestic consumption. Similarly exports
of fresh citrus products decreased, though total production has increased
slightly.



- 13 -
44.       In spite of the potential productivity of its tropical pastures,
Jamaica imports 80% of its milk and 40%o of its meat.  Jamaica's beef produc-
tion capability is limited, mostly because of beef cattle's relatively low
return per acre and the lack of suitable processing and distribution facili-
ties. An increasing proportion of Jamaica's requirement for meat is being
met by an efficient broiler industry based on inported feed mostly in the
hands of five companies who deal with about 300 contracted farmers. Layers
are kept in small commercial flocks. Dairies are concentrated mainly in
the eastern part of the island, and marketing outlets in the western portion
are poor although a new plant is being built in Montpelier. Lack of refrig-
eration and pasteurization facilities results in large sales of raw and
condensed milk.
45.       Administration.  Numerous Government agencies are involved in the
agricultural sector and this poses complications.  The Ministry of Agriculture
(M0A) has principal responsibility, but a number of other government institu-
tions control important subsectors. Marketing is under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Commerce and Trade and the Commodity Marketing Boards,
credit is largely under the Ministry of Finance, and irrigation is under the
Ministry of Public Utilities and the Ministry of Mining and Natural Resources.
A further complication is that the MOA is organized along commodity and
specific program lines, with most of its qualified staff assigned to offices
in Kingston. At the local level, 13 semi-autonomous Land Authorities - relics
of the former Ministry of Rural Land Development and operated under the juris-
diction of locally elected officials - are responsible for agricultural ex-
tension and for certain regulatory functions. This fragmented administrative
structure has contributed greatly to the unsatisfactory performance of the
industry.  In addition to ineffectively using human and financial resources,
this structure has made it impossible for Government to formulate and implement
consistent agricultural policies and impossible to provide effective support
services to the agricultural sector.
46.       Credit.  The main sources of institutional credit for agriculture
are the commercial banks, the Jamaica Development Bank (JDB), the Agricultural
Credit Board (ACB) with its affiliated People Cooperative Banks (PCBs), and
the Commodity Marketing Boards. These agencies do not coordinate the supply
of credit. Most Government-sponsored schemes carry negative interest rates
and are beset with recovery difficulties.  Sufficient credit for small farmers
is available from the Self-Supporting Farmers Development Programme (SSFDP)
which is partially financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and
from the ACB. The only source of general development credit for commercial
farmers is the JDB.
47.       Marketing.  Export crops are marketed by various Commodity Marketing
Boards which work independently of each other and periodically need sizable
Government subsidies to cover their financia:L losses.  Most of the domestic
food crop marketing is handled in a relativeLy effective but costly manner by
small traders (higglers) who engage in collezting and wholesaling as well as
retailing. About 20% of the domestic marketing of food crops is performed by
the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC), which also functions as Govern-
ment's price stabilizing and support agency. It buys produce at 207 buying



- 14 -
stations throughout the country, offers guaranteed minimum prices for 32
domestic food crops and as a result is often forced to sell it at heavy
financial losses. The most important marketing facility in the rural areas
are the parish markets. They serve both as market outlets for the local
producers and higglers as well as supply points for consumers in rural
centers and for wholesalers servicing urban centers. These existing markets,
however, have proven to be inadequate for handling the increased output of
domestic food crops.  Another limitation is the poor rural road system which
denies the small producer in remote locations an economic access to the
market.
Development Issues and Government Policies
48.       The performance of the agricultural sector has not been commensurate
with its physical potential. Over the last decade, production has remained
stagnant causing a decline in agricultural output and food production per
capita. This has been particularly evident for export crops, which have been
decreasing at an annual rate of 5% in constant prices. Although food crop
production has increased in the last few years, it has not kept pace with
domestic demand. As a result, food imports have increased at an annual rate
of 5% in constant prices to reach J$120 million in 1974. The unsatisfactory
performance of the agricultural sector may be broadly attributed to:
(a)  inertia regarding the application of improved farm practices
and failure to intensify land use and cropping patterns;
(b) past governmental neglect of the agricultural sector;
(c) the reluctance of the plantation sector to adjust to changing
socio-economic conditions;
(d) highly skewed land distribution;
(e) the lack of adequate agricultural support services, especially
extension and applied research, and particularly for small-
and medium-sized farmers;
(f) deficient infrastructure and social services in the rural areas;
(g) deficient marketing arrangements for both food and some export
crops; and
(h) interrelated problems of low capital formation and the
private sector's reluctance to invest in agriculture.
49.       Government is aware of the problems outlined, and, with Bank assis-
tance, undertook in 1973, an in-depth agricultural sector study, which resulted
in a Cabinet-approved policy for improving agricultural production, rural
infrastructure and enhancing rural living conditions. Based on the recommen-
dations of this study, the Government has initiated an agricultural development
program which has the following objectives:



- 15 -
(a) intensification of land utilization by introducing a progressive
land tax and by reactivating the Land Development and Utilization
Commission (LDUC), which requires owners of idle or underutilized
holdings in excess of 50 acres to either intensify land use, or
to rent or sell the property to the Government for subsequent
distribution to landless people or small holders on a lease basis
(Project Land Lease);
(b) increasing credit availability through programs administered by
ACB and JDB;
(c) introduction of improved farm inputs and practices through
subsidies for better planting materials, fertilizers, and
soil conservation;
(d) encouragement of production of sugar, bananas, and citrus by
subsidies and of food crop production by provisions of sub-
sidized marketing services through AMC and guaranteed minimum
prices;
(e) expansion of food crop and livestock production on state-
run Food Farms and through the Government-owned Agricultural
Development Corporation (ADC);
(f)  improvement in the effectiveness of MOA by centralizing its
policy functions and decentralizing its program implementation
and service functions; and
(g) improvement of rural infrastructure.
50.       This program is indicative of the Government's commitment to rural
development but its ultimate success will depend on the ability of the public
sector to effectively implement the proposed schemes; provide adequate tech-
nical services, especially for the development: of the small-farm sector; and
maintain a favorable investment climate to facilitate the expansion of the
medium-sized commercial farm sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background, Objectives and Concept
51.       The proposed project originated from a comprehensive agricultural
sector study undertaken by Government in 1973 with Bank assistance. It
would implement some of the major policy recoimmendations which emerged from
this study. The project was identified and prepared by MOA and related
Jamaican institutions. Preparation assistance has been provided by several
FAO/CP and Bank missions. The project was appraised by a Bank mission in
December 1975 and loan negotiations were held in Washington in December 1976.
The economic uncertainties over the last year and the time required for their
assessment, contributed to delays in project processing.



- 16 -
52.       The proposed project would have three principal components:  the
reorganization of MOA; the settlement of 1,400 farm families; and the improve-
ment of rural feeder roads, water supply systems, parish markets and sanitary
facilities.  It would complement Government's rural development policy by
increasing agricultural production and income and improving the quality of
life, and thereby reduce income disparities and curb urban migration.
53.       Because of existing financial and administrative constraints, the
project investments would concentrate on the Western Region, which has espe-
cially pronounced poverty problems but also has immediate development possi-
bilities. After successful completion of the proposed project, Government
intends to initiate similar projects for the remainder of Jamaica. The proj-
ect in itself does not provide a fully balanced and integrated investment
package, but concentrates on removing key constraints to rural development
not covered by other Government programs presently under execution or planned.
A considerable portion of project investment would be for building institutions
and productive structures. This is because the basic problems of rural devel-
opment in Jamaica are institutional and because of the complementary character
of the project. The settlement component, which accounts for almost half of
the project investment, is designed to create a technically and financially
viable farm-size structure and to reestablish confidence and interest in
small-scale farming. In order to meet these objectives the component would
provide for (a) farms of a size capable of generating full employment for the
farmers family, (b) a farmers income which meets both his short-term minimum
needs and his long-term income expectations, (c) essential social and economic
infrastructure in the settlement areas to attract qualified settlers on a
lasting base and to allow an unimpeded development of production and marketing.
Project Area
54.       Except for the reorganization of the MOA, the proposed project invest-
ments would be confined to the Western Region (frequently referred to as Corn-
wall County), which includes the parishes of Trelawny, St. James, Hanover,
Westmoreland and St. Elizabeth. The region comprises an area of about one mil-
lion acres or one-third of the total area of Jamaica. It has almost half a
million inhabitants or about one quarter of the island's total population.
Eighty-six percent of them are classified as rural and about half of these
find employment in agriculture. The urban population lives in a few towns, of
which Montego Bay, a major tourist center, and Savanna-la-Mar are the largest.
They depend largely on employment in the service, construction and mining sec-
tors. Living conditions in the project area are similar, by and large, to those
in the rural area of the rest of Jamaica, except that the poverty is more pro-
nounced. Thus, unemployment is estimated to be well over 25% and only about
a third of the male population over 14 years of age is fully employed. The
average annual per capita income is estimated to be approximately US$175 but
close to 50% of the population are thought to have annual incomes of less than
US$100. Malnutrition is widespread and social services are meager. As a
result, there is a substantial migration, particularly of the able-bodied, to
the metropolitan area of Kingston.



- 17 -
55.       Much of the project area is hilly to mountainous and only one-third
of it (330,000 acres) is actually under cultivation. Land distribution is
highly skewed. Large farms generally concentrate on export crops and cattle
while small ones produce mostly food crops and small livestock for domestic
consumption. Because of the predominance of sigarcane and cattle, the region
produces about 40% of Jamaica's sugar and about 43% of its beef.
Project Components
56.       The first component of the proposed project would facilitate imple-
menting the reorganization of MOA as proposed in the "Review of Reorganization
of the Ministry of Agriculture" by the Ministry of Public Services.  It
contemplates a reincorporation of most agricultural services under the direct
jurisdiction of MOA, an internal restructuring of the Ministry along functional
lines (as opposed to the presently existing project-oriented structure) and a
decentralization and regionalization of the Ministry's technical services.
The Government's formal approval of the reorganization plan would be a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project investment in support of this program would provide for:
(a) additional facilities required for regionalization, including
accommodation for two new regional offices, 30 additional local
offices and 40 staff houses in the remoter areas;
(b) 30 four-wheel drive vehicles to be used in areas with difficult
access; and
(c)  an extensive training program for most of the Ministry's
professional, technical and clerical staff. The Ministry
would complete the details of the training program and
submit the final program to the Bank within six months of
the signing of the loan (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
57.       The second project component would support Government's existing
PLL, which aims at reducing widespread underutilization of agricultural land
and rural unemployment by acquiring underutilized farms larger than 50 acres
and then leasing the land for 49 years to farmers with inadequate land (PLL
II) or to landless people (PLL III) so that they may reach a minimum annual
net farm income of J$2,000 after a development period of about 5 years.  This
component would include:
(a) acquisition by the Government of about 4,000 acres for settlement
purposes (in addition to 12,687 acres already purchased) within
six months of loan signing (Section 3.12(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement);
(b) preparation of detailed physical plans for the development
of the nine settlement areas incluaded in the project. The
plans not prepared by the time of loan signing would be
completed within one year of loan signing (Section 3.05(a)i
of the draft Loan Agreement);



- 18 -
(c) construction of settlement infrastructure, including 10 miles
of access roads to the settlement sites, 10 miles of village
roads, and 40 miles of farm roads connecting the village sites
with the farming areas. The Government would provide the
necessary funds to maintain the roads constructed under the
project (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(d) construction of 820 farmhouses in a program jointly carried
out by the Ministry of Housing, MWA and local contractors.
JDB would act as a collection agent for the mortgage payments
made by the settlers (Section 3.08(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement);
(e) construction of potable water and electricity supply systems
for the settlements. The Government would make appropriate
arrangements with JPSC and the National Water Authority to
provide a timely supply of electricity and water for the
settlements (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(f) selection and settlement of 1,400 families with adequate
farming qualifications; the adoption of satisfactory guide-
lines and operating policies for settlement including a
land rent review mechanism would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The annual land rent paid by settlers is at present 2% of
the commercial price of land, which is below commercial
rates. The proposed guidelines would provide a mechanism for
a review of land rents paid by settlers after a five-year
development period with a view to adjusting rents to a rate
comparable to the then prevailing commercial rates and instituting
adequate cost recovery;
(g) provision of essential community facilities at the settlement
sites to accommodate settlement administration and of market-
ing facilities for agricultural inputs and outputs.  In
addition, the Government would provide for essential social
services (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(h) soil conservation and forestation measures for 1,400 acres to
immediately provide each settler with a minimum of one acre
of readily cultivable land; and
(i) technical assistance from MOA to implement the settlement
component through the provision of site managers and adequate
supporting services in each settlement area (Section 3.05(a)ii
of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       The settlers' credit requirements for farm and crop development
(estimated at about US$2.7 million) would be provided by JDB with funds from
the existing Self-Supporting Farmers' Development Program financed partially
by IDB. The Government would assure the availability of adequate credit funds
(Section 3.08(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



19
59.       The third project component would assist the Government's program
to improve the economic and social infrastructure of the Western Region.
The component would include:
(a)  construction/reconstruction of 70 miiles of rural feeder
roads;
(b)  construction/rehabilitation of nine parish markets to
accomodate 3,000 vendors present. Present user rates for
the markets would be reviewed and adjusted to recover
operation and maintenance costs, as well as capital
expenditures, at an annual interest of 8% (Section 3,09(i)
and 3.09(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c)  extension of 37 existing water supply systems and the
construction of four new systems servicing a total of
about 15,000 rural families. Prevailing user rates for
water would be reviewed and adjusted to recover, to the
extent practical, operation and maintenance costs and,
to capital expenditures, taking into account the payment
capacity and preparedness of the users to pay
(Section 3.09(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(d)  construction and installation of 6,000 waste disposal units
in a program jointly undertaken by the Ministry of Public
Health and Environmental Control, the Parish Councils and
individual householders.
Costs, Financing and Disbursement
60.       The total cost of the proposed prDject would be US$31.4 million
(J$28.5 million) exclusive of interest during construction, but including
physical and price contingencies. The estinated foreign exchange content
would be US$8.5 million (J$7.7 million), or 27% of total project costs.
The cost structure by major components would be as follows:
US$ million         % of Total
Support for Ministry of Agriculture                  4.1                13
Agricultural settlement                             15.7                50
Regional Infrastructure                             11.6                37
Total                                    31.4               100
61.       Project investment per beneficiary family would be about USa20 for
the reorganization of MOA, US$120 for regional infrastructure and US$6,000
for the settlement component. The inveStmEnt per beneficiary family for the
settlement component was calculated exclusiLve of land acquisition costs and
using the Basic Exchange Rate.  Computation of costs using the Special Exchange
Rate would bring the investmenlt cost per beneficiary family to about US$5,000.
The costs for the settlement component include land preparation, housing,



- 20 -
water and electricity supply, settlement planning and administration roads and
community facilities. Although the settlement investment costs are relatively
high, the planned investments are essential in view of the extensive infra-
structure investments that must be made in areas that in the past have received
little or no such investment. The proposed farm unit size (5 to 8 acres) and
the proposed level of infrastructure investment are essential for creating
farm-generating income capacity and living conditions sufficient to attract
qualified settlers on a permanent basis.
62.       The project would be financed by a government contribution of
US$16.4 million (J$14.9 million) and a Bank loan of US$15 million (J$13.6
million). The Bank loan would thus finance 48% of total project cost and
would cover the project's foreign exchange content of US$8.5 million, plus
US$6.5 million of local cost.  Local cost financing would absorb 43% of the
Bank loan.
Organization and Management
63.       Overall responsibility for the project would rest with MOA, which
would coordinate and supervise implementation through the existing Interminis-
terial Standing Committee for Land Reform and Rural Development, chaired by
the Permanent Secretary of Agriculture.  This committee is functioning satis-
factorily at present.  A special Project Coordinator, attached to the Office
of the Permanent Secretary, would assist in coordinating and supervising
project implementation.  MOA would be responsible for its own reorganization,
and for the implementation of the settlement component.  The Ministry of Works
would implement the feeder road component; the Ministry of Local Government,
the market structures and water supply systems; and the Ministry of Public
Health and Environmental Control, the Parish Councils and the Ministry of
Local Government, the sewage disposal units. Other agencies, including
JDB, the Ministry of Housing, AMC, the Ministry of Education, the Rural
Electrification Program and JPSC, and the Social Development Commission
would provide supplementary services for settlement development and would be
represented on the Interministerial Standing Committee (The organization and
management of the Project are described in Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       Items to be procured under the project include civil works, vehicles
and services. Civil works, with a total estimated value of US$22 million,
including contingencies, are individually small (the value of the largest
single contract would be about US$0.4 million and the largest combination of
contracts is expected to amount to no more than US$0.8 million) and geo-
graphically dispersed, with construction extending to over three years; hence,
they are unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Furthermore, the shortage of
qualified local bidders, the desirability of labor-intensive construction
methods and the hiring of small contractors located near the construction
sites would limit the opportunity for local competitive bidding. For these
reasons, smaller civil works with an individual or package value not exceeding
US$50,000 (constituting almost two-thirds of the civil works) would be pro-
cured on the basis of individually negotiated contracts or force account. The



- 21 -
remaining one-third would consist of those civil works with an individual or
package value exceeding US$50,000 and would include construction of regional
offices, markets and parts of the water supply schemes and community facilities
and about two-thirds of the feeder roads. These would be procured after local
competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and without excluding foreign bidders. Individual civil work contracts
or packages of contracts exceeding a value of US$250,000 and vehicles would be
procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Administrative services provided under the project are valued at
US$1.8 million and relate to the implementation of a training program for the
staff of 040A and for the planning, design, administration and supervision of
the settlement component. An estimated two-thirds of these services would be
carried out under force account by MOA. The rest would be contracted in
accordance with Bank guidelines for consulting services (procurement proce-
dures are described in Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover 55% of
total expenditures for civil works, training, physical planning, adminis-
tration and supervision, and 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles.
Expenditures incurred for the physical planning of agricultural settlements
and the construction of markets and feeder roads after July 31, 1976 would be
eligible for retroactive financing up to a total of US$1 million (paragraph 4
of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements are expected to
extend over three-and-a-half years after loan signing.
Agricultural Production and Markets
66.       The incremental agricultural production from the project would
result from the expected improvement in the efficiency of agricultural ser-
vices, especially extension services, throughout the country, and from the
nine settlements. Agricultural output from the settlement areas, estimated on
the basis of site-specific farm models, is expected to increase gradually from
J$0.3 million in the second project year to J$6.9 million in year 15 in
terms of end of 1975 farmgate prices. During the initial years, most of the
production would be for the farmers' subsistence. However, as production
rises, an increasing share of the farm output would be sold, probably reaching
85% of total production by full development. About 40% of the production
would be export crops and the remainder, by and large, vegetables and fruit
for the domestic market.
67.       The value of the incremental production from the settlement schemes
at full development would correspond to about 4% of national agricultural output
in 1974. The corresponding percentage would be 5% and 8% for domestic food
crops and export crops. The additional bananas, citrus and coffee production
would be equivalent to about 5%, 7% and 17% of the respective national totals
in 1974. The domestic and export markets would easily absorb the incremental
production, and the existing marketing system, based largely on small private
intermediaries, Commodity Marketing Boards and the Government's AMC, would be
capable of handling the additional production.



- 22 -
Benefits and Risks
68.       The reorganization of MOA would benefit the entire farming community
in Jamaica in the form of better support services. The related investments
would not be directly recovered but would be justified in economic terms if,
as a result, the aggregate national agricultural output increased annually by
one-quarter of 1%. This is considered a realistic expection in light of the
increased coverage and improved quality of services to farmers expected from
the reorganization.
69.       The direct beneficiaries of the settlement component would be the
1,400 families included in the program. They would receive full-time agri-
cultural employment with very satisfactory income levels. Currently they are
estimated to have an average family income of about J$500. Based on settle-
ment site specific farm models, the annual family income from farm operations
is expected to reach an average of about J$3,000 after five years at the end
of 1975 prices and about J$7,000 at full development after 15 years. If the
present Government cash subsidy program for agricultural inputs (land develop-
ment, planting materials and fertilizer) and for prices of outputs (banana and
citrus) would be discontinued, the projected average family income after 5
years would drop to J$2,000 and to J$6,000 at full development. The un-
weighted average financial rate of return is estimated to be 37%, varying
between 29% and 45% according to settlement sites. Excluding input and price
subsidies the average would be about 20%. Expected income levels and finan-
cial rates of returns are high and the proposed farm development would remain
financially attractive and viable if key technical and financial parameters
deviate from the basic assumption by a 20% to 25% margin. The direct economic
benefits from the settlement component would consist of the incremental
agricultural production, valued at J$6.4 million at full development in
economic terms at constant end of 1975 prices. The economic rate of return
for the settlement component, which accounts for about 50% of project costs,
relating all on-settlement investments except land to the incremental net
benefits from the farm operations would be 19%. The economic viability of
settlement would remain satisfactory if volume or prices of output and input
would deviate by a 20% margin from basic assumptions. In addition to these
quantifiable benefits, the implementation of the settlement component would
provide for the establishment of suitable administrative procedures for settle-
ment, which is the Government's principal approach to correct the socially and
economically incompatible land distribution pattern. It would also help in
establishing suitable soil conservation and erosion control measures. The
relatively high investment cost per beneficiary in the proposed settlement
component is a result of the need for the acquisition of land for providing
essential infrastructural facilities in the settlement areas on one side and
the necessity for establishing farms capable of generating an income sufficient
to attract qualified persons to full-time farming on a permanent basis on the
other. The investment cost per beneficiary is therefore justified as a least
cost solution for meeting the objective of the settlement component.
70.       The feeder road component, which accounts for about 15% of project
costs, would directly benefit about 15,000 to 20,000 acres of agricultural
land and approximately 5,000 farm families in the remoter areas by providing



- 23 -
reliable access for marketing and communications, thus increasing their
economic potential and possibly reducing urban migrationf. The selection of
feeder roads to be included in the project would follaw a methodology which
would assure that the economic rate of return for this investment would be
no less than 10%. Assuming a 10% rate of return on the feeder roads, the
weighted average rate of return on the feeder road and settlement components
of the project would be 17%.
71.       The market facilities constructed or rehabilitated under the project
would strengthen the traditional, low-cost marketing system.  They would mostly
benefit small-scale producers and low-income consumers. The investment would
be economically justified if there were a reduction of food losses due to
spoilage in the order of 2% of throughput. Actual savings are expected to be
in excess of 2%. Reduction in health hazards would be an additional benefit.
72.       The extension and rehabilitation of 41 water supply systems and
6,000 waste disposal units would benefit about 17,000 rural families by
improving their quality of life. Such facilities are also expected to reduce
the incidence of water-borne diseases.
73.       The project is bound to experience difficulties in the coordination
of the various agencies involved, particularly as a major component is agri-
cultural settlement. It will be essential to provide on a coordinated basis
the supporting technical services, which in turn will depend largely on the
timely and effective reorganization of MOA. Given, however, the Government's
firm commitment to the proposed project, it is expected that the problems
related to the reorganization of the Ministry and the coordination of project
implementation will be satisfactorily resolved.  The project's risks would
therefore be acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III, Section
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be a formal approval by the
Government of a plan for the reorganization of MOA and the adoption of guide-
lines for operating policies and procedures for the Agricultural Settlements,
which would include a land rent review mechanism.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1977



page I of 4 pages
Lk"D ORIA (THOU ~ ~     ~       ~       ~ ~ vg~ I
...!. ;;.; .                                             ,JAMACA                                  Rt;FI8NCE COUNTRIES 31970)
tOTAL          1*,0                                               MOST REC;NT             TRflIDAD
ASRtC,          4.8                            190         1970    !STS46 t            AND TOBAG0           CYPRUJS           ISRAEL
%NO PtR CtPITA  (USSM                           600,9        *70,0       1290,0                 136040 1040,0               2240,0
.O.ULAT ON A.D  v!YAL  STATISTICS
*OPLJtiTION  (443D.KR.  TILL3 106N              1.6          t-9          2.0                    1.0           0.6           3.0
POPUL3tTIN  DENSITY
!EW  StU,jtRC bM.                        617*0         170,0        t86,O                  200,0          69.0         143.0
ttl  St. KMt. AitPICULtURAL LAND            330.0       384.0        418.0                  70*,o         121.0         25n.0
VITAL STATISTTCS
CRUD!  7RPp4 RATE (/THOU, AV)               37.0        35.S          32.2                   32,5          24.2           25.5
CRUO! 0!ATW RATt C/TWOU,Avl                 10,7          5.6          7.1                     7.1           7,4              4
?Nt9NT mORTAL!TY 9AtS  t/T'OU)              51.0         32.2          26.3                  34.4          29.4            2, 9
LIPE (OP!CTNNCY  AT  SIRTH CYRS)             64.6        67.8         69.5        -          68.1          70.2           70,2
DRISS t rPRODuCTION 'RTE                      3.4         2.7          2,4                     2,n           1,5           1,8
t3OULAO!06 GRvwt8 RtAE tt1
TOTAL                                         t,4 *         .4  *      3,8*/a                  2,t *         1.0 *         3,4 /d
VRRAAN                                         .          6.2            .,                   3,1            1.9           3.9
JRSRA   aOPUL&TTnN CZ 7P TITAL)                23.4         37,1            ,                   24.1         35,;           82,1
NIE AT9JeTLRE 1    PE 1RC!NT3
O T  364 YEARS                             4t,2         45e9         42.1                   41.2          31,8          33.3 Ia
t5 rt  64 YEARS                             54,5         50,4         53.2                   55.1          bO,6           60,2 /a
Ss YlARS AN3 IV1Q                           46,5          5,7          b,?                    3,7            7.6           h,5 7
A;!  5EtENnFNCv Q9TT1                          O.           I 1.0        10.o                   0Pt          0o.            0.7
!C5Nt9tC DEPENDENCY 53ll                        3.2            .7         1 5                    53            0.9/a          t,2 lTb
'680)0 PLANNINGI
ACCE!TIRSs  (c'u.LArAvP, rWiO                  ,         a9.s       137.6                    25                             .,
jS!R! ft OF 66R49E9    Al6)                    .,           ,.           ,,                      .
E6PLOV.FNT
Tt;;L  LRNI  P1RCE (THOUSAND5                bSOn**    600,0*"    S20 -n**                    350. 1la       265.0         of6,   /a
LARIR  POPce  TN :iRTC 3L0jRE  tSI             36.0 3O0n                 29.2                   22,0 3-.o                     8 N h7
J6EaPLlYOD C1  IF LA6R 6FIRCE)                   ..         17.5*       21.3..                 32.5            3             3.r TI
INCOME 'TSTRTRJTIIN
81.4EST  5S  n  'oIJSkwl0S                  30,2 L  /a                                                      1 ,2  lb      I3,4 /c
"30805T 201 OF  1inJSEnL0S                  bI6.2 Ia        ,,           ,                      ,            9.  T        3,h  /
LI8EST   200 Of  itJStHOLOS                   27                                                               9   ,  .  7,9/b  7 Ft
LOKEST   40t oF HIJ53 oLDS                    8 92 /a                                                           , 19 h 9.  20T5 7s
I3ST41PuT!I'N  n! LAN) 30..N!98P
S ;;Et0 r0 ;;; I00 o ! s     #~5 ;;14,6  lb                   *.           ''                                                  *-
t     E  My 9SM1LLEST  I0 S   NFRS             3.6 /6        ..            . -                    ,
M1ALTA AND LNUT0yTI0N
Dt38U38Y30.N  PER PWYS3CO4',                     ,,      2630.0       250 .0 /b              z330,0         1420.G         410,0 /e
OlRUtiTIN PEDR   0UR5IN3   PERS0            1990.0 Ic        ..        740.0                 4D0,n          b1o.0         20n.0 le
3PULA0TPN PIP 4nSPIT4L RED                   250.7        ?40,0         260.0                 230*T          190.0         17 0.0
'eS r"a, SUPPLY IF I
CALORIES tS 0F 4EQJIaEaE6TS)                 91.0       1 30.n        114.0                  91,0          99,0         136.0
R0nT!tN 1GR0t6    PER )Ay)                   56.0        Sb.0          67.0                  6 40          7180           92.0
.sO    I1TC0  AV9T4L ANn POLSE            20.7 /b    29.0 /a                               34 OLc        331 nIc       89,0
DEATH RA AT  (/TWOL1) *9  1.4                   6.  5        4,2          4.6                    1        . A
EDJCATTOY
*DIUt;F3  FNDOLL.t'T  91T,1
0918*90Y SCO7DL                            118,0        1303*0       3060                   3 3.  /d       82o /d    132.,n
5006k8A11  3C6231L                          10.0         240          32.0                   40,0/         5  -  7.0 Td   3 3 .0
YEARS IF SCHI7N;L16   *09V24E1
3IRSTO  iND SECOND LEVEL)                   12,0o        1.n          13t,n                   I,n            t2,o         12,0
VICA¶T1NAL ENROLLMENT0
CZ Of 5E0CON1AR90                            9.el         9,0            .,90 .0Id                                        6.
iJ   LTERACY9RTE!  832.0                                              66,0 oc                88,0           85.0          84, 0
.40 ISING
'!RSON9 P     0000  (JRRAN)                     36,.1L*1.5 L.f
ICCULPIED nWELLI-4GS                            t,07..T
PIPED    T E   313                          79.0         78,0     b       .,                 6 ,n/r           ,, .l
ACCERS T03 ELECTRICITy
C0   IP   ALL   DWELLINGS)                     ,,        27,n                                 bb6.n           ..          94,0   /fL
RURAL '3WdLLINrS ECONNCTEn                                                                            &qu0T
t0 EL!ETRICtTY tXl                             .. .C.                    ..                                    .          58,0 /f
CONSUMPTION
96337  8E~~E3VEoS  10!6  TUIO ~~op)    8%,0       3 7 6,0          .,                   7b.0         263,o         223.0
PASSENGER  CARs (PER T4jj 87pl8                20.0         39,0         4 5-0                  73.n          b8,0          51-0
ELECtRICTTY  3w4/Y9 PER CAP;                  332.0                    I  1 0                3372.0          962.0 0N
'JE*SPRIN T (80,0R PEIR CAP)                    2,.9         6,           4.4                    5,9           2,7           33.6
S!005AND mEPI1030'JNS ON REVERSE



Paeg 2 of 4 pages
0t11s ethansia noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Moat Recen. t Estimtat between
1973 eas 1975.
o  p.  to emigration population growth rate is higher than the rats of naturalinrae
05Data based on official definition which includes those wflling to work but noct actively ase king employse.nt.
-cc tarsal ba-  been asiected as the objective .contry becasee of its aicilaricy in population ai.e sod dependence on foreign trade.
jAMAICA                 1960    I   1958;    lb  1961-62;    Ic  1963;    Id  1962.
1970    I   1964-66;    /b  Ineide only.
MOST RECENT ESIMnA.TE:    /e  1970-75;    /b  1971;    Ic  1972.
TRINIDAD &. T01.Ar      1970    Is  19-64 years;    lb  including midwives;    It  196i-66;    Id  Glosoaset maintained And aided nchel   ny;
/.  Totsl, -rban and  -rura;    If  Inside only;  ~j  1966.
CYPRUS0                 1970    /A  Ic-tic of  .poplation onder 13 and 65 and aver to total labor icros;    lb  1966, arban;    Ic  1964-66;    /d  Excluding
Turkishsche.
109AE1                  1970    Ls  Including data relating to contain territories  mter on-petion by inc-clt mIlic-noy forces sIsce  lon   1967;    /b  Ratio
of population cedar 13 and 65 And aver to total labor force;    Ic-  Jewish wage earnere, urban                    Id  Due to i-aigra-
tico   population growth rate ia higher than the rate of natoralinras                   /e  R.i.eftrerd, not all practicing in
the  -onnry;    /6  1966.
i8, May cy, 1977
DWIflTWUN O? SOCIAL. ItlItATOiS
Land done (thou us2)                                                                           Pparlation see sursmne nere     - Pp.plarlin divded by snhe.r ci prooti~c-og
Total- Total  -ufa-c . are  cprising laed Area and inland waters.                                male and fat1l  graduate n-.s, "traised` or 'certified" soes,ad
Acri..  M-tPc treost estiste  of agri-oItora1 Arcs oed cenperarily or psena-                     soc-iar  peresnl with training orspvec.
ses tly for crops, p           -kra,tres 6 hitches gardens or to lie fallow.                  openoision ear h.apina1 bed - Populacios divided by  -b.hr or beapital beds
s.silahle in public- sAnd prints general and op-1taltnd hospital and
lNP Pnr c-cot.(s$)01  - GNP pot c-apit c     3-a siae  Ato..e-s norkepi-o                        rahabili-otle   c-eer;seld.s surstg henn  and esalsrst   -n
cscatdby san  covraloc sethd .. World Bank Atlas (1973-75 bssie);                        -utodial end prenenit- tare.
1960; 1970 aed 1975 dat.                                                                     per c-ants sanely af oalcrlas i  of Cearn t) -tepute.d goon energy
qoi-alat of net coad suppltaa avilable Is ceustry per capIta per day;
Ponclation and vital statietie                                                                   avilable espplies omepriac d-etic- prodaction , iparta lees esporte, end
Pooclation feid-year million)   As of Jolt, first:  if not  -vilahle, avraga                     c-bagss Lc stach; set soppliso.. ee-lde anise3 feed, ced,q-atities use d
of two e-d-ye-  na ti.atee; I1163, 1979 and 1975 data,                                         In goad pro.....eing And busesa in diatrihbnion; reqoir-eneta wer  eatisted
by PAO base.d on phyaolegicel see dsI for  etoI acivity AMd health conid-
Population density -per scors Ins - Mid-year populetios per square kiloetr                       ering enirnusteral tomperacore, hody weighta, oge AMsd Se  distributions of
1100 he-tares) of total area.                                                                  papsiatine, end al11caig lIt far waste At b-u-s-hold level.
Paeulation de...ity-per scer  k. of saric. lasd - Computed a  above for                        Per capit. aunply of pretein fere  ear day) - Protein c-entet of per capita
agricultureI lend only,                                                                        net sopply of feed per day; net supply of feed Is defined  a above; reqcire--
rests for all u-antrisa setsbliched by USDA Ecnoic ieaserch Sesvioes
Vital a--ooi-Ca                                                                                  povoid  con a miiaa  alanecf 6i goene c  total proteIn par dAy, -ed
tr-de birth rate pet th-nsd,. averge- onul Icon births per thousad of                            20 groofe .I ainl sod polse protein, of which 11 gre-  should be anImal
nid-ycer papulation; tes-yeersrirthnatic  avrages oding to 1960 and 197i,                      protein; three standards are lewr thas those of 75 gran  of ftal. protein
and fiv-y-e  averge ending In 1975 for  -te  rae...t aetiezte.                                 end 23 gra   of soistl protein aa -ovroge for the world, propused by FAG
Cruds death rate p-o thousan.d. aereas.- otsul deaths per thaoaand of old-year                   in tbe Third World Food Sc-roy.
population; tcs-ynurar,ithsetic avergea ceding is 1960 and 1970 and fit-                     Par c-anita proteis  unpply from anima seAd culse - Pc-utrio sopply of food
y..a . avrag  edi.g c-c 1975 for no at rCe -ein-t.                                             darived frm aonlsad pc-lees in ar"'pe  day-
cc-fast notltyvt /thosi  A-.Anua  deaths of icfasc.-soder on  year of Age                      Death rats  (/tic-l Aces 1-4 - On-oe  deahs per thoucsc-d in oga gronp 1-4
pot thasased live hfvtha.                                                                      years, to childres Is this age group; soggasted oasindicator of
Life ac-eectasty at birth (yot)  A- vr.ge oubeC of years of life reeli.i   at                     -alstritien.
hieth; ocually fiey  raea esncding Is 1960, 1973 end 1975 fan develop-
Ing osetAc                                                                                   Edocatimo
iron  env=dc-i- Ct    - -utog.  -c-ht of IIcs  daughters a no   ill hca-                       Adjusted   -1eolneso tetic - s,jtta y school - Enrollmnt of all ages As pe-
it her s-ssI reprcdsctiv  period If abe noperie..es present ego-specific                        -teetgs of prImary achoai-age pepuaation; isolsd.e  Childres agd 6-il ynora
fettflity  rcca; oooaly fiv--oa  evereges coding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       hut adjuted for different lengths of primary education; far c-ntrias aith
far d-evelape  cnstrCs.                                                                        sniosra  edoc.siom, enoletny .....ed 100. ti.eesan  pupils Are below
Population cRothracet III - total - Composd annal groth octe5 at od-ynar                         or above the offcia  schela.
populatico far 1900-f, 1910-c ond 19701.45~.                                                 Adi-totd esrola1eo  ostic. -.. se-oday schovi - Computed as abv;  eodar
population creth rate (Xi - orbes - Computed lu    rowth face of tatal                           educationrasia  at leas.t fear poeats of appreved poiary inetruota;
populctios; different defisitioto  of orb-0  reas toy affect cnpeubility of                    pravide  general, ve...tional or teceho  training instru-tioto  far pupils
data sm tgso etrc.                                                                             of 12 to 17 yeats of age; ortespondeso- c-crse  sa- gn...e-l1y  c-tudsd.
Urbano-uito  (. of total) - istiu of -bho  to total pepslc-tmon; difi-nret                     Yeats c-u schooling nrooidsd (fires And sec-ed level) - Total years of
definitiss    i orbo  .Anna  ma yffeCt toparshility of dsto omong c-truies.                    schooling; At sacootary level, voctionl instrution toy he partially or
Ale  asoosore1 (percent) - Children (0-14 yasra),  obngaa(13-66 Yeare),v Paaisl-  esralee   fof a-eodary; - venatjiea   isesiraione inc-lode
as   eira   (Iysara and aver  atp oteste   ef sid-yeao papeltin                             tusi-lcduatri1  rt ether poagr   66cc-  eperate. tedependestly or as
Age depesdascy ratio -Rlathe of ppuation. ude  I5Aend 65 adovr -a ths                            deparoneto.t  of secondary isatitetmona
of age  1  throgh 64.                                                                        Adult1t .it.ray  -tot  (%3  - Litcate daIsti  (able to read and unite) As per-
icc.... :8:deendeocv yo rtic - R-ec-c of pop-lotion under 15 -d A5 cud  -te  c-c                 ucececf Cotol adult population sgd 13 yeats ato coot
C-he 1ahor force in ofc group af t5-64 ysors.
of birth-toi-cl devices under ...sPico  of national fsnily pl-citg prng-a                    Person re  tome (orhan) - Average cu-be- of person  per room Ic oncupied
tic-t  inception.                                                                              tenvetio-I dwellings Is urban areas; dwelligs occlude ...o-p-cans
P oily rlon-isot   ut  (. of osciod wo )-PotCtetg-to  oro   woec ci                              Atrcuread us-ecpted parts.
chiId-bealiC, ags (Il-hi y-av) who us  bicth-C-ont-l d-vicCo toal earricd                    Ocutddelso    ihn   ie  wtr(1-ctpind c-onntionai dwellcgc
wbne- i~ san  age group.                                                                        Ic- orhac- osd ruraI Arnea.  itht inside or outside piped  -ea  facilities
as pr-cetage of all accapied dwellings.
Earloynect                                                                                     Accast eltoiric fi ( f all - dw iiis,a) - Cnvetios-I dws11icgo with
Total labor force (choua-dl - Ec-oiCalty active persoa,  ccluding areed                          eletrofy Is ltivig qrtsaspeocnst of total duellioge it -hAc- and
farces And csmaployed but eacluding hcsev,students, etc.; d.ffitccon                           rura  Araa.
It  - v .t.u  cov-tice are sac c-aallRalI d-Ilisga connected te electricity Cli - C_epsrd ac above fatol
Laho for-c I  aetculute  %) -bgri-sltrollabor farce (is fatmiog, foc_otry.           dwslling  only.or C1
huntng sd fibiog  as  ettetageof ttal  ahercooc.f.d.   r- h                     on Ptn
cr  aleat  wlto   is take a )b, c-c vi a job on A give  day, r_maled cut             Radicr reeier !fe  tha  ea        - 5cypee af o-ci-era   Ceradio hbroc-dto.t
ef a Jch, nd eekiig wok fora. spec ild  inisan perId not eaCeedlcon                            to geanra- pobl Ic per thes.and of popc-lation;  -oldre onlice...nd ree-tsrc-
wek; any c-athecoparble hecueocontsdc-a to differsnt definitions                               is c-ntrien asd Is yasra ahes regiactation, of radio sets   ai  effect;
cc - amployd  ed sor-  of data, e.g., enpicysst offt. Iccaetoi               anpIe             data far rcas-t years say c-ct he cenparehis A ce sont contrice  eholiahsd
.avYs, taspusary t-npioynet-cuac.                                                             ieeig
PasseserL oars feet~ sh--- non) - P.Aaaeger oars srprise otar c-ate seating
Ineediec-tihutias -Pertentage of private inctas  (bo.th Is cash ead kied)                     lesta ight persona; seclu.des aolenc..s, hrarasa ad militory
heete .yti-et 37., richest 20c, poorest 20%, and poorest All of hones-veils
holds.                                                                                       ElectriciZ, ike/v net c-an) -  nAsa1 tasateption. nf Icdsttrial, tsstt
pshl o adpivtet, electricity in kilowatt bone  pet .apita, g-netaly
Distributios of land  -erbp -  Prcoc-cages  of leod onsd by wealthieet 107.                      baa..d  -n prodocmondata , wIthout altowa.c. for lasses Is grids hot allo-
And p-Acts  liT, of land nesars.                                                               Inc f-o imprts Asd  apcrta of eetiiy
a..Ith  .d Ntition                                                      K~~~~~~~~~~~~ie-speist (kg/yr per eapi - Per caPita annea Iam,- ption in kilagrae
lesith sea Nutrition                                                     es~~~~~~~~.timated fro  dometic produetias pl18 set imports of seaprie.,
PoPeletiom pr shisrela  - PopulatIon divided by n,usher of prC-tccing
phylcassqolifedfrn A  edtc-al -cb-I at utiv-rity level.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
JAMAICA
SELECTED ECONOMIC DEVEL0PlENT DATA
Average      Actual                 Eat.                -     Aver.ge
1970-12       1974        1975     1976                 1977
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                            Constant 1974 01$ Milliona                                 A. % of G1P
GDP                                               2300.0       2468.9     2412.2    2271.6                 1.4         - 5.S          120.0     100.0
Gsans from Teems of Trade                            0.3          0        127.1       77.3                 -          -39.2            0         3.4
a                         Gross -- eD.tic  ancmes                            2300.3      2468.9      2539.3    234899                 2.1         - 7.5         105.3      103.4
Imports (incl. NFS)                               1040.4      1098.2      1126.0     895.0                 2.3         -20.5          46.7       39.4
Esports (import capacity)                          941.8        971.3      950.2      782.8                0.4         -17.6           39.4      34.5
Cons-pti-                                         1722.3       1858.4     1905.8    1847.6                  3.1        - 3.1           79.0      61.3
esmeot                                             726.2        737.4      682.2     613.5                -2.0         -10.1           28.3      27.0
National Saving                                    395.1        406.9      440.8     439.9                -0.4           -             18.3      19.4
Domestic S-sIng                                    578.0        610.5      633.5      501.3                -u.5        -20.9           26.3      22.1
MERCIAND7SE TRADE                                                               Current 05$ Millios                                        _ o   tal
Input ts
Food                                             76.0        122.3      129.9     10.1                 15.0         -16.0           11.6      11.5
2thcr Co-sseer Goods                             95.5         78.2      103.9       '21.7                3.1        -30.0            9.2       7.6
Prtr-l-e-                                        46.8        195.1      215.2     21 0.1               46.5         - 2.3           19.1      22.1
Other Inter-ediate Goods                        165.7        288.2      328.7      319.8                18.6        - 2.7           29.3      33.6
Capital Goods                                   180.1        252.0      345.9      233.8               12.1         -30.7           30.8      25.2
Total Merchandise Imports (cif)                 564.1        935.8     1123.4     951.5                 16.6        -15.3          100.0     100.0
Eopor to
Bauxlte-Alumina                                 225.3       518.2       499.2     440.5                17.3         -11.8           61.6      63.8
Sugar                                            37.9         81.4      153.7      a6.0                33.7         -4.0            19.0      12.5
Other                                            80.5         94.1      157.6      163.7                14.2          3.9           19.4      23,7
Total Merchandisc Emports (fob)                 343.7        693.7      810.5      690.2                18.8        -14.8          100.0      00.
Mrrcbandisr Trade ISdiOes
Import Pric- Ioden                               57.9        100.0      116.8     I15.'                16.9           8.5
isport Prior Index                               98.2        100.0      134.8      140.6               21.0           4.3
Terms of Trade Ides                            100.5        100.0      115.4      11.0                  3.6        - 3.8
VALUE ADDED oY SECTOR                                                        Constant  974 3s$ Millions                                 As ',' of GDP
Agric-lt-re                                        l12.5        190.1      193.0      136.3                 3.5        - 3.5            8.C       8.2
Mining                                             307.4        345.6      255.7      2'8.1                 0.a        -14.7           10.6       9.6
Other                                             1800.1       1933.2     1963.5    1862                    92         - A             81.4      82.2
Total                                             2300.0       2468.9     2412.2    2271.6                  7.6        _ 5.8          810.4     100.0
PUBItC FrNANiCS
Csrreot Receipts                                505.8        719.0      702.8      703.8                 7.5          -             29_1      31.0
Curront Expenditcren                            410.6        610.4      613.8      687.7                 9.4         12.0           25.4      30.3
Pobllo Sector Savings                            95.2        108.6       89.0       :6.1               -2.0         -81.2            3.7       0.7
Public Sector Investment                        205.6        307.6      367.0      091.4                11.2        -23.3           15.2      12.4
Central Government                                                                     Central Govercnmnt
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                        1974         1975       1976        INvESTMENT PROGRAM DETAILS                     1974       19i5    1976
(As % ci Total Cucrent Espenditure)                 82          33.7       29.9       .As 7. of Total Capital Ex e-dit-rr)
General Administratio-                          37.9         38.7       36.4        iconomic Services                             59.0        57.3   42.3
Social and Commnity Serviocs                    20.2         17.3       23.9        Social Services                               26.7        31.3    29.4
Economic Ser-iees                               13.7         13.3        9.8        C-seral Services                                9.7        5.,1    0.4
Other                                                                               Other                                           2.6        6.9     9.9
PINAN1CING CF P-JELIC SEtTOR ONVfi0lIENI yRCGRA"1
SELECTED INDICATORS                               1965-70    1970-75       1976        FAsCINo    O  PI1   INVESdiENr          R A
6    As 7 of Total C-pital Expendit... I
Arerage ICOR                                     4.5          4.7        -          Public Sector Savin                           35.4        24.3     5.7
Import Elasticity                                0.8          1.0        3.5       Domestic Borrosing (net)                       35.7        40.7   58.2
Imports/GDP                                     41.7        46.2        39.4       Excernal Borrowing (net)                       28.2        34.5   30.9
Exports/CDP                                     39.5         36.0       34.5        Other                                          0.7         0.5     5.2
Valus Added Per Worker
EMPLOYMENT AND OUTPUT                              Total Employed                                              i1974 Price-  and E-change RNtes)
PER  3ORKER                               Thousands               % of Total                                        L-S$               R of Average
1969        1975        1969        1975                              1969       1975         1969       1975
Agric-lture                        232.8        223.3        37.7       32.8                             662.4       864.3        21.1        24.4
Manufacturing                       68.4         74.7        11.1       11.0                            3549.7      5350.0       113.0       156.6
Public Administration               54.7         99.0         8.9       14.5                            2972.5      2692.0        04.6        76.0
Other                              261.1        283.8        42.3       41.7                            3872.9      6099.4       123.3       172.1
Total or Average                   617.0        680.8      1OO0.       100.0                            3141.0      7543.2       000.0       100.0
Net applicoble.                                                                                        Country Programs Depart-ent II
- nil or negligible.                                                                               Lstin America and Caribbean Regional Office
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 .iy  , lseP



ANNEX 1
Lo8, 4 of A pegno
JAMAOICA
BALANCE O  PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DENI'
?in current US$ filioOs)
19 70        1 9 71       1972         tua19 IY73   719 74           19 75 t5 19769
SUMMHARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Bxports 7incl. DFS)                                  521.6        543.0         568.7        631.6         971.3          1109.9                         987.7                        14.5         -11.0
mporLs (incl. NFS)                                  598.0        632.8         660.8        780.7        1098.2          1315.7                        1130.3                        15.9         -14.1
Resource Nlec-    7                                  .76.4        -89.8         -92.1       -149.1        -126.9          _ 205.9                       -142.6                         5.7          -30.7
Ittere t I'll)                                        -5-7        _10.7         -11.9        -21.9         -33.0           _47,7                        - 66.9                        34.6          40.3
Oth0c  Fqctor Servce- In.ome (net)                   -92.5        -92.1        -107.7        -36.2         -34.6           -57.6                        - 54.2                                      - 5.9
Ctt_rent Tr__e fr,  0ncE)                             22.1         20.6          241.7         26.4         23.'.           28.7                           17.5                        6.3          -39.0
Dalencecon Currentt AYYoOIIEC                       -T12         -i7)T_         -M          -17507        -1T_            -282.5                        -246.2                         5.9
Private Direct ID-V-tleYt (c-t)                      154.1        101.9          17.4          33.7         23.3            -1.9                        -  8.8                       -5Q.1            -
Public M&LT torns
Disbur6men,tr                                      18.0         28.4          48.1        148.3         187.F           246.7                         148.7                        54.9         -39.7
-_Rem yote                                          -893        -10.9        -0-.1         -16.9         -55.6           -31.9                        -119.6                        17.8         55.5
Net DOehorentt                                         9.7          17.5         29.0         131.4        156.2        ;       r                          99.1                      013.2         -53.9
Cnpitel Tr-nteot-ons n.e.i.                           10.0          96.6         95.0         -14.8         51.9           -11.4          ,             -132.8
Ch-tge Ln Net Rt er-e-  (- IEoee...)                 -21.3        -44.0          45.6          30.5        -59.4            81.0                         288.7
ANDUCD                                    let.                                         1970          1970      1972       1973 ~~~~7.t.1974   193       97
GRANT AND LOAN COHHITMENDTS                              1970          1971          1972         1973          1974            1975      2;7g      DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE               1970         1971       1972       1973          4      9 LS    t1976
Officisl Gri nts & G-tnt-like L.o-c                    6.2           8.7          3.0            -             -               -          -      PObliS Dubt Out. & Disb,tctl 129.0              147.9     177.0       396.0    474.8   647.4   799.0
Public 9ILT Lo.e                                                                                                                                   Itnter.et o- Pubtic Debt         5.7           10.7       12.3       17.4       32.8    49.9    47.2
IBRD                                                5.7         13.5            -           9.3          46.5            15.0        6.9         Repuy-tt  oc P          Iblic Debt   9.3     t0.9       19.1        16.9      31.6    31.9    1.8 6
IDA                                                  -      -                                                      -                  -          T.tel Pubitc Debt Serctce  14.0               21.6      31.4        34.3      64.4    R0.9    9508
Othr MIultilater.l                                   -           2.1            -            6.9         19.0              7.2       22.2        Other Debt S-rvice (-et)                                ..          ..        ..
Cover,oeent                                        17.9         26.9          34.8         27.8          10.9            39.3       148.1        Total Debt Se ce (ni t)         ..             ..        ..          . 
Supplers                                             -          13.5           9.6           2.2           _              1.9
Plntncial  -cst,ttioN-   rlvete                      -          15.9          60.7        109.8         138.4           142.7        20.7     B-rden cn Eeport E-rOiNEg  (/)
Bonde                                                -            .           10.0          14.0                           -         10.2
PublLt  ItoaT   __ne2.                     70.67                                .-                        2.4             2.0       46.9         Pablic Debt Serelco             2.7            4      0              5 4       6 6       7 3     9 7
ToteS Pel,Sic 9141.2tacen  ~)W              7)~         TT- 0~7                    )TI7T2           209.1       254.9        Tot-l Deb   ccc                  ..                        ~~                            .       -
TDS,Dirct I-toLt. Ic        20.4            20.9      94.5       10.2       19.2    12.5    15.2
Acerage Tc.tc-  of Public Debt
Int. a- % Prior Teat DO&D   4.0                7.9       8.3        9.8       10.7    10.3       7.3
Debt YSattsteAnin  on Dcc. 31. 1936                                          A-ort. ao 2 Pricr Year DO&D 3.7                8.4      12.9         9.5      10.3      6.7       7.5
Diruhreed SOnly                     Percent                                       lR   uEItt      DbEY               993.
EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                                                                                        IBRD Dcbt Out, & Dtsbu-d    29,8                 33.7      34.8        36.6      37.8    44.1    58.7
dWerld Bank                                                          58.7                             7 3                                           "      /. Puhlic Dcbt 0&D       23.0           22.7      19.7        12.     0   .      6.        7.3
ID'A                                                                                                                                               "   ts 2. Ptibli  Debt Service  11.7           13.2       12.1 a2 8              7 I    6 6        6 4
Other Multilat-rol                                                   12.5                             1.6
llu - -et.                                                          228.2                            29.6
Suppliern                                                            17.5                             2.2
Ein-neiul Inetitutios                                               384.9                            48 .2
DunAn                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13.9         0.5
Public Debt  n.-i.                                                   53 646
ToteD Pubtic MhLT Loons                                             798.9                           100.0
not applti-ble.                             - nil -t ttgliiblc.                                                                                                                                               Co-tnry Pcogrem-  Dleparteent
ou ntt uvutleblo.                                                                                                                                                                                  tacic A-erica a-d C-ribbhha   Regionsl Office
M.y 315, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as at March 31, 1977)
----US$ million----
Loan      Fiscal                                                              Amount
No.        Year              Borrower            Purpose               (less cancellation)
Bank    Undisbursed
5 loans fully disbursed 1/                                             44.3
690       1970      Jamaica                  Population                2.0         0.2
727       1971      Jamaica                  Education                13.5         7.9
899       1973      Jamaica                  Highways                  9.3         2.6
1003       1974      Jamaica                  Sites & Services        15.0         11.8
1004       1974      Jamaica
Development Bank      Agriculture               5.5          2.2
1032       1975      Jamaica                 Highways                  13.5         9.4
1043       1975      Jamaica                 Airports                  12.5         7.9
1146       1975      The Water Commission
Kingston, Jamaica    Sewerage/Water            15.0         14.3
1284       1976      Jamaica                 Population                6.8          6.8
Total (net cancellation)                        137.4
of which has been repaid                         11.9
Total now outstanding                           125.5
Amount sold                        1.6
of which has been repaid           1.4            0.2
Total now held by Bank                          125.3
Total undisbursed                                             63.1
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as at March 31, 1977)
Type of           -----US$ million-----
Year              Obligor                        Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1961     Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.              Pre-mix concrete         0.2              0.2
1968     Pegasus Hotel of Jamaica Ltd.   Tourism                    2.2      0.7     2.9
Total gross commitments                                    2.4     0.7      3.1
Less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                                1.2              1.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                          1.2     0.7      1.9
Total undisbursed                                            -       -        -
1/   A telecommunications loan (481-JM) was made in 1967 to the Jamaica
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   Proiects in Execution
Ln. No. 690 Population Project; US$2.0 million of June 18, 1970; Effective
Date: November 2, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1977.
The project is substantially completed.  All loan funds have been
committed and disbursements will be completed in the near future.
Ln. No. 727  Second Education Project; US$13.5 million of March 25, 1971;
Effective Date:  July 30, 1971; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977.
Project implementation is about three years behind appraisal
schedule due to a change in government, high turnover in project unit staff
and a lack of project implementation machinery. However, project implementa-
tion now seems satisfactory. As a result of initial delays in getting the
physical aspects of the project underway, the construction of schools will
not be completed before August 1977. Thus, the Closing Date, originally
December 31, 1975, has been extended to December 31, 1977. Due to sharp
increases in prices and wages in the construction sector since appraisal, a
substantial construction cost overrun of about US$15 to 18 million, or about
60% to 65% of appraisal estimates, can be expected. Counterpart funds are
available, however, to allow project implementation to proceed satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 899 Road Improvement and Maintenance Project; US$9.3 million of
June 1, 1973; Effective Date: August 31, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After some initial delays and quality control problems, the
resurfacing and resealing program is proceeding satisfactorily. The tech-
nical assistance and training programs of the consultants are also proceeding
satisfactorily. Total project costs are estimated to be about 50% above the
appraisal estimate due to increased costs of asphaltic overlay; nevertheless,
the project is estimated to have a rate of return of about 30%.
Ln. No. 1003 Sites and Services Project; US$15.0 million of June 13, 1974;
Effective Date: September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
The project is nearly one year behind schedule. Delays were
caused by initial start-up problems and political violence which halted work
on one site. The industry component of the project has been revised to give
greater emphasis to small-scale enterprise.
Ln. No. 1004 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$5.5 million of June 13,
1974; Effective Date: October 3, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1977.
Project funds have been entirely committed.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Ln. No. 1032  Third Highway Project; US$13.5 million of JuLy 26, 1974Z
Effective Date:  September 27, :9jj Closi               DecemGber 1
1977.
Construction has been delayed due to adverse weather conditions,
redesign of some sections and labor problems. Although most project elements
are now proceeding satisfactorily, the delays that have been encountered will
undoubtedly lead to an as yet undetermined escalation in prcject costs.
Ln. No. 1043 Airport Development Project; US$12.5 million cf October 2, 1974;
Effective Date: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: Jun 30e, L1973
All major contracts have now been awarded, but earlier delays
encountered during the design and award phases, mean that the project comple-
tion date will slip from 12 to 18 months, ane the project cost will probably
exceed appraisal estimates by about 10%. Though execution of work in progress
has been slower than expected, the Government's tight fiscal situation makes
the revised construction schedule more acceptable. The Airports Authority's
aggressive management has improved this institution's financial position in
spite of reduced traffic and high inflation. Nonetheless, the Authority will
be unable to supply its contribution to the project financing plan. The short-
fall will be made up by the Government with aelp from the Venezuelan Investment
Fund.
Ln. No. 1146 Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project; US$15 million of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: June 24 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
Delays are being experienced in negotiating consultant contracts.
This is in turn causing some delay in proceeding with major components.
Ln. No. 1284 Second Population Project; US$6.8 million of June 17, 1976;
Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December l1,
1980.
The loan became effective two weeks ahead of schedule. A good
start in the implementation of the project has been made.  In civil works and
procurement of special equipment, the project is ahead of the schedule in the
Appraisal Report by about a month.  The Cornwall County Program, which is the
main component of the project covering nearly 25% of the population of Jamaica,
is being implemented on schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       September 1974-September 1975
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    Jamaican Ministry of Agriculture
prepared the project with the assis-
tance of other government agencies and
several FAO/CP and Bank missions.
(c)  Project first_presented to
the Bank:                           July 1974
(d)  First Bank mission to review
project:                            July 1975
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:   November 30, 1975
(f)  Completion of negotiations:         December 10, 1976 1/
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    August 31, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   A formal approval by the Goverrnent of a plan for the reorganiza-
tion of the Ministry of Agriculture would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 56).
2.   The adoption of guidelines for operating policies and procedures
for the Agricultural Settlements, which shall include a land rent
review mechanism would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
57b).
3.   The traininig program for Ministry of Agriculture employees would be
cuil,kieted and submitted to the Bank within six months oL loan signing
(para. 56c).
4.   The Government would acquire 4,000 acres for settlement purposes within
six months of loan signing (para. 57a).
1/   The uncertain Jamaican economic situation ovec the last year, and the
time required for its assessment, contributed to delays in project
processing.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
5.   Settlement plans not prepared by the time of loan signing would be
completed within one year of loan signing (para. 57b).
6.   The Government would provide the necessary funds to maintain the roads
constructed under the project (para. 57c).
7.   The Jamaica Development Bank would act as collection agent for the
mortgage payments by the settlers (para. 57d).
8.   The Government would cause the Jamaica Public Service Company and the
National Water Authority to provide a timely supply of electricity and
water for settlement (para. 57e).
9.   The Government would assure the availability of adequate credit funds
(para. 58).
10.  User rates for food markets would be charged which would recover opera-
tion and maintenance costs, as well as capital expenditures at an annual
interest of 8% (para. 59b).
11.  User rates for water would recover operation and maintenance cost and, to
the extent practical, capital expenditures, taking into account the pay-
ment capacity and preparedness of the users to pay (para. 59c).



[BRD 12026
78~~~~OO                                                       7705'                                                MAY  t97~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
CAR'    / 'A  'V  ~~~~~~~~~~~W
G.6,gi                                       Ml~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iA.
tOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hl                                                                                                       .
m-tp.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Litti.                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIRST  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
w                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED DEVELOPMENSTS:
Woter s,,pply syste-s
m                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SETTLEMEN'T SITE NAMES
f  I  ll                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo,riego Valley /Y-rk
-him    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seetwater
Ke-nil-oth
Pellriner
Bur-tgroud
Whiehll
T. M-d.,W ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ananMonti
MILES                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING:
Main ateia. rad
COUNTY                                            MParsh boun)daries
'1     A  M      A   ICA- Couty boundary
lRiankr                                                                                                                                                                              Elen-tion  one, lOOT0 feet
A,ari coe,ed~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                h ee,e,tcn~i euia,,
AR  BfiFAiV  SEA                                                                                                                                       '-      cony ununrunneere,~~~~~~~EA  Ml cIn,en N~ -i
c  R 3 B F A A?  si~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5'0                                                                                                      S's'                                c-i-- S d , qttsn



