CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1464 JM
Loan Agreement
(Rura?. Development Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 29, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1977, between JAMAICA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Area" means the Western Region of Jamaica;
(b) "Agricultural Settlements" means the agricultural settle-
ments included in Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
(c) "Settlers" means farmers participating in the Project;
and
(d) "participating agencies" means the Ministries of the
Borrower responsible for Finance, Agriculture, Works, Local
Government, Health, Housing, Education, Commerce, Agricultural
Marketing, Public Utilities and Parish Councils in the Project
Area.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrover, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall, in accordance with a
schedule of implementation agreed to with the Bank, carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall provide in its annual budgets ade-
quate sums to cover the costs of the Project to be borne by the
Borrower, said sums to be administered by the Borrower's Ministry
responsible for Finance. Sums intended for: (A) the maintenance by
the Ministry responsible for Works and Parish Councils of public
roads constructed or improved under the Project; (B) the provision
of services by the Ministries responsible for Public Health and
Education to the Agricultural Settlements; and (C) the provision
of farm development and crop production credit to the Settlers,
shall be clearly identifiable in the relevant budget documents.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and spe-
cialists whose qualifications and experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall appoint a qualified and
experienced person in the Ministry responsible for Agriculture as
Project Coordinator for the Project on terms and conditions (in-
cluding terms of reference) satisfactory to the Bank. The Project


﻿-6-
Coordinator shall, under the supervision of the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry responsible for Agriculture, be responsible for the
coordination and supervision of the execution of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in its Ministry
responsible for Agriculture a unit satisfactory to the Bank which
shall evaluate and monitor the progress of the Project.
Section 3.04. The operating policies and procedures for the
Project shall be as set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the
said Schedule being subject to modification by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause its Ministry re-
sponsible for Agriculture: (i) to complete no later than one year
after the date of this Agreement or within such other period as
the Borrover and the Bank may determine detailed physical plans
and engineering designs, satisfactory to the Bank, for the deve-
lopment of all the Agricultural Settlements; and (ii) to assign
on a full-time basis to each settlement site one site manager,
one extension officer and one soil conservation officer for such
period as is necessary for the satisfactory development of the
settlement site.
(b) The Borrower shall no later than six months after the
date of this Agreement or within such other period as the Borrower
and the Bank may determine send to the Bank the final details of
the program for training of staff under Part A (2) of the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall make appropriate arrange-
ments with the Jamaica Public Service Company Limited to supply
electricity, and the National Water Authority or other appropriate
agency to supply water, to all the Agricultural Settlements in ac-
cordance with the schedule of implementation referred to in Sec-
tion 3.01 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause its Ministries respon-
sible for Social Services, Education and Health to provide adequate
educational facilities, and health and social services for the
Settlers.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall take all action neces-
sary, including appropriate arrangements with the Jamaica Develop-
ment Bank, to provide adequate farm development and crop production
credit to the Settlers.
(b) The Borrower shall also make appropriate arrangements
with the Jamaica Development Bank to collect on behalf of the
Borrower all amounts payable by the Settlers in respect of farm
houses provided to them under the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall no later than six months after the date of this
Agreement or within such other period as the Borrower and the
Bank may determine: (i) review in consultation with the parish
councils charges for the use of markets constructed under the
Project and determine the scheduae of charges which will suffice
to cover all operating and maintenance costs of the markets and
to yield an annual rate of return of at least 8% on the amounts


﻿-8-
expended in respect of the capital costs of the markets; (ii)
establish a schedule satisfactory to the Bank for the implemen-
tation of the charges determined under (i) above; and (iii) after
an appropriate review of the existing water rates levy or cause
to be levied, to such extent as is practicable and agreed to by
the Bank, adequate water rates sufficient to cover all operating,
maintenance and capital costs of the water supply extensions and
systems provided under the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-9-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on its obligations
under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall no later than six
months after the date of this Agreement or within such other
period as the Borrower and the Bank may determine acquire about
4,000 acres additionally in locations identified by the Borrower
as suitable for the Agricultural Settlements and acceptable to
the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in e priority for the benefit of
the creditor cf such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 11 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the participating
agencies to maintain records relating to the Project adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their respective operations and financial
condition.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the accounts and financial
statements (statements of income and expenses and related state-
ments, if any) of the participating agencies for each fiscal year
to be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the said financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail.as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning their accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the promulgation by the Borrower of guidelines for
operating policies and procedures for the Agricultural Settlements
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include a land rent review
mechanism; and
(b) approval by the Borrower of a plan for the reorganization
of its Ministry of Agriculture substantially based on the Borrower's
"Review of Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture" published
in November 1975 and referred to in Part A (1) of the Project.
Section 5.02. The date September 27, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Kingston, Jamaica
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
JAMAICA
By Is/ David Coore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Reorganization of the
Ministry of Agriculture:
(a) Civil works,           1,300,000         55%
including
regional and
local offices
and staff
houses
(b) Training                 300,000         55%
(c) Vehicles                 200,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Agricultural Settlements:
(a) Civil works, in-       4,000             55%
cluding farm hous-
ing, water supply,
electrification,
settlement roads,
community facili-
ties, soil conser-
vation and foresta-
tion


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) Physical plan-           600,o0         55%
ning, adminis-
tration and
supervision
(3) Regional Infrastructure:
Civil works, includ-       5,100,000         55%
ing feeder roads,
markets, water sup-
ply and sanitation
(4) Unallocated                 3,500,000
TOTAL      15,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or service., supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000, may
be made in respect of physical planning of Agricultural Settlements
and engineering, design and construction of markets and feeder
roads under Categories (2) (b) and (3) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after July 31, 1976.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of


﻿- 19 -
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   (1) Reorganization of the Ministry responsible for Agriculture
in accordance with the recormendations in the Report of
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Service including con-
struction of 2 new regional office buildings, at Montego
Bay and Highgate, 30 local offices and 40 staff houses
and purchase of 30 four-wheel drive vehicles.
(2) Training of staff of the Ministry responsible for
Agriculture.
B.   (1  Establishment of Agricultural Settlements in the Western
Region for lazidless families and farm families with in-
sufficient land including construction of approximately
10 miles of access roads, 10 miles of village roads and
40 miles of farm roads, construction of about 820
farm houses, provision of wecer and electricity services,
land development including one acre of readily cultivable
land for each Settler and forestation and provision of
other essential community facilities.
(2) Provision of consultancy and specialist services (not
including recurrent services) for physical planning,
administration and supervision.


﻿- 21 -
C.   Improvement of economic and social infrastructure in the
Western Region including construction or reconstruction of
about 70 miles of rural feeder roads, construction or
rehabilitation of 9 parish markets, extension of 37 water
supply systems and construction of about 6,000 waste
disposal units.
Further details of Part B of the Project are set out in the
Annex to this Schedule, said Annex bein- 'ubject to modification
by agreement between the Borrower and tL Bank.
*               e           e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 22 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Further Details of Settlement
No. of    No. of
Total    Cultivable Full-Time Supplementary
Settlement Sites   Acreage    Acres      Settlers   Tenants
A.   St. James Parish
1) Montego Valley*
York           2,976     1,360        190        110
2) Vaughansfield*   1,949       64o         40        200
3) Sweetwater       1,000       520         80         20
B.   Hanover Parish
1) Kennilvorth*     2,293**     830        105        100
2) Pellriver          728       520         70         50
3) Burnt Ground*    1,750     1,010        130         50
C.   Westmorland Parish
1) Whitehall*       3,313       560         70
2) Canaan Mountain*   960       480         80
3) Leamington       1,718       480         55         50
16,687     6,4oo        820        580
*    Sites already acquired by Borrower.
** Acreage excludes Kennilworth Youth Camp.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1981
through December 1, 1993                          555,000
On June 1, 1994                                        570,00
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         8.20%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the purchase of all vehicles or for individual
civil works contracts 6r package of contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more but less than $250,000 shall be procured under con-
tracts to be let after competitive bidding based on local advertis-
ing in accordance with the Borrower's procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $50,000 shall be procured on the basis of negotiated
contracts or executed by force account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to


﻿- 26 -
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Bor-
rower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifica-
tions in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rover shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison


﻿- 27 -
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.   Reorganization of the Ministry responsible for Agriculture
(a) The Ministry shall be responsible for its own reorganiza-
tion. The Ministry's headquarters shall consist of: (i) the Office
of the Ministry's Permanent Secretary, Kingston; (ii) a Board of
Management; (iii) an Inter-Ministerial Standing Committee for Land
Reform and Rural Development; and (iv) Divisions of Planning,
Policy Review and Marketing, Special Programs, Data Bank and
Evaluation, Research, Extension Services and Support Services.
(b) The Inter-Ministerial Standing Committee for Land Reform
and Rural Development shall consist of a Chairman who shall be the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry responsible for Agriculture
and representatives of the Ministries responsible for Finance,
Works, Local Government, Health, Housing, Education, Commerce,
Agricultural Marketing, Public Utilities, Social Services and such
other ministries or agencies as ^he Borrower may determine. The
Committee shall assist the Ministry responsible for Agriculture
to coordinate and supervise the execution of the Project. The said
Committee shall meet at least once every three months.
(c) Regional Directors of the Ministry responsible for Agri-
culture shall be responsible for field programs of that Ministry.
The Regional Directors will liaise with representatives of public
institutions at the regional level and will also coordinate activi-
ties of Parish Managers of the said Ministry in their respective
Regions.


﻿- 29 -
(d) Parish Managers will supervise the execution of the Min-
istry's field programs by field officers for extension, land lease,
agricultural development and engineering.
2.   Agricultural Settlements
(a) The Ministry responsible for Agriculture shall be respon-
sible for the detailed planning and implementation of the Agricul-
tural Settlements. The said Ministry's Western Regional Office,
acting through site managers stationed at the settlement sites,
shall have direct responsibility for the establishment of the Agri-
cultural Settlements and the provision of support services for farm
development. Complementary services shall be provided by the Com-
missioner of Lands who shall be responsible for the acquisition of
settlement sites. The Ministry responsible for Housing shall arrange
for house building materials, the Jamaica Public Service Company
Limited for the supply of electricity, the National Water Authority
and Parish Councils for the supply of water, Parish offices of the
Ministry assisted by the Parish Councils for the building of settle-
ment infrastructure and Jamaica Development Bank for the supply of
credit to Settlers and the collection of amounts payable by farmers
in respect of farm houses provided under the Project. The Social
Development Coimission shall provide social services to Settlers
including vocational training and the Ministries responsible for
Health and Education shall, after the completion of the Agricul-
tural Settlements, review the need for additional health and edu--
cational facilities and make appropriate arrangements for providing
such facilities.
(b) The Borrower shall invite applications from prospective
Settlers. The application shall be on standard form and shall


﻿- 30 -
state details of age, educational background, farming experience,
location of present residence, period of residence at the said
residence, family size, assets and income. Applicants shall be
interviewed by a site manager and an area extension officer and
recommendations would be based on a pre-established evaluation
system. Priority shall be given to persons who had worked on the
land before it was purchased by the Borrower. Other applicants
shall be evaluated on a points system which gives priority to
farming ability and social need. Applicants with incomes higher
than twice the target level of 2,000 Jamaican dollars and appli-
cants residing more than 2 miles from the settlement sites are
ineligible for settlement. A Selection dommittee consisting of
the regional land lease officer as chairman, the parish and site
managers and representatives of Social Development Commission
and the Jamaica Development Bank shall review the pre-selection
recommendation and determine the Settlers to be selected.
(c) Settlers selected shall undergo a probationary period
before entering upon a lease. During such period they shall be
employed in the construction of civil works and land development
works on the settlement sites to the extent practicable. Each
Settler eligible to receive a house under the Project shall also
receive about 5 to 8 acres of land.
(d) A lease shall inter alia, require Settlers to develop
and use land in accordance with sound soil conservation and crop
cultivation practices and shall provide eviction as penalty for
non-compliance. The annual land rent shall be 2% of the commer-
cial price of the land, the rent to be reviewed by the Borrower
after a 5 year development period for Project Land Lease II and


﻿- 31 -
III Settlers. The Borrower shall promulgate guidelines for opera-
ting policies and procedures for the Agricultural Settlements
satisfactory to the Bank which shall specify details of settle-
ment procedure and include mechanism for review of rents.
(e) Parish extension and soil conservation officers shall
assist Settlers in the preparation of farm and crop development
plans including suitable soil conservation measures.
3.   Regional Infrastructure
(a) The Ministry responsible for Local Government will be
responsible for the construction of the parish markets. The said
Ministry will prepare designs and engineering specifications and
let the civil works contracts. Individual Parish Councils will
supervise construction of, and later operate and maintain, the
markets.
(b) The Ministry responsible for Local Government through
the Parish Councils will carry out the extension of water supply
systems under the Project. The Parish Councils will design the
water supply extensions. The designs will be reviewed by the
National Water Authority where appropriate and approved by the
Ministry responsible for Local Government. The Parish Councils
will also supervise construction of the extensions and will be
responsible for their maintenance.
(c) The Ministry responsible for Health will carry out a
campaign to identify households without sanitary facilities
which axe prepared to participate in the Project. The Parish


﻿- 32 -
Councils will prepare designs and material lists which shall be
reviewed by the Ministry responsible for Local Government. Where
appropriate the National Water Authority will be consulted with
respect to the location of the waste disposal units. Parish
Councils will provide the necessary materials for the beneficia-
ries who will carry out the installation of the waste disposal
units.
4.   Administration of Project Funds and Reports
(a) The Ministry responsible for Finance will administer
Project funds. At the beginning of each financial year of the
Borrower provision will be made under the Ministry of Finance
Head of Estimates to meet the estimated expenditure requirements
for all the components of the Project for the ensuing financial
year. The ministries and agencies of the Borrower responsible
for the physical implementation of the Project will incur ex-
penditure on approved items as a charge to the provision in the
Ministry of Finance Head of Estimates. The primary accounting do-
cuments will be kept in the Ministry of Finance and these will
be used by the Ministry of Finance to support requests to the
Bank for reimbursement of expenditure against the Project. At
the close of each financial year the expenditure incurred on
the Project will be re-distributed in the Supplementary Esti-
mates to the Heads of Estimates of the appropriate ministries
and agencies. Every participating agency will maintain separate
accounts for all expenditures incurred in respect of their re-
spective components of the Project. All vouchers =nd documents
will be verified and approved before payment by the participating
agency's own audit section.


﻿- 33 -
(b) Participating agencies will prepare quarterly reports
giving a concise picture of the status of execution of their re-
spective components of the Project. These reports would be sent
to the Project Coordinator for consolidation into a single report
and submission to the Inter-Ministerial Standing Committee on Land
Reform and Rural Development for its comments. This Report and the
Committee's comments, if any, will serve as the quarterly progress
report to be sent to the Bank.


