Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12166-IlN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 17, 1994
MI CROGRAPH I CS
Report No:         12166 ID
Type: SAR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



CURRENCY
(As of March 1994)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00      = Rp2,105
Rp 1,000     =  US$0.475
Rp I million  =  US$475.06
WEIGHIS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AARD           -   Agency for Agricultural Research and Developent
AAET           -    Agency for Agriculture Education and Training
AMDAL          -   Environmental Impact Analysis
AWB            -   Asian Wetiand Bureau
BAPEDAL             Environmental Impact Control Agency
BAPPEDA             Provincial Development Planning Office
BAPPENAS    -   National Development Planning Agency
BPKP           -   Government Audit Agency
BPN                 National Land Agency
DFCAE               Directorate of Food Crop Agriculture Extension (in DGFCH)
DGE                 Directorate General of Estates
DGFCH          -   Directorate General of Food Crops and Horticulture
DGPHPA              Directorate  General of Forestry  Protection  and  Nature
Conservation
DGWRD               Directorate General of Water Resources Development
DLRD           -   Directorate of Land Rehabilitation and Development Cm DGFCH)
DOS            -   Directorate of Swamps (in DGWRD)
EA             -   Environmental Assessment
FSTA           -   Farming Systems Technology Adaptation
GOI            -   Government of Indonesia
ICB            -   International Competitive BWding
ISDP           -   Integrated Swanps Development Project
KOMPUS         -   Central Commission for Environmental Impact Assessment
(in MPW)
LCB            -   Local Competitive Bidding
MOA            -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOF            -   Ministy of Finance
MPW                 Ministry of Public Works
O&M            -   Operation and Maince
PASS           -   Potential Acid Sulphate Soils
P2DR           -   Swamp Area Development Project
P3S            -   TIdal Land Irrigation Project
PIMPRO         -   Piplnan Proyek (Project Manager)
PMU            -   Project Management Unit
PRAS           -   Provincial Agricultural Services
PWRS           -   Provincial Water Resources Services
REC            -   Rural Extension CeXners
SOE            -   Statement of Expenditures
SSKSDA         -   Provincial National Parks Service
TCSDP          -   Tree Crops Smaliholder Developmenw Project
WID            -   Women In Development
WUA            -   Water Users Associaion



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SummARY
Borrower:                Republic of Indonesia
Loan Amount:             US$65.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:     The main objective of the project is to alleviate poverty in
selected swamp schemes through further development of their
agricultural potential.  It would also assist GOI in its
management of part of the coastal zone and help ensure
sound environmental practices in swamp development. The
project would be implemented over a six year period
(1994 - 2000) in twenty existing swamp settlement schemes,
covering a potential net cultivable area of about 55,000 ha,
in Jambi, Riau and West Kalimantan Provinces which are
among the poorest provin.es in Indonesia. It would include
the following main components:
(a)   rehabilitation of existing and construction of new water
control structures, ,and support for better water management
practices;
(b)   promotion of food crop production through support for
research and extension with associated provision of seeds,
pest control and seasonal inputs;
(c)   development of tree crops, including land titling and
certification, in an area of about 12,500 ha;
(d)   improvement of rural infrastructure through rehabilitation of
existing or construction of new roads, bridges and jetties,
and provision of potable water facilities; and
(e)   improvement of coastal zone land use management, including
the preparation of an Environmental Profile in West
Kalimantan and support for the development of the Berbak
National Park Buffer Zone in Jambi. Training and technical
assistance would be provided to assist GOI agencies with the
inplementation of the project.
Benefits and Risks:      The project is the first attempt at an integrated approach to
upgrading of existing transmigration schemes in Indonesia's
coastal swamp areas.  It would help provide greater
|This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfmaneof thei
official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authozation.



- ii -
protection of environments of swamp schemes, thus ensuring
their long-term sustainability for agricultural produeion, and
as such provide a basis for upgrading other swamp schemes
in Indonesia. The project would directly improve the
incomes of about 32,000 farm families with average present
incomes below US$300 per annum through increased food
crop and tree crop production and enhanced on-farm
employment opportunities. The main potnti project risk
include:   (a) lack  of itegration  of infastructure
improvements with agricultural development activities;
(b) slow progress in the farmers' adoption of the proposed
technological improvements; and (c) lapses in O&M of water
management infrastructure. With a focus on inter-agency
coordination, provision of improved agricultral support
services (adaptive research, extension and input financing),
and efficient O&M of the water control i uc, the
project has been designed to minimize    risks.
Estmated Cost La                          Local      Foreig      Total
US$ million
A.  Water Control Infrastructre            21.4         10.7      32.1
B.  Food Crop Production                    9.7          1.3      11.0
C.  Agricultural Field Research             2.8          0.4       3.2
D.  Tree Crop Development
Cocomnt Plating                       13.8          2.6     16.4
Land Itling                            0.8          0.2      1.0
Subtotal D                           14.6         2.8      17.4
E.  Rural Itructure
Roads and Bridges                      4.3          2.9      7.2
Potable Water Supply                   6.0          2.0      8.0
Subtotal E                           10.3         4.9      15.2
F. Coastal Zone Management
Berbak Park & Buffer Zone              1.5          1.2      2.7
Envhuiental Profile                    0.2          0.2      0.4
Subtotal F                            1.7          1.4      3.1
G.  Project Management                      2.3          1.7       4.0
Total Baseline Cost                    62.8        23.2      86.0
Physical Contingencies                  4.8         2.2       7.0
Price Contingencies                    10.9         2.1      13.0
Total Project Cost                     zX      
La Inclusive of taes and duties esimated at US$7.1 minlion equivalent.



- iii -
Fnancing Plan                             Local     Foreign     Total
- --US$ tnillion  -
Benficiaries                           5.2           -       5.2
Government                            33.5          2.3     35.8
IBRD                                  39.8         25.2     65.0
Total                              zES                   JfLa
Es_mated IBRD Disburse
Bank FY         FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FYOO   FY01
Anmual            4.8     9.7    14.2    15.4    12.0      6.5     2.4
Cumulative        4.8    14.5    28.7    44.1    56.1    62.6    65.0
Economic
Rate of Return:       15%
Poverty Cateory:       Program of targeted interventions to improve living standards
of predominantly poor swamp farmers, intr alia, through
increased food and tree crop production, provision of potable
water, and enhanced on-farm employment oppornmities.
Map:                   IBRD 24868 - 24873



- iv -
IDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTM
1. SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND  ......................  1
Agricultural Sector .     ...................................  1
Swamp Faming ...................................... 2
GOI's Swamp Development Objectives and Strategy  ....               ...........  3
Challenges and Issues in Swamp Development ...................  3
Insttutionl Framework .................................  5
2. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED   ....                             ...........  7
Experience in Swamp Development ..........................  7
Lessons Learned from Previous Projects .......................  8
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement ....................  9
3. THE PRJE          .......................................   10
A. Project Background ...........              .....................   10
B. Project Concept and Objectives .........................   11
C. Project Scope ..................................... 12
D. Detaied Project Features  ........             ....................   12
Water Control Infrastructure  .........................   12
Food Crop Production  ........             .....................   13
Tree Crop Development ........               ....................   14
Land Titling .................................... 15
Rural Inastucre.             ..............................   15
Coastal Zone Land Use Management ....................   16
Technical Assistance  .........            .....................   17
E. Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule ....           .........  18
F. Environmental Aspects ..................,..19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprised of Messrs.
H. van Voorthuizen (Task Manager), G. Tumusiime, D. Leeuwrik, R. Crooks,
G. Temple, J. Prunel, W. Soehendro (Bank) and S. Niaz (Consultant) which visited
Indonesia in January/Februay 1993. The Peer Reviewers were Messrs. J. Cunningham
(civil works) and K. Yeow (agriculture development) and Ms. J. Aden (environmental
aspects). Mrs. M. Haug, Director, EA3, and Mr. A. Cole, Division Chief, EA3AG, have
endorsed the project.



4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   .........                 ...............  21
Project Costs ............ 21
Financing Plan .......                                                    22
Financing of Proposed Development Activities .......    22
Procurement ....... 23
Disbursements .......  26
Accounts and Audits ........  27
5. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION   .... ...  28
Project Orgaiation and Management ......................  28
Project Monitoring  ..........         ........................  29
Budget Procedures  ..........          ........................  29
6. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY  31
Agricultural Production  ...............................  31
Marketing ........................................  31
Farm Incomes . ..................................... 32
Cost Recovery .       ....................................  33
7. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ...................  35
Benefits .......................................... 35
Economic Analysis ..................................  35.
Project Risks and Uncertainties ...........................  36
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                         ........  37
Assurances ........................................ 37
Conditions of Disbursement .............................  38
Recommendation  ...........            ........................  39
Tables in the Main Text
Table 3.1     Technical Assistance Requirements ....................  18
Table 4.1     Project Ccit Summary ............................  21
Table 4.2     Project Financing Plan ............................  22
Table 4.3     Procurement Arrangements .........................  26
Table 6.1     Net Crop Income per Ha ..........................  32
Table 6.2     Summary Indicators for Farm Budgets ......        ............  33
Table 7.1     Sensitivity Analysis . .............................  36



- vi -
Annexes
1. Criteria for Selection of Swamp Schemes
Table 1. Project Area
2. Drainage Structures, Roads and Jetties
Table 1. Hydrological Civil Works and Equipment
Table 2. Procurement Packages for Civil Works
3. Operation and Maintenance
4. Agricultural Extension for Swamp Areas
5. Agricultural Research for Swamp Areas
6. Tree Crop Development
Attachment 1. Criteria for Screening Coconut Farmers
Table 1. Proposed Participants for Coconut Development
Table 2. Planting Phasing for Coconut Development
7. Potable Water Supply
8. Coastal Zone Land Use Management
Attachment 1. Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Specialists
9. Consultant Services
Table 1. Technical Assistarce Requirements
10. Project Cost
Table 101 Coordination of Provincial Activities - Jambi
Table 102 Coordination of Provincial Activities - Riau
Table 103 Coordination of Proinvical Activities - West Kalimantan
Table 104 Consulting Services
Table 201 Drainage and Irrigation - Jambi
Table 202 Drainage and Irrigation - Riau
Table 203 Drainage and Irrigation - West Kalimantan
Table 301 Agricultural Development - Jambi
Table 302 Agricultural Development - Riau
Table 303 Agricultural Development - West Kalimantan
Table 401 Agricultural Research - Jambi
Table 402 Agricultural Research - Riau
Table 403 Agricultural Research - West Kalimantan
Table 404 Agricultural Research - Karang Agung
Table 501 Coconut Development - Jambi
Table 502 Coconut Development - Riau
Table 503 Coconut Development - West Kalimantan
Table 504 Coconut Development - Jakarta



- ii -
Table 601 Rural Roads and Bi.ges - Jambi
Table 602 Rural Roads and Bridges - Riau
Table 603 Rural Roads and Bridges - West Kalimantan
Table 701 Household Water Supply - Jambi
Table 702 Household Water Supply - Riau
Table 703 Household Water Supply - West Kalimantan
Table 801 Berbak Boundaries and Park Management
11. Project Financing and Disbursements
Table 1. Proposed Allocation of Loan
Table 2. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
12. Economic Analysis
Table 1. Fmancial and Economic Prices
Table 2. Economic Budget
Table 3. Economic Analysis by Scheme
13. Project Supervision Plan
14. Selected Documents in the Project File
15. Project implementation Schedule
Charts: 54182 Project Organization
Maps: IBRD 24868-24873



1. SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND
Agricutural Sector
1.1        Agriculture remains a key sector of the Indonesian economy, contributing
21 percent of GDP, providing employment to some 55 percent of the labor fOrce, and
generatng 26 percent of non-oil exports. Of some 24 million ha under cultivation, about
16 million ha are under anmal crops, of which approximately 5.5 million ha are irrigated.
With fte exception of estate crops, nearly all agricultural production is undertkn by the
18 million smallholders, most of whom farm less than 1.0 ha. Farm incomes are
increasingly being supplemented by off-farm employment, contributing 30 perc2nt or more
of net farin incomes. A notable feature of Indonesia's robust economic growth and
macroeconomic stability has been a significant reduction in the incidence of poverty,
particularly in rural areas. Nevertheless, it is estimated that 15 percent (about 18 million
people) of the ural population still live below the poverty line, compared to 20 percent
(about 10 million peopLb) of the urban population. The large majority of the rural poor
live in non irrigated areas, i.e., the uplands and swamps.
1.2        Food crops account for around 60 percent of agricultural GDP. Rice, the
staple food and dominant crop, accounts for 62 percent of the harvested area of all food
crops and 21 percent of agricultural GDP. Maize (17 percent of the food crop area),
cassava (8 percent), and soybeans (6 percent), are important subsidiary food crops.
Indonesia has strong comparative advantages in maize exports and in the production of rice
for the domestic market.
1.3        Growth in agricultural production was about 3.8 percent during 1969-89,
compared with a population growth of 2.1 percent. During that period rice has been te
engine of growth in the sector. The large expansion in irrigation infrastructre has made
a major contribution to the achievement of rice self-sufficiency since 1984 and allowed per
capita consumption to increase from 100 kg per annum in 1976 to almost 140 kg at
present. Paddy production of about 44.0 million tons in 1991 was more than double the
level in 1970, with the increase coming mainly from higher yields on existing irrigated
area. Paddy yields on lava are now around 5.4 ton/ha on irrigated lowlands and 3.6
ton/ha on rain-fed lowlands, and are among the highest in Asia. Average yields tend to
be lower on the Outer Islands but sfill are around 4.7 ton/ha on irrigated lowlands and 2.5
ton/ha on rain-fed lowlands. They are, however, only around 1.0 ton in swamp areas.
Although increased yields accounted for perhaps 75 percent of the increase in output since
1970, the harvested area also rose by more than 30 percent.



-2-
1.4         The World Bank price projections indicate declining real prices for most
conuiodities and increasing fertilizer prices well into the next cenury. This, accompanied
by a leveling of yields and no major breakthrough in rice research on the near horizon,
could make the objective of sustained rice self-sufficiency somewhat fragile. However,
experience of other countries indicates that high growth in the economy is generally
accompanied by a changing food demand pattern leading to a decline in rice demand at
least for the higher income groups. Recent estimates 1/ indicate that the growth of
agricultural GDP is likely to stabilize at about 3 percent per annum, whereas about
2 percent per annum growth in rice production will be neede! to meet the domestic
demand for rice in the medium term while maintaining rice self-sufficiency. The
Government of Indonesia's (GOI) present strategy to maintain this level of growth, as well
as to provide for balanced regional growth and to relieve the pressure in most densely
populated areas, includes expansion of agricultural production into more marginal reas,
including coastal swamps.
Swamp Farming
1.5         Indonesia has an esimated 39 million ha of inland and coastal swamps
(about 20 percent of the total land area), nearly equally divided among Sumatra,
Kaliantmn and Irian Jaya. About 90 percent of the swamps are classified as tidal swamps
due to the influence of tidal water incursion. Most of the swamp area comprises fragile
deep peats and acid sulphate soils which are less productive and difficult to manage. The
extent of arable swampland has not been assessed in detail but it is estimated that a total
of 7.5 million ha are suitable for the production of rice, other food crops and tree crops
under controlled water management. Recent estimates indicate that about 1.4 million ha
have good potential for rice production. The remaining 6.1 million ha are more suited for
te cultivation of a variety of food crops and tree crop development.
i.6         Over the last 70 years about 2.1 million ha of swamp land have been
developed spontaneously by Banjarese and Buginese farmers of Kalimantan and South
Sulawesi, respectively, and by local people for rice and coconut cultivation. A further 1.2
million ha have been reclaimed through GOI sponsored schemes. Planned swamp
reclamation in Indonesia began on a modest scale in 1939, and there were six small GOI
sponsored schemes in West and South Kalimantan in the 1950s and the early 1960s.
During GOI's first five year development plan (Repelita I: 1969-1973) GOI established
the Project Unit for Tidal Swamp Reclamation in the Ministry of Public Works, and began
reclaiming large areas for the settlement of transmigrants from the densely populated
islands of Java, Bali and Lombok. With the mounting pressure on land on these islands,
the area reclaimed under GOI sponsored schemes increased rapidly from about 35,000 ha
in Repelita I to an average of 280,000 ha in each of the last three Repelita periods
(Repelita II-IV). With an average farm size of 2 ha, it is estimated that the 3.3 million
ha of swampland developed to date support about 1.6 million families or a total of about
8 million people. The remaining 4.2 million ha considered suitable for agriculture have
1I ndmoneia Agrinulur Trmsformaion Chalnges and Opportunities, Septmber 1992. Report
No. 10504-IND.



-3 -
the potential fo; supporting a further 14 million people. However, there are at present no
firm plans to reclaim new swamp areas. Government's plan in the upcoming Repelita VI
(1993-1997) is to Improve and intensify the productive capacity of existing schemes.
GOI's Swamp Development Objectives and Strategy
1.7         Government's basic principles and objectives of swamp development are
given in Regulation No. 27 of May 2, 1991. These are in line with the overall agricultural
sector objectives and include: (a) protecting and conserving swamps; (b) making beneficial
use of swamps to alleviate poverty by providing cultivable land to poor landless people;
(c) reducing environmental problems resulting from overcrowding in the most densely
populated "Inner Islands"; (d) supporting balanced regional development; and (e)
maintaining the balance of the ecosystem.
1.8         Government's strategy for swamp dev4lopment has evolved over tme.
Initially, Jevelopment focussed on swamp reclamation using low cost, simple technology
for the establishment of only essential drainage and basic infrastructure that primarily
supported rice-based subsistence agriculture. The strategy for swamp reclamation changed
during Repelita V to focus on second-stage development activities including upgrading of
hydraulic infrastructure, promoting integrated agricultural development through
introduction of new technological packages, and strengthening of agricultural support
services. Ihe proposed project would upgrade 20 swamp schemnes covering a gross area
of about 78,000 ha and involving about 128,000 people in Jambi and Riau Provinces of
Sumatra and West Kalimantan Province. The project would establish a basis for upgrading
other existing schemes.
Challenges and Issues in Swamp Development
1.9         Although carefuily selected coastal swamp areas have considerable poteial
for rice and other agricultural production, their development presents major chalienges and
problems both from the point of view of ecological preservation of fragile swamp
environments and the development of sustainable agriculture on largely marginal soils.
Swamp soils have severe limitations for sustainable agricultural production, unless very
carefully mnaged. The peat and peaty soils are high in organic matter, low in nutrients
and very acidic, pardcularly under stagnant water conditions. Water control is therefore
extremely critical, both to keep water tables at a controlled depth and to flush out
excessive acidity. Deep peats in excess of 100 cm are generally unsuitable for food crop
cultivation but can be used for tree crops. Deep drainage of peats often leads to serious
subsidence with the peat layer eventually disappearing, exposing unsuitable mineral
subsoils. Salt water intrusion in tidal areas in the dry season gives rise to soils with high
sodium content.
1.10        In its approach to swamp development, Government has tended to perceive
swamp land as a rich, empty and exploitable resource to increase agriculural producdon,
relieve pressure on land in the densely populated areas, and to meet the growing demand
for land for expanding privae sector activities in commercial agricultu. So far, swamp
reclamaton schemes have been developed on an ad hoc basis in the absence of a coherent



-4-
policy for the sustainable management and development of the country's extensive coastl
zone. Settlements in swamp areas, particularly by spontaneous migrants, have been
established without due consideration to the impact on the environment Some of these
settlements are located in ecologically sensitive areas and uncontrolled reclamation of
swamps has had a negative impact on water quality, wildlife, adjacent primary forests and
mangrove areas. As the effects of settlement on fragile coastal ecosystems become beter
known, it is clear that policies, strategies and programs need to be reviewed in context of
their ecological impact.
1.11        The development of the full potendal of coastal zones is very nmch
dependent on mantainng the functional integrity of the natural ecosystem rather tham
converting it to one single alternate land use. Swamps and mangroves perform a nunber
of functions and generate economic benefits that are often not fully understood by planners
and implementers of coastal zone development. The interdependent nature of the different
ecologies in river basins, from uplands to estuaries and beyond is also frequendy
misunderstood or neglected. Until now, no proper assessment of coastal resources has
been made. Planning of development for multiple use (e.g agriculture, aquacut  and
sustainable utilization of forest products) has paid litde attention to retaining ecological
integrity. Planning is mostly on site basis for single purpose use, but it is becoming clear
that the grest, sustainable economic returns will be derived from well managed multiple
use activities.
1.12        The sustainability of agriculture in swamp schemes represents the most
critical challenge that Government has faced in the implementation of its swamps
reclamation program. Government's earlier approach was to provide low cost basic
drainage facilities and social infrastructure for the primary development phase with the
pection at further, sutainable agricultural development would follow. ITis approach
has not been successful except under the most favorable condidons. Many schemes
support settlers only at a subsistence level. Food crops need to be supplemented with tree
crops, cash crops and other high value added activities. Agricultural development on
swamp lands has been impeded by three irr.n factors: First, site selection and scheme
implementation have been deficient resulting from inclusion of unsuitable land. Second,
there are physical constraints, including: (a) lack of control structures in the drainage
systems, particularly those designed to prevent toxicity in the potentially acid sulphate
soils; (b) droughts and floods resulting from a highly variable and unpredictable
enviromnert caused by daily ddes and erradc rainfall patterns; and (c) proliferation of
pests such as piss and rats. These problems are exacerbated by the remoteness of most
of the swamp schemes from markets and supplies, poor physical infrastucre, and limited
access to capital and skilled labor. And Third, there are major weaknesses in organization
and coordination of agriculture and other support services, particularly: (a) deficiencies
in applied agricultral research and absence of a strong extension service to guide the
setters in soil and water management; (b) neglect of O&M of drainage systems; and (c)
inadequate interagency coordinatiorn of development activities. Experience under past and
ongoing Bank-supported projects in the swamps, irrigation and other subsectors shows tha
inadequate coordination among agencies inhibits effective and successful project
implementation. Typically work programs of the different agencies have proceeded on
separate tracks witi no real accountability for performance of the overall project.



- 5 -
Coordination among the different agencies at the central, provincial and local government
level must be improved if the proposed project and future investments in upgrading
existing swamp schemes are to be successful.
1.13        Despite the enviromental, physical and management challenges which
constrain swamps development, swamps can support a wide variety of sustainable
agricultural activities if these constraints are recognized and taken into account at all stages
of development, particularly at the planning stage. In fact swamps enjoy certain advantages
over upland areas: (a) low cost drainage by gravity flow at low tide is often possible; (b)
some of the swamp soils are rich in organic matter and can produce relatively good yields
with low fertilizer applications; (c) swamp lands are flat, allowing rice production in the
wet season and moisture retention for dry season crops; (d) wide waterways crossing the
lowlands offer avenues for economic transportation; and (e) swamp lands are usually
uninhabited before drainage, and therefore relatively free of land claims which often hinder
large scale development elsewhere.
Institutional Framework
1.14        Responsibility for swamp development primarily lies with tmree GOI
agencies: (a) the Ministry of Public Works (A4PW) is responsible for the development of
drainage systems and establishment of related physical infrastructure; (b) the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) for agncultural development activites; and (c) the National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) for the overall planning and approval of
budgets for swamp development programs. With priority being given to the upgrading of
existing swamp schemes rather than opening new areas for resettlement of tanmgrt
(para. 1.6), the role of the Ministry of Transmigration in swamp development programs
is diminishing and is currently limited to the consolidation of settlements on existing
schemes.
1.15        Within MPW, the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
(DGWRD) through the Directorate of Swamps (DOS), is responsible for the planning,
design and construction of drainage systems and other works such as roads and jeties.
The DOS is represented at the Provincial level by the Tidal Land Irrgation Project
(Proyek Pengairan Pasang Surut or P3S).
1.16        Within MOA, at the national level, the Directorates of the Directorate
General of Food Crops and Horticulture (DGFCH), coordinated by the Directorate of Land
Rehabilitation and Development (DLRD) are responsible for agricultural extension and
development in conjunction with the Agency for Agricultural Education and Training
(AAEI). The Directorate General of Estates (DGE) is responsible for tre crops. The
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) is responsible for research.
Swamps research is conducted at two main stations, Karang Agung in Sumatra and
Banjarbaru in South Kalimantan, and a number of smaller research farms and field sites.
Swamps research has been supported under the Bank-assisted Swamps Reclamation II
Project (Loan 2431-IND). Research activities are generally well focussed and of a
satisfactory standard but need to be expanded to additional areas. The proposed project



-6-
would provide continued support to the main research stations and would also assit in
establishing facilities for fileld research in the prcject area.
1.17        At the provincial level, the Provincial Agricultural Services (PRAS) has
responsibility for the various agricultural activities through subservice units representfig
the national entities. At the field level, agricultural extension staff (PPL) who provide
extension services to the famers are responsible to the Bupati (District Admitr) but
receive technical guidance from MOA. Technical support is provided by subject matter
specialists (PPS) based at provincial or district level. GOI is planning to reorganize and
revitalize the extension service in response to changing demands of the agriculture sector.
While the mmnbers of field extension staff in the proposed project area are generally
adequate, many staff have only recently been appointed and lack experience. There Is also
lack of senior extension staff, especially in Riau and West KaHmantan, as well as
naequate transport, equipment, and operating funds. The proposed project would address
these shortcomings.



-7 -
20 BANK INVOLVENMM AND LESSONS LEARNED
Experience in Swamp Development
2.1         Over the years te Bank has supported many irrigation, drainage and flood
control development projects in East and South Asia, and also rice production on swamp
schemes in Sierra Leone, Guinea, Liberia and Mexico. However, the Bank's pecific
experience with tropical tidal swamps development is limited to Indonesia. As tropical
peat swamps in Indonesia are quite unique (para. 1.5), broad global experience in
developing swamp3, particularly in temperate climates cannot be directly related to
Indonesian conditions.
2.2         Bank assistance for swamp reclamation in Indonesia began in 1975 with a
review of the hydrological and pedological aspects of developing tidal swamp lands and
the definition of criteria for the selection of suitable areas for development. In 1976 Xt
Bank provided assistance for surveys and studies of specific projects in South Sumatr and
Jambi. This was followed in 1979 by Bank fimancing of the detailed design of the Kang
Agung scheme and feasibility studies to develop about 350,000 ha in South Sumata and
Kalimantan. Since then the Bank has supported the implementation of two swamp
reclamation projects.
2.3         Swamps Redam     I Project (Swamps 1), supported by a Bank loan of
US$22.0 million equivalent (Loan 1958-IND), was approved in 1981 and implemented
over a six year period. The Loan was closed in 1987, one year behind the original
schedule.Z/ Swamps I provided for drainage, land clearing, settler housing and public
factes, transport and setlement of transmigrant farmers (3,200 families),  food
subsistence and other services to the settlers in the inidal settlement period, project
monitoring, and a series of studies. Due to difficult soils, high labor requirements for land
preparaion, and poor supportng services, agricultural development proceeded slower hn
expected. The harvested crop area at project closing was only 30 percent of at
anticipated at appraisal. Although the availability of family labor limits the area developed
for cultivation, it was anticipated that by 1993 the harvested area would be about 75
percert of the appraisal estmate and that yields and incomes would gradually climb to
those assumed at appraisal.
2.4         Project results showed clearly that investments in infastructure must be
accomnpanied by support for agricultural development to ensure realization of the inteded
21 Prforme Audit Rat No. 11431, OED, Daeember 1S, 1992.



- 8 -
agricultural production. It also became clear that some form of unified management
structure is necessary and that special provisions must be made for agricultural extension.
The original concept that basic drainage, housing, community facilities and infrastructure
and some land clearing would suffice for critical settlement, and that the settler would
gradually develop the whole allocated area and install further drainage control, did not
work. There were hidden costs, over and above those provided for in the project, which
could not be met by the farmers. Therefore, the settlers were unable to develop their
holdings as intended. Phased implementation, emphasizing pest control, potable water
su,pply, and agricultural research and development must also be given due inportance.
2.5         Swamps Reclamation II Project (Swamps II), supported by a Bank loan
(Loan 2431-IND) of US$65.0 million equivalent, has been implemented since 1984. The
loan was closed on December 31, 1993. The project financed the reclamation and
development of about 30,000 ha swamp land in South Sumatra and settement of about
10,800 families. It comprised the entire primary and secondary drainage infrastructure,
60 percent of tertiaries, houses and settlement, studies for future swamp reclamation
schemes, and upgrading of older schemes.
2.6         Swamps II was designed and implemented before the results and lessons of
Swamps I were fully known. However, project formulation reflects some of the
experience gained in the first project in that its thrust is on (a) improving the quality of
program preparation (site selection and design); (b) improving the implementation
standards; and (c) providing potable water facilities and agricultural support services. In
addition, Swamps II has provided one consolidated 1.75 ha farm plot per family (instead
of two smaller separate plots given under earlier GOI schemes), to facilitate faster land
development. The project also has made provisions to: (a) encourage the farmers to
cooperate in clearing and developing their entire farm; (b) train site managers in
construction supervision and management; and (c) support a three-year time slice of a
swamps research and development program.
2.7         Due to the initial delays in implementation, the project was reformulated to:
(a) provide enhanced Bank support for settlement and agricultural components; (b) shift
the responsibility for implementation coordination from the Ministry of Transmigraton to
BAPPEDA of South Sumatra; and (c) increase the allocations for consultant services,
mainly for preparing the present project and for construction supervision of transmigration
components. Although agricultural extension and support services have improved, the
agricultural benefits are lagging behind the appraisal targets, as in the previous project.
Lessons Leaned from Previous Projects
2.8         The main lesson learned from Swamps I and II is that more time and better
integrated approaches are needed than originally assumed in order to convert swamp areas
into fully developed agricultural land. Both projects have been fairly successful in
providing a basic livelihood to poor people from other parts of Indonesia. But the low re-
esthnated Economic Rates of Return of 6 percent and 2 percent for Swamps I and II,
respectively, reflect the slow progress made by the farmers in clearing the land, planing
their crops, controlling the water, coping with pests, etc. There clearly is scope for



-9 -
improvement of the settlers' living conditions and agricultural practices through a proper
combination of further investments in infrastructure and agricultural support activities to
the settlers.
2.9         Other lessons learned concern the need for: (a) careful monitoring of
potentially adverse effects on the environment (e.g., attacks by pests and diseases) and the
effectiveness of proposed mitigatory measures; (b) preparation of detailed guidelines for
prequalification of tenderers in order to make the selection process more transparent and
reduce the risk of implementation delays; (c) better coordination of activities by the various
agencies; and (d) more effective supervision of implementation.
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
2.10        The key objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance strategy for Indonesia
are: (a) maitaining economic growth with macroeconomic stability; (b) reducing poverty
and enhancing human resource development; (c) enhancing private sector development and
competitiveness; (d) improving public sector management; and (e) improving
environmental management. Agriculture remains central to the Government's growth and
poverty reduction strategy, as poverty is still heavily concentrated in agriculture,
particularly the non-irrigated areas such as swamps and uplands. Accordingly, investment
in agriculture contines to be important to the Bank's assistance strategy in ndonesia,
given the sector's role in employment generation, poverty reduction, sustainable natural
resource management, and protection of the environment.
2.11        The Bank supports Government's efforts to enhance the potential of existing
swamp schemes in order to improve incomes and social welfare of existig poor farm
families. The proposed project is fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy discussed by fte Board on April 12, 1994. The project would support
Government's objectives in the agricultural sector: sustained growth, reduced rural
poverty, and more balanced regional growth. Based on the experience gained under the
previous Bank-assisted swamp projects, the Bank is well placed to assist Government in
designing and implementing programs for the sustainable development of existing swanp
schemes. Bank support would also foster sound environmental practices in swamp
development and would assist the provincial governments of Jambi, Riau and West
Ealimantan in formulating policies and actions to ensure efficient management and
sustainable development of their coastal zones.



- 10-
3. TE PlROJEICT
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
3.1         Project Locaton. The proposed project would be located in Jambi and
Riau Provinces of Sumatra and West Kalimantan Province of Kalimntan, and cover a
gross area of about 78,000 ha (Annex 1). In Jambi, the project comprises five schemes
with a gross area of about 26,000 ha located in Kabupaten Tanjung Kabung, some 80 km
northeast of Jambi city. In Riau, the project would cover two geographically disdnct
areas: (a) the Siak subproject in Kabupaten Bengkalis some 90 kn north of Peaar
comprising one scheme with a gross area of about 8,000 ha; and (b) the Indragiri
subproject in Kabupaten Indragiri Hilir about 200 km southeast of Pekanbaru, with three
schumes anei a gross area of about 11,000 ha. In West Kalimantan, the project would
comprise eleven schemes covering a total gross area of about 33,000 ha in Kabupaten
Pontianak. Within the project area about 46,000 ha land is now cultivated and a furtier
9,000 ha could be brought under cultivation with the improvements provided for under the
project. The total potential cultivable area in the twenty project schemes is about
55,000 ha. Rice-based cropping systems, comprising pure stand rice areas and mixed
rice/coconut fields, account for more than 90 percent of agricultural land in the scheme
areas. The population in the selected schemes is estimated (1990 census) at about 27,500
households (128,000 people) of whom 9,100 are in Jambi, 5,200 in Riau and 13,000 In
West Kaemantan  In addition some 4,500 farm households, living in the finge areas of
the selected shemes, would participate in the project's coconut development component.
The large majority of the people are living at subsistence level, and there is a strong
demand for better water control and improved living conditions.
3.2         Climate and Soils. Eighteen of the twenty project schemes are located in
tidal swamp areas; the other two are in inland swamps in West Kalimantan. All scbemes
are accessed through navigable rivers or drainage channels while some schemes in West
Kalimantan are also accessible by road. The climte is classified as tropical rain forest
climate, characterized by high temperatures, relative humidity and rainll. Average
annual rainfall ranges from 2,000 mm in lambi and Riau to about 3,000 mm in West
Kalimantan. The Jambi and Riau schemes have a bimodal rainfall pattern with maxima
in November/December (20 - 400 mm/month) and in April (250 mm/month) and minima
in February (90 mm/month) and August (110 mm/month). The higher rainfall in West
Kalimantn has a pronounced maximum in November (400 mm/month) and mininum in
August (190 mm/month). Most schemes lie in flat, poorly drained zones ht are pary
immdated during the rainy eason by high tides or floods in the adjacent rivers or creeks.
In spite of flood protecdon afforded by existing dikes in some of the schemes, fooding



- 11 -
remains a considerable problem in most of the others. Recent marine or fluvio-marine
clays are dominant soils types overlain by peat layers of various depth and at various
stages of decomposition. The soils of the project areas can be broadly classified as almost
50 percent swamp mineral and the remainder as a mixture of peat and peaty mineral soils.
Soils in the Jambi schemes are mostly good to moderately suitable for rice. Soils in the
Siak area of Riau Province are well drained and suitable for most crops. In West
Kaliman  the inland swamp schemes are mostly classified as moderately suited for rice.
3.3         Exisng Infrastructure. Existing drainage infrastructure in the project
schemes consists of navigation channels, primary and secondary drainage canals, and field
drains. Almost all schemes are accessed through rivers or navigation channels which are
connected to the drainage networks. In some of the schemes part of the secondary canals
are equipped wiff timber stoplog structures. These provide a rudimentary control on the
entry of tidal fresh water, or an exit to the saline or acid drainage affluent. More
sophisticatd structures like vertical sluice gates or flap gates exist on some secondary or
primary canals of a few schemes but still are an exception. Most of the gated structures
and some of the stoplog structures are not in working order because of poor maintenance
or lack of technical guidance.
D. Panoacr CONCEPr AND ORJECiVES
3.4         Concept. Te project would support intersectoral activities designed to
upgrade the level of agricultural production services in the selected schemes and threby
the people's standard of living. First, water management would be improved though the
construction of new and rehabilitation of existing water control structures. These works
would reduce flood damage, improve drainage, facilitate flushing of toxic chemicals, and
help control acidity in the scheme areas. Also, the project would encourage the
introduction of improved operation and maintenance (O&M) practices and procedures for
drainage networks and water control structures by improving on-farm water management
practices and organization. Second, specific agricultural research and extensionprograms,
with associated seed and pest control programs and the provision of a revolving fund for
seasonal inputS, would help the farmers take advantage of the physical improvements in
the selected swamp schemes. These programs would, amongst others, aim at introducing
higher yielding crop varieties, more intensive cultural practices, and balanced use of
fertilizer and soil amendments. Third, the cultivation of coconuts would not only be
promoted inside the scheme areas, but also in suitable adjacent areas with a view to create
economic production units and also to provide an opportunity to the original inhabitants
of the area to share in the benefits of swamps scheme development. Fourth, road and
water transport communications would be improved and potable water faciLities would be
provided to all households in the scheme areas. Implemenation of the above actions
would be accompanied by a series of activities to integrate conservation with development
activities and to maintain the ecological balance in the coastal swamp areas.
3.5         Objectives. The project has two main objectves. First, it would reduce
poverty in the selected swamp schemes through further development of their agrcultural



- 12-
potential. Second, the project would assist GOI in its management of part of the coastal
zones and help ensure sound environmental practices in swamp development.
C. PROJECr SCOPE
3.6         The proposed project would be implemented over a six year period (1994-
2000) in about twenty existing swamp schemes, covering a potential net cultivable area of
about 55,000 ha, in Jambi, Riau and West Kalimantan Provinces (see Annex 1 and Maps
24868 - 24872). In order to qualify for financing under the project, the schemes would
have to meet selection criteria that emphasize technical, environmental and economic
viability (Annex 1). An asswuww to that effect has been obtained from GOI during
negotiations. The project would include the following main components: (a) rehabilittion
of exisig and construction of new water control structures, and support for bettr water
management practices, including on-farm water management; (b) promotion of food crop
production through support for research and extension with associated provision of seeds,
peSt control and seasonal inputs; (c) development of tree crops, including land tling and
certification, in an area of about 12,500 ha; (d) improvement of rural infrastructure
through rehabilitation of existing or construction of new roads, bridges and jeties, and
provision of potable water facilities; and (e) improvement of coastal zone land use
management in the three provinces, including the preparation of an Environmental Profile
for West Kaliantan and support for the development of the Berbak National Park Buffer
Zone in Jambi. Traning and technical assistance would also be provided to assist GOI
agencies with the implementation of the proposed project.
D. DrAuI) PROJE   FEATURE
Water Control Infrastructure
3.7        Infrastructure. The project would rehabilitate existing and construct new
drainage infrastucture in the selected schemes with a view to provide adequae flood
protction, drainage relief, and water level control capability for promoting further
agricultral development in the schemes. Project works would include: (a) strengthening
and raising of existing dikes to provide adequate flood protection; (b) construction of new
dikes; (c) improving te drainage capacity of canals where it is insufficient or has been
impaired by vegetal clogging; (d) rehabilitation of existing water control strucures, where
feasible; and (e) construction of new stoplogs, sluice gates, and flap gate struct. I is
esmated that total project earthworks would be about 5.5 million m3, consitng of about
1.9 million e3 in dikes, and about 3.6 million in in chamels. About 1,200 structures
would be constructed on secondary and primary canals. Ihe projet would also
supplement the existng hydrological data collection network in the scheme areas by
providing rainfall recording, and automatic water level recording equipment and sions.
Further details are given in Annex 2.
3.8        During the appraisal of the project it was found that several of the schemes,
as proposed, had low economic rates of return (see also Chapter 7). One of the reasons



- 13 -
for the low ERRs is a tendency among agency personnel and consultants to over-design
the structures. During the first project year all proposed designs of the works for future
years would be reviewed in order to ensure their economic justification. The scheme
selection criteria specify that the average cost cf the civil works for drainage, irrigation
and flood control would not exceed Rp 1.5 million (US$723 equivalent) per cultivable ha
for each individual scheme, unless the ERR of the direct investments for those works is
at least 12 percent (Annex 1).
3.9         Operation and Maintenance. The proposed project would support the
strengthening and improvement of O&M of existing, rehabilitated and new drainage
infrastructure. An optimum level of operation, including the removal, supply and
circulation of water, would help maximize crop production in the project areas. Regular
and periodic maintenance programs would be developed to keep the system facilities in
good working condition. Specifically, the project would support: (a) partial financing of
incremental O&M costs after completion of construction; (b) the provision of equipment
and transport; (c) the formation of water users associations (WUA) to facilitate O&M of
tertiary canals and on-farm water management; and (d) training of PWRS and PRAS staff
and WUA members in the preparation and implementation of water management plms.
Further details are given in Annex 3.
Food Crop Production
3.10        To take advantage of the improved water control, the project would
strengthen agricultural support services, including adaptive research, exension, the
establishment of tertiary level hydraulic management units, improved seed production and
distribution, introduction of draft animals or small hand tractors to overcome current
shortages of power, training of staff and farmers, and the provision of small one-time
grants for seasonal inputs to be managed as a revolving fund through farmers' groups.
Special training in agro-processing techniques would be provided to women to faclitate
their involvement in income generation arising from increased food crop production. The
project would assist in the formation of farmers groups for the purpose of improved water
and soil management, and rat and pig control, and would also organize contract growers
for improved seed production. The project would support pilot efforts to introduce
plantings of tree crops and timber species in previously cleared and now abandoned or
marginal areas as a means of restoring ecological balance and providing additional income
to local communities.
3.11        Adaptive Research. The project would support the ongoing swamps
research program at Karang Agung and would extend field level research into the project
area in ten selected farmiing systems technology adaptation (FSTA) sites. Research in
Karang Agung would concentrate on technology component research on acid sulphate soils,
especially that related to soil and water management, changes of soil charaistics,
environmental impacts, and improvement of the crop and animal management in integrated
farming systems. Component research would include varietal improvement, fertilizer use,
livestock/fish culture, and modification and utilization of simple farm machbiery and
equipment. Field level research would entail: (a) land characterization of the project areas
generally, and more detailed site characterization of the ten research and thirty intensive



- 14 -
tertiary unit locations. At selected FSTA sites, the research would include aquaculture and
at others an assessment of the potential for tractor hire service on a sustaining basis in a
program involving farmer groups, extension workers, cooperatives, artisans and private
entrepreneurs. Project financing for research, would include: (a) equipment, materials
and transport, and operational costs for ongoing swamp research at Karang Agung research
station and field research sites; and (b) the provision of facilities for adaptive and
developmental research at various field research sites (see Annex 5 for further details).
3.12        Agricultural Extension and Development. Extension activities under the
project also would be considerably intensified under the responsibility of PRAS with
technical support and supervision from the various Directorates within DGFCH and DGE
staff. Twelve of the existing RECs and associated staff accommodation would be
rehabilitated. Thirty tertiary hydraulic management units would be set up along the same
lines as the FSTA units implemented by AARD for demonstrating and extending improved
technology and introducing new technology developed by research. Using the experience
and demonstration effect of these tertiary hydraulic units, the program would be extended
to other tertiary units covering about 600 farmer groups and about 30,000 farmers. All
farmers would receive a one time grant through their farmer groups during the project
period in the form of a complete input package for one ha for one season. After the
harvest the farmers would deposit the value of the input package in a revolving fund. The
revolving funds would be managed by the farmer groups and used to purchase inputs for
members during following crop seasons. With the help of the revolving funds the area
coverage of improved farming practices would expand to at least 45,000 ha, and possibly
to the full 55,000 ha of cultivated land in the twenty project schemes. An assurance has
been obtained from Government during negotiations that in all scheme areas farmer groups
would be formed, and the ability of those groups to manage a revolving fund ascertained,
before the input packages are made available to the farmers in those areas.
3.13        In addition to providing extension workers with the required training,
supervision and specialist support, the project would provide equipment, materials and
operating funds for establishing the tertiary hydraulic management units, conducting
meetings, workshops, training programs, field days and other extension activities; as well
as transport, travel and associated expenses for extension workers, trainers, supervising
staff from provincial and national levels, and farmers. Supporting programs to be financed
under the project would include equipment and operational costs for efficient seed
production and distribution, funds for pest control programs and the procurement of inputs,
and the establishment of a revolving fund for the purchase of inputs by resource poor
farmers (further details are given in Annex 4).
Tree Crop Development
3.14        About 12,500 ha of hybrid coconuts would be planted in pure stands on
suitable land under the proposed project. Of the total of 12,500 ha, about 4,200 ha would
be witin the project schemes and 8,300 ha in land adjoining the schemes. About 8,000
smallholders would be involved. An assurance has been obtained from GOI during
negotiations that agreed criteria (Annex 6, Attachment 1) for screening participants would
be followed, and a record kept of the screening process of the selected participarts.



- 15 -
3.15        To ensure the establishment of "economic units" for collection, processing
and marketing of coconuts, DGE would be responsible for implementing the component
through project management units (PMU) which would assist the farmers with the
establishment of their plantations. An assurance has been obtained from GOI at
negotiations that PMUs would be established in the project areas. In general, the areas
chosen for coconut planting would be unsuitable for rice production due to the depth of
peat.  The areas would be segregated from rice land to permit appropriate water
management for the respective crops.  Farmers would be supplied with selected
polybagged seedlings, produced in project nurseries, or by qualified private contractors,
and would receive fertilizers and other necessary inputs, as well as advice from specialized
extension staff. The hybrids would be selected to provide good yield potential and
resistance to Phytophtora disease. Smallholders would receive a grant to cover all
expenditures for the first year's establishment of the trees. They would be responsible for
the maintenance of the stand from the second year onwards until bearing, using credit if
necessary (see para. 4.4). Smallholders in mixed cropping areas would also be provided
with extension and seed nuts of high yielding hybrid varieties. To enhance their income
generation capacity, women would be trained by PMUs in the manufacture of coconut
sugar and oil. The project would finance incremental staff. civil works, vehicles and
transport costs, equipment and materials, training and TA, and operational costs ( see
Annex 6 for fiurther details).
LAnd Titing
3.16        Of the total proposed area of 12,500 ha of coconut development, about
4,200 ha would be in schemes settled by transmigrant families (about 3,200) about 10-15
years ago and the rest would comprise land occupied by about 4,700 original settlers on
the fringe of the transmigration settlements. Project assistance would be provided for
settlers on the swamp schemes as well as for original settlers whose farms are adjacent to
the transmigration settlements (see para 3.14). Most transmigrant families on the swamp
schemes already have titles (hak milik) to their plots of land, but the majority of the
farmers in the fringe areas do not. The project would therefore provide financing for land
titling activities, including cadastral and land use surveys and certification. These activities
would be carried out by the National Land Agency (BPN) in accordance with the phasing
of the coconut planting program. For the sake of efficiency and cost-effectiveness,
neighboring fanners not participating in the coconut planting scheme would also receive
titles. An assurance has been obtained from GOI during negotiations that the cadastral
and land use surveys would be completed during the year prior to planting, and the titles
issued to the participating coconut growers during the year of planting. Completion of the
previous year's land titling program would be a condton of disbursement during the
following year against expenditures on agricultural labor for the coconut planting program.
Rural Infrastructe
3.17        Rural Roads and Navigation Facilities. The existing rural road network,
comprising earth, paved or asphalted single lane roads or motorcycle tracks, and river
navigation facilities, mainly jetties, in and around the scheme areas would be improved
under the project so that increased traffic, likely to be generated after the project, could



- 16 -
be accommodated. The road construction program would be more extensive in West
Kalimantan because of the large number of widely separated schemes and the need to
interconnect them. The rural roads component would consist of: (a) rehabilitation and
asphalting of 25 kn of existing roads in Jambi (15 kn) and Riau (10 kn); and
(b) construction of a total of 126 km of roads in Riau and West Kalimantan. The new
construction would consist of 26 km of asphalt roads in Riau and 96 km of asphalt roads
and 4 km of earth roads in West Kalimantan. Rehabilitation or reconstruction of several
bridges on these roads is also included in the project. Some navigation canals would be
cleared of clogging vcgetation and silt. Four jetties in West Kalimantan would be repaired
and two jetties in Riau and West Kalimantan would be extended. One collapsed jetty in
Jambi would be reconstructed and three new small jetties (one in each province) would be
constructed. Guidelines for the construction of the roads would be prepared by DGWRD
in consultation with Bina Marga and sent to the Bank for comment by March 31, 1995.
An assurance to that effect has been obtained from GOI during negotiations. In the
preparation of these guidelines there will be a special fccus on miniizing the
environmental risks (see Annex 2 for further details).
3.18        Potable Water Supply. The project would provide potable water supply
systems to about 27,270 individual households and about 55 village centers. The capacity
of the systems would be based on ten liters per capita per day required for drinking and
cooking only; for other domestic requirements river and canal water would be used. The
proposed household water supply systems would consist mainly of rainwater storage tanks
of about 2.5 m3 capacity made of ferrocement or other suitable material, with roof gutters
and down spouts. In areas with suitable water from canals and rivers, an alternative
solution would be to use a simple individual water treatment system made of cheap local
maerials. in addition to the arrangements for individual households, the project would
provide potable water at critical locations, such as village centers, health clinics and
schools. This would ensure normal year-round supply and provide for water supply in the
surrounding areas in case of extreme drought. Pending the outcome of geohydrological
investigations, both groundwater and surface water would be considered as sources of
supply. Deep tubewells and water treatment plants would be planned accordingly. In
West Kalimantan Province no suitable water resources are available for this purpose, and
here the project scope would be limited to the rainwater option only. The project would
support the training of local technicians. The approach will be community based as under
the Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project (WSSLIC, Loan
3629-IND), based on a village action plan which will specify responsibilities for planning,
design, implementation and O&M. The plans would provide for the beneficiaries to
contribute at least 10 percent of the value of the facilities in the form of labor, or any
other mutually agreeable form of contribution, and to fully cover the O&M costs of the
systems to ensure their sustainable use; these assurances have been obtalned from GOI
during negotiations (see Annex 7 for more details).
Coastal Zone Land Use Mlanagement
3.19        The project would support coastal zone management activities in two
provinces. InJambi Province, ongoing coastal zone land use management activities would
be supported by expanding an existing GIS to create a natral resource database which



- 17 -
would be used to identify ecologically important areas for protection and/or restoration and
to generate a spatial plan based on development potential. Environmentally sensitive areas
in the coastal zone would be identified and incorrorated in the planning process by
delineating protection zones and developing manage,ment guidelines for these and adjacent
areas.
3.20        Also in Jamnbi Province, the project would strengthen management of Berbak
National Park and promote compatible land uses in adjacent areas. First, the project
would strengthen Park management through activities such as: (a) surveying and marking
of Park boundaries; (b) upgrading office and transport facilities in the Provincial National
Parks Service (SSKSDA); (c) staff development and training including patrolling
techniques, wildlife observation, record-keeping, etc.; and (d) completion of the Berbak
National Park Management Plan. Second, the project would promote socio-economic
development in areas adjacent to the Park by undertaking a series of activities which would
be identified through a community consultation process in villages surrounding the Park,
including: (a) Park boundary marking using plants which villagers would otherwise poach
from the Park; (b) rehabilitation of coastal land by planting mangroves; (c) agricultural
development, mainly horticulture; and (d) land title/certification in about 6,000 ha. of land
around the Park to increase security of tenure. The project would finance technical
assistance, civil works construction, and procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials.
3.21        In the Province of West Kalbmantan the project would support the
preparation of an Environmental Profile covering all of the coastal wetlands. The Profile
would be a comprehensive account of physical/natural, environmental and relevant socio-
economic conditions to provide a basis for future planning (a similar profile was prepared
for Jambi Province in 1990, with the assistance of the Asian Wetland Bureau, and another
one is currently being prepared for Riau with UNDP assistance). In addition, inter-
departmental coordination and implementing committees would be established in the
province to promote better information exchanges between provincial agencies. Training
programs on integrated environmental planning also would be provided (see Annex 8 for
further details).
Technical Assistance
3.22        Consultants would be employed to assist the central and provincial
government agencies with planning, detailed design, and implementation of the project.
Total requirements are estimated at 1,331 person-months (pm), of which 47 percent for
institutional capacity building, 50 percent for implementation support, and 3 percent for
studies. Five main contracts are envisaged: (a) for work planning, design, construction
supervision, and coordination and monitoring of drainage and rural infrastructure
(DGWRD); (b) for community and agriculture development (DGFCH); (c) for agricultural
research (AARD); (d) for Berbak National Park (DGPHPA); and (e) for preparation of an
Environmental Profile for West Kalimantan (DGPHPA). Person-months for these
consultancies are sunumarized in Table 3.1 below, and further details are given in Table 1
of Annex 9. In order to expedite the start of project activities after project approval, all
consultants would be employed by January 15, 1995. An assurance to this effect has been
obtained from GOI during negotiations. The project would also provide for studies for the



- 18 -
preparation of proposed future projects in swamp development and of options for
introduction of a drainage fee.
Table 3.1: TI NCAL ASSISTANCE REQuIREmENIS
(in person-months)
Inter-
C.onsultancy             Agency     national    National    Total
Planning, Design, Construction
Supervision, Coordination
and Monitoring            DGWRD         171         685        856
Community and Agriculture
Development               DGFCH          36         223        259
Agricultural Research      AARD            6         72          78
Berbak National Park       DGPHPA         56         46         102
Environmental Profile      DGPHPA         12         24          36
Total                                  281       1,050      1,331
E. STAus OF PRPARATION AD IMLEmENTATION SCHEuLE
3.23        Status of Preparation. The project has been prepared by the line agencies
at the national level in consultation with the provinces and with assistance of consultants
employed by DGWRD. The preparation report was submitted in December 1991. During
preappraisal the scope of the project was reduced substantially from 38 schemes proposed
in the preparation report to about 20 schemes. The deleted schemes were considered not
feasible on technical and/or economic grounds. Also, the environmental assessment of the
project fell short of requirements. Following discussions between the Bank and GOI
during pre-appraisal, an expanded and improved environmental assessment, together with
an environmental management plan, was submitted in December 1992. Additional
consulants inputs were provided from April through August 1993 in order to review the
hydraulic designs for the first four schemes and to assist GOI with the preparation of the
1994/95 work program.
3.24        Implemetaon Schedule. Project implementation is scheduled to start in
October 1995 and would be completed in March 2000. All civil works for drainage, roads
and navigation facilities would be completed by March 1998, leaving a full two-year
period until March 2000 to continue project activities aimed at introducing better water
management practices and intensifying the production of food crops. Similarly, the
planting of tree crops would be completed during the first four project years and follow-up



1 19 -
support for the new plantings would be available during the remaining two project years.
Installation of potable water supply systems would start in July 1995, following one year
of tesdng, and continue until the end of the project period. Support for the Berbak
National Park would be provided from 1995/96 for four years. The Environmental Profile
for West Kaliinmtan would be prepared by September 1995. The project implementation
schedule is attached at Annex 14.
F. ENvIRONMENTAL ASPECrs
3.25        Environmental Impact Assessment. The project as originally proposed
was the subject of a comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) which was
prepared on behalf of DOS by the Asian Wetland Bureau (AWB), a leading authority on
Indonesian swamp ecology. The EIA identified a range of key environmental management
issues, the most significant of which related to the potentially deleterious short term effects
of exposure of potential acid sulphate soils (PASS) due to poorly planed or executed civil
works. This potential problem has been reduced significantly following the decision to
delete schemes with excessive PASS and to reduce the scope of civil works in te
renaining schemes.
3.26        Most of the other issues identified by AWB are amenable to control through
monitoring and management, particularly during construction. A recurring problem with
all agriculural developments in remote areas is the tendency for scheme dwellers to use
surrounding forests to collect firewood. AWB identified this as a problem for the ISDP
schemes and suggested establishment of on-scheme woodlots as a possible solution. The
problem would be addressed by the PRAS in all three provinces (assisted by the PHPA),
through the establishment for field trials of firewood species on abandoned land within
scheme boundaries.
3.27        During preparation of the EIA, two separate local consultation programs
were undertaken (one by the project preparation consultants and one by AWB) to gather
information on problems being experienced by scheme inhabitants, environmental issues
as seen from the inhabitants point of view, and wildlife sightings. Verbatim transcripts
of the first round of consultations were provided to the Bank and the results of the second
round are referenced frequently in the EIA report. An Indonesian language version of the
EA Summary has been prepared and copies circulated to provincial and relevant district
offices of DGWRD. Copies also have been made available to the public.
3.28        The EIA and the associated public consultation activities were in full
compliance with the Bank's requirements. Simultaneously, the EIA has been reviewed by
the AMDAL Technical Team of the Ministry of Public Works. The AMDAL Central
Commission of the Ministry has approved the project in July 1993.
3.29        Environmental Monitoring and Management.  A  comprehensive
environmental monitoring and management plan has been prepared covering developments
in al three provinces. The plans are designed to maximize utilization of existig staff
resources and tchnical capabilities within provincial sectoral agencies and environmental



- 20 -
studies centers. lhe project provides for employment of a local environmenal consultant
for one year to: (a) implement the environmental management and monitoring plan, dated
December 21, 1992; (b) establish liaison between the project and relevant provincial
agencies and DGWRD's subdirectorate of Inter-Sectoral Coordination on Environmental
Management Mate; (c) ensure that environmental protection measures are included in
construction contract documentation as required and that compliance monitoring procedures
are observed; (d) contract (through DOS) the services of environmental study centers
and/or NGOs to undertake specific monitoring activities; and (e) agree and intitute
appropriate envirornental monitoring procedures with relevant BAPPEDAs and sectoral
agencies.



- 21 -
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Projec Costs
4.1             Total project cost including contingencies is estimated at US$106.0 millon
of which US$27.5 million would be foreign exchange and US$7.1 million duties and taxes.
Base costs are expressed in June 1993 values.  Physical coningencies are esdmaed at
15 percent for civil works  and  10 percent for equipment and  materials.   Price
contingencies are based on an estmated annual local inflation rate of 5.5 percent and a
foreign inflation rate of 2.5 percent from FY94. No price contingency allowance has been
added to cover the eventual increase in fertlizer prices due to the anticipated phasig out
of ferdlizer subsidies during the project period. Project cost is summarized in Table 4.1
below and detiled in Annex 10.
Table 4.1: PfoJECT Cosr SUMMARY
%  S%TOW
R illion                 USS million       ForPe     am
m                             La    FPoi        Total   Locad    Foin   Total  Baba     Ce
A. Waru Coasd Inhafiasucu    45,016   22,494   67,S10   21.4      10.7    32.1       33      37
B. FoWodCrop Poducdto        20,428    2,690   23,118    9.7       13      11.0      12      13
C. Agdciodml ied Rlsueub      5,987      794    6,781    2.8      0.4      32        12      4
D. Tern. Crop Dvdopdnm
Cocona3t Handzg           29,.05    S,S43   34,598   13.8       2.6     16.4      16      19
LeAnd ldlqg                1,767      422    2,189    0.8      O0.       1.0      19       1
Subtotd                   30,R22    5,965   36,787   14A        2.8    17.4       16      26
Roes adm EBdges            8,976    6,066   15,042    4.3       2.9      7.2      40       8
Potbe Waer Supply         12,690    4,215   16,90S    6.0       2.0      8.0      2S       9
Subtotd                   21,666   10,281   31,947   103        4.9    15.2       32      17
P. Camtl 2.. Mmagm.t
BDe.kPakand Bufer Zoos    3,240    2,463    5,703    1.5        1.2      2.7      43       3
Ivirronm Isa Pcofile         373      430      803    0.2       0.2      0.4      S4       1
Subioes                    4,613    2,893    6,506    1.7       L4       3.1      44       4
0. Projet ManageMntm          4,879    3,543    8,422    2.3       1.7     4.0       42       5
TOW Basdue C#dus            132,411   48,660  181,071   62.8     23.2    86.0        27    100
lhysal Cotdoiniesi        10,126    4,647   14,773    4.8       2.2      7.0      31       8
Psie Conkingencie         22,94S    4,342   27.287   10.9       2.1     13.0      16      15
Toel Ptojecd Cotsh         165,482   57,649  223,131   78.5     275    106.0        26    123



- 22 -
Financing Plan
4.2         The proposed Bank loan of US$65.0 million equivalent would finance about
61 percent of total project cost, or 69 percent of project cost exclusive of taxes and duties
and vehicles, and fertilizers which would be purchased by GOI. GOI would finance about
US$35.8 million equivalent (34 percent of project cost) and the balance of US$5.2 million
equivalent (5 percent of project cost) would be fnanced by the beneficiaries contributing
their labor for tree crop planting and potable water supply components. The project
financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2 below and detailed in Annex 11.
Table 4.2: PRoJECT FINANcING PLAN
Local     Foreign       Total
Funding Source       Cost        Cost         Cost        Percentage
US$ million
Beneficiaries          5.2          -          5.2            5%
Government            33.5        2.3          35.8          34%
Bank                  39.8       25.2          65.0          61 %La
Total                 78.5       27.5         106.0         100%
La   About 69 percent of project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties and vehicles and
fertilizers which GOI would finance.
Fnanbdng of Proposed Development Activities
4.3         Food Crops. As the majority of prospective participating farmers are poor,
and in view of the difficulties experienced in previous operations in establishing a feasible
mechanism for providing farners with credit, the proposed introduction of technological
packages for food crops is likely to be inhibited by farmers' lack of funds to finance
essential inputs (seeds, fertilizers, agro-chemicals, agricultural tools and mechanized land
preparation services). The required initial financing for adoption of the recommended
technological packages would be made available to the farmer groups as a grant.
Fmancing requirements are estimated at Rp 256,000 (US$125 equivalent) per farm family
or a total of about Rp 7.7 billion (US$3.7 million) to meet the needs of about 30,000
families Which would be assisted under the project. Grants would be provided on a one-
time basis to each firnly established farmers' group as seed capital for one crop season
on the basis of one ha per farmer after completion of the improved drainage infrastructure
and would constitute a revolving fund to be administered by group members. Funds would
be lent by the farmers' groups to individual members mainly for the purpose of purchasing
seasonal inputs and hiring draft animals or hand tractors for land preparation. Farmers
would repay the borrowed funds to group revolving funds following the harvest and sale
of their crops. The proceeds would again be lent to the group members to finance
requirements for the next crop season.



- 23 -
4.4         Tree Crops. The funding and cost recovery mechanisms for tree crop
development for small farmers have not worked satisfactorily in the past due to the
reluctance of banks to provide long-term loans to poor small farmers, due to their
understandable perception of high risks.  The Government has discontinued the
unsatisfactory system of risk-shared credit for smallholders through the state commercial
banks.  In place of the failed banking system credit used in earlier projects, the
snmalholder program under the Tree Crops Smallholder Development Project (TCSDP,
Loan 3464-IND) approved in 1992 is being financed through the development budget.
Targeted poor participants receive a grant for the first year's inputs, and government credit
for maintenance costs in the subsequent immature period. The credit is to be administered
by the PMUs. After a major review of possible alternatives in early 1993, GOI has
confirmed that it wishes to continue this cost recovery system, and review experience
during 1996/97. The Loan Agreement for TCSDP provides hat the Borrower is to
provide credit for maintenance costs, for a maximum period of 12 years from tree
maturity, through the relevant unit of DGE in accordance with procedures detailed in the
agreement (see Annex 6). Land titles are not required prior to granting credit, but when
land titles are issued, they are not to be released to the farmer until all credit obligations
are met. Further, the Borrower has established standardized amortization schedules for
Smallholder Cost Recovery Agreements; procedures for a simplified system of accounting
for interest on such credits; records of amounts outstanding and due under Smallholder
Cost Recovery agreements; and modified procedures for cost recovery under prior loans,
acceptable to the Bank. As under the TCSDP Loan, an assurance has been obtained from
GOI during negotiations that for the project's coconut development component, the
Government, through the PMUs, would provide credit to farm families and administer
smallholder cost recovery arrangements in accordance with the procedures agreed with the
Bank.
Procurement
4.5         General. Procurement under the project would be undertaken by te
respective project implementing units under the guidance and control of their parent
agencies at the national or provincial levels. Bulking or grouping of contacts across
agencies would not be practical or possible, and has not been adopted. GOI would fund
purchases of vehicles and fertilizer (urea, TSP and MOP) from its own resources because
under GOI rules these items are not open for international compedtive bidding. These
items would be procured by GOI under its own rules in accordance with schedules agreed
with the Bank. An assurance to this effect has been obtained from GOI during
negodations. Provision of vehicles and fertilizer required for the first project year would
be condWons of dibursement against civil works and agricultural inputs, respectively.
4.6         Civil Works. A total of 15 contracts (total cost US$36.5 million including
contingencies) are envisaged for construction of drainage infrastructure, rural roads,
bridges and jetties in 20 project schemes (Annex 2, Table 2). Of these, five contracts are
in excess of Rp 5.0 billion (US$2.4 million), nine vary from Rp 1.2 billion (US$0.6
million) to Rp 4.5 billion (US$2.2 million), and one is only Rp 0.4 billion (US$0.2
million). Since the project schemes are widely dispersed, and civil works in each scheme
consist of a large number of small structures to be built by labor-intensive methods, the



- 24 -
proposed contracts are not expected to be of interest to international contractors, and would
be procured by local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. The
five contracts, each larger than Rp 5.0 billion with aggregate base cost of Rp 31.3 billion
(US$15.1 million or 53 percent of total) would be bid among contractors prequalified for
this purpose. Any international contractors interested in bidding for these contracts, would
be included if they meet the prequalification criteria. A standard bidding document,
prepared by DGWRD on the lines of the Bank's Standard Bidding Document and agreed
to by the Bank, would be used for all civil works procurement. The remaining civil worb
pertaining to rural water supply (about US$10.2 million), houses, offices, hydrological
stations and field research stations (about US$0.8 million) are minor in nature and widely
dispersed. These works would be suitably packaged, usually on annual basis, and
procured in accordance with LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.7         Equipment and Agricultural Facilities. Hydrological equipment, office
equipment, and equipment and materials for agricultural research and extension, and tree
crop development would be suitably packaged by each project implementing unit, generally
on an annal basis, and discussed and agreed with the Bank at the time of review of annual
work programs. Packages estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, except for coconut seed
nuts, would be procured following ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines,
and those costing less than US$200,000 would be procured after following LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank to an aggregate value of US$8.9 million. Packages
costing less than US$50,000 each for minor equipment and materials with an aggregate.
cost not to exceed US$500,000 could be purchased by local shopping. Coconut seed nuts
(US$2.0 million) would be procured following LCB procedures. Labor for coconut
plang (US$8.2 million) would be contracted directly. Land surveying and titling
(US$1.0 million) would be undertaken by Government on force account. The Bank's
standard bidding documents would be used for ICB and as a model for LCB. For bid
comparisons under ICB, local manufacturers would be allowed a 15 percent (of the c.i.f.
price) margin of preference or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
4.8         Training and Consulfing Services. All training activities would be carried
out by direct contracting, or within existing Government training facilities. Consultant
providing technical assistance (para. 3.22) would be selected after inviting proposals from
national and international fms which would be short-listed by GOI, and acceptable to the
Bank. International firms would be required to associate with domestic firms of their
choice. Other consulting services related to surveys and agricultural support are relatively
small in size, or scheme specific, and would be suitable for national consultants. All
consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, and engaged
according to the Bank's Standard Conditions of Contract for Consultants; an assurce to
this effect has been obtained from GOI during negotiations.
4.9         Review of Procurement. The Bank would make a prior review of all
documents related to the award of (a) civil works contracts, whose cost is estimated at
US$1.0 million or more; (b) all ICB contracts for equipment and materials estimated at
US$200,000 or more; and (c) all contracts for consultant firms valued at US$100,000 or
more and for individual consultants at US$50,000 or more. Prior review is expected to
cover about 75 percent of aUl civil works and about 50 percent of equipment by value. For



- 25 -
consltants contracts, te review would include terms of reference, short list, letter of
invitation, recommendation for award and fnal contract. TIe Bank would review all other
procurment ex-post and at random.
4.10        Ihe procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3.
Table 43: PROCURENT ARRANGEmE
(US$ millon)
int'l        Local
Item                 Competidve   Competitive
Bidding      Bidding      Other     N.B.F.   Total
Civil Works                          47.5                            47.5
(28.8)                         (28.8)
Vehicles                                                     l.Ua     1.1
(0.0)    (0-0)
Equipment               0.7           0.7                             1.4
(0.6)        (0.6)                           (1.2)
Agricultural Facilities               10.2        9.7       S.Ua    25.0
and Inputs                          (9.3)       (5.7)k     (0.0    (15.0)
Consultimg Services and Studies
(a)  plemenion Support                            7.7                 7.7
(7.7)Ld       ~~(7.7
Ib) sttion  Cap. Building                        l0.5o              (10.5)
minel. Tranin}                               (10.5A Ld           (10.0
(c) Studies                                       1.8                 1.8
(1.8)Ld            (1.8)
Incr. Admin. Costs                                           5 OLa    5.0
(0.0)    (0.0)
Iner. O&M Costs                                             6.OLa    6.0
(0.0)    (0.0)
Toal                    0.7          58.4        29.7       17.2    106.0
(0.6)       (38.7)      (25.7)      (0.0)   (65.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by Intenational Bank for
Reconstruction and Development.
/a  Vehicles, fertlizer and administation and O&M costs will be financed by 001.
a  Includes labor for coconut planting to be contracted direcdy; purchase through local
shopping of plantig mtenals andhandtools (but excluding fertilizer); and il
surveying and titling by Government agencies on force account.
/c Training activities (US$2.7 million) would be carried out by direct contracting or
within existing Government training facilides.
d  Consul  would be selected after inviting proposals rom national and intemational
firms which would be short-listed by GOI and acceptable to the Bank. Selection wfll
be in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 26 -
Disbursements
4.11        All activities under the project are expected to be completed by March 31,
2000, and the Loan closing date would be September 30, 2000. Disbursements from the
Loan would be made for:
(a)   60 percent of expenditures on civil works;
(b)   100 percent of foreign expenditures (CIF) for directly imported equipment
and materials, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally
manufactured equipment and materials, and 65 percent of expendiures on
locally procured items;
(c)   50 percent of expenditures on agricultural labor for coconut planting;
(d)   91 percent of expenditures on agricultural inputs (except for fertilizers); and
(e)   100 percent of expenditures on land titling, engineering and consultants
services, studies and training.
4.12        Disbursements under the project would be made against Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) for contracts for works valued at less than US$1.0 million, goods and
equipment valued at less than US$200,000, consultants services valued at less than
US$100,000 for fms and US$50,000 for individuals, agricultural labor for coconut
planting, training, and for services for land titling, surveys, designs and supervision of
construction. Contracts disbursed under SOEs would be based on bid documents approved
by the Bank and disbursement for all other expenditures would be on the basis of full
documentation. Documentation for SOE expenditures would be retained by project
implementing agencies and the Directorate General of Budget (Ministry of Finance) and
be made available for inspection by Bank supervision missions. Disbursement conditions
against expenditures on civil works, agricultural inputs and agricultural labor for coconut
plandng, are detailed in paras. 3.16 and 4.5.
4.13        Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be
established in Bank Indonesia to be maintained by the Director General Budget in the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Special Account would be maintained in US dollars with
an initial deposit of US$2.0 million (equivalent to the average disbursements during a four
month period), and would be increased later, as necessary. The Special Account would
be for withdrawals, in all categories, relating to all foreign and local currency expenditures
as long as the withdrawals do not substantially deplete the balance in the Special Account.
The Government would request once per month replenishment of the Special Account or
if its balance falls below 80 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
Accounts and Audits
4.14        Project accounting and auditing arrangements under the proposed project
would be similar to those established under the ongoing Provincial Irrigated Agriculture



-27 -
Developmen Project, Loan 3302-ID. Each project executng agency would establish and
mainin adequate and separate acwunts from the beginning of project imple tion,
gInudn accounts relating to smaliholder credit. To failitate audit of project accounts,
DGWRD, the project lead agency, would collect and consolidate account records of all
Implementn agencies it a single document Assn ces have been obtained from GOI
during negotiaons that  (a) all project accounts including schedules of expenditures
claimed under SOE procedures and usage of the Special Account would be audied
annually by the Government Audi Agency (BPKP), or other suitably qualified auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) audit reports of project accourts, SOE and Special Account
would be submitted to the Bank within nine moDnts of each Government fiscal year.
4.15        The implemg agencies, i.e., DGWRD, DGFCH, DGE and AARD,
would carry out technical audits of project invesments. The terms of reference for these
adi would be prepared, and o      ional ange s proposed, by GOI not later
tm June 1, 1995. The tecical  dts, acceptable to the Bank, would be carried out
every twelve months duriAg the implemeion of the project, commencing not later than
April 1, 1996, and copies of the audit reports would be fuumished to the Bank for
comments not later than October 1, 1996. Assrnces to this effect have been obtained
from 001 during negotaons.



- 28 -
S. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT
AN  IMPLEM[ENTAION
Project Organization and Management
5.1         The Directorate General of Water Resource Development (DGWRD) in the
Ministry of Public Works, through its Directorate of Swamps (DOS), would be the project
lead agency and would be responsible for the development/rehabilitation of drainage
systems and fur the improvement of water supply and rural infrastructure. Within the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Directorate General of Food Crops and Horticulture (DGFCH)
would be responsible for the introduction of new technological packages and extension
services, the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) for adaptive
research activities and the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) for coconut development.
The National Land Agency (BPN) would be responsible for land survey and certification
activities while the Directorate General of Forestry Protection and Nature Conservation
(DGPHPA), in the Ministry of Forestry, would be responsible for implementation of the
Coastal Land Use Management component. These agencies, except for DGE, would carry
out their responsibilities through their respective existing services at the provincial level
(Dinas). The Tidal Land Irrigation Project (P3S) and the Swamp Area Development
Project (P2DR)-representatives of DOS at the provincial level for the development of
tdal and non-tidal swamps, respectively-would be responsible for the development/
rehailitation of drainage systems and for the improvement of roads and jetties, and
potable water supply facilities (the latter with technical support from Cipta Karya and local
NGOs). The Provincial Agriculture Services (PRAS) would be responsible for food crop
development; PHPA in Jambi for the Coastal Land Use Management activities; the
provincial offices of BPN for land survey and certification; and Provincial Water
Resources Services (PWRS) for O&M of drainage infrastructure. Liaison Offices
established by DGE in each of the three provinces would manage tree crop development
activities. Each agency would appoint a Project Manager (PIMPRO) at the provincial level
to manage the project activities for which it would be responsible.
5.2         Each agency would be responsible for the planning, design and
implementation of its work program. To ensure successful project implementation,
however, project activities would be coordinated at two levels. At the provincial level,
the BAPPEDA would coordinate all project activities. BAPPEDA would be responsible
for the preparation of coordinated annual work programs combining the activities of the
various agencies. The coordinated work programs would form the basis for preparation
of the project's annual budgets by respective agencies. A project coordination secretai
would be established under BAPPEDA in each province to provide logistic support and



- 29 -
to manage day-to-day project coordination activities. Each secretariat would comprise two
to three experienced BAPPEDA staff and one or two consultants with proven experience
in the execution of multi-sectoral projects.
5.3         At the central Government level BAPPENAS would coordinate the activities
of central GOI agencies and oversee the implementation of project activities in the three
provinces. BAPPENAS would be supported by a coordination secretariat based in
DGWRD. The secretariat would comprise two regular staff, seconded full-time by
DGWRD and DGFCH, and two consultants (one international and one national). The
secretariat would (a) consolidate agency and provincial work plans into one overall work
plan; (b) ensure consistency in work planning, budgeting and reporting across agencies and
provinces; and (c) monitor the project's implementation progress on the basis of progress
reports provided by the respective provinces and agencies.
Project Monitoring
5.4         Repordng. The project coordination units at the provincial level would
prepare semi-annual implementation performance reports on all project activities in each
province. These reports would be based on the progress reports produced by the various
agencies on their respective components. BAPPENAS would process the provincial
progress reports into single semi-annual progress reports ending March and September
each year which would be submitted to the Bark within six weeks after the end of the.
reporting period. Each report would include a brief description of actual achievements of
the various components compared with the work plan, expenditures incurred, status of
procurement actions, etc., and reasons for differences between actual achievements and
the work plan. Reports related to the coconut credit component would be in the format
agreed, giving particular emphasis to credit recovery performance.
5.5         Annual Implementation Review.  Project implementation would be
reviewed annually so that findings can be reflected in the Government's budgetary process.
The review would take place concurrent with the Bank's regular supervision mission. This
arrangement would provide the flexibility to: (a) amend provincial programs to reflect
performance during the previous year; (b) amend individual work programs reflecting
changes in priorities between components; and (c) incorporate any lessons learned in the
course of the previous year. The first annual implementation review would take place
around October 1994 to review progress of the project's start-up activities and discuss a
draft work program for the following year. A supervision plan for the project is at Annex
13.
Budget Prucedures
5.6         Project activities would be financed in accordance with existing GOI
procedures for financing Bank-assisted projects. While funds for project activities would
be provided under the budgets of concerned sector ministries/agencies at the national level,
budget allocations for project activities would be based on coordinated annual work
programs agreed among project implementation agencies and BAPPEDA at the provincial
level. The budgeting process under the proposed project would comprise the following



- 30 -
steps: (a) PIMPROs appointed by each agency would prepare in June of each year, draft
work programs detailing project activities to be carried out during the following fiscal
year; (b) the BAPPEDAs would review the proposed work programs and prepare
coordinated work plans and draft budgets; (c) the coordinated work plans and draft budgets
would be submitted to BAPPENAS and the concerned ministries/agencies at the national
level in August for incorporation in their annual budget proposals; (d) the coordinated
work plans and cost estimates would be forwarded to the Bank by September 30 of each
year for review; and (e) the final budget proposals based on the agreed work plan would
be forwarded to the Bank before December 31 of each project year. The work plans and
cost estimates to be sent to the Bank for review would include, among others, (i) the
designs and total cost estimates for schemes where construction is scheduled to start during
the year, and (ii) proposed budget allocations for O&M of all water control works in the
schemes included in the project. To ensure that adequate funds would be provided for
planned project activities, assurances have been obtained from GOI at negotiations that
(a) GOI would submit to the Bank for its review and comments: (i) not later than
September 30 each year, a coordinated work program and cost estimates for the following
fiscal year; and (ii) by December 31 each year, coordinated budget proposals for the
provincial work programs agreed with the Bank; and (b) not later than July 1 in each year,
commencing July 1, 1995, satisfactory evidence would be submitted to the Bank eiat the
budgetary allocations for O&M of existing water control works in the project schemes for
the prior fiscal year have been substantially expended.



- 31 -
6. PRODUCTION,                   TING,
FAM INCOM  AN COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production
6.1        Cropping Intensities. The project consists of about twenty discrete schemes
spread over three provinces with substantial differences in climatic, soil and hydrological
conditions. The investments and other actions by the project would contribute to increased
agricultural production. Land use, cropping patterns and intensities, crop yields and
production for the present situation and the 'future without' and 'future with project
implementation' have been estimated for each scheme. Future with project cropping
intensities are expected to average about 120 percent - 140 percent over the total cultived
ara, as opposed to 65 percent -120 percent at present. Cropping patterns would inchlde
increased dry season cropping, including rice and secondary crops like soybeans. Ihe
increased cropping intensities and introduction of technologies would be achieved assuing
a considerable expansion of the use of mechanized power, including animal traction and
two-wheel tractors.
6.2        Crop Yields. Average present yields of wetland rice, the dominant crop
in the swamps, are only about 1.0 ton/ha. Without change in technology ("fiture without
project") paddy yields may increase to about 1.4 ton/ha due to better farm husbadry
practices. "With project" paddy yields are expected to increase substanially due to the
project interventions, i.e. better water control and improved agricultural support services.
Depending on soil and hydrological site conditions, future wet season paddy yields are
expected to range from 2.5 ton/ha to 3.5 ton/ha. In schemes where good qualiy tidal
water is available in the dry season, a yield of 2.5 ton/ha has been assumed for a dry
season wetand rice crop. Soybean yields are projected to increase from between 0.6
ton/ha and 0.8 ton/ha at present to about 1.2 ton/ha with the project. Traditional pure
stand coconuts yield at present about 0.4 ton/ha of copra. The copra yield is expected to
increase to about 1.5 ton/ha as a result of improved water management and fertilizer
applications and to about 3.4 ton/ha when using hybrid varieties.
Marksq
6.3         The incremental production generated by the project is not expected to cause
any marketing problems. A significant portion of the increased food crop production
would be consumed by the producers or in the vicinity of fte scheme areas, dtus
improving nutrtional standards. Marketable surplus is expected to be sold to privae



- 32 -
traders or millers which operate in all the villages. The incremental production of freh
nuts or copra, would be sold to private traders.
Farm Incomes
6.4         Crop Models. The financial analysis was carried out on the basis of one-
hectare crop models representing changes in production resulting from the project
investments and agricultura follow-up services. It also has been assumed that over time
the famers themselves would adopt mechanized cropping practices (aimal traction, small
tractors) to relieve existing or pending labor shortages that constrain expansion of the
cropped area. The results of the analysis, summarized in Table 6.1 below, show ta the
technical changes are financially attractive.
Table 6.1: NET CROP INCOME PER HA (after labor costs)
Future      Future
Without      With
Present    Project      Project   Increase
Crop                         Rp 'OOOh                     X
Wet-season rice:
Fully-hand operated:
High potal                     35         170          375         120
Medim potential                35         170          340         100
Low potenta                    35         170          275          65
Using animal traction:
High potential                  -          -           575         240
Medium poteti                   -          -           482         18S
Low pot                         -          -           395         135
Dry-season rice:
Using animal traction           -           -          385
Dry-seaon soybean:
Fully-hand operated             30         105         415         295
Using animal taion              -           -          460         340
Traditonal pure coconut          135         140         405          165
Hybrid coconut                    -           -          780           -
6.5         Farm Budgets. On the basis of the one-ha crop models, indicatie farm
models were prepared for six represenaive schemes in order to examine the pooetl



- 33 -
impact of the project on farm incomes and family labor use. Farm sizes have been taken
as the average for each area. Cropping patterns are based on land use patterns for rice,
secondary food crops (palawija) and coconut in each area. The results, sunmarized in
Table 6.2 below, indicate that overall family and labor incomes would increase
significantly as a result of farmers adopting the changes in land use and cropping practices.
Another important indication of the strong financial incentives provided by the project are
the high incomes for incremental family labor, compared with the existing casual wage of
Rp 3,500/day and the current average famnily income of about Rp 4,000/day.
Table 6.2: SUmmARY INDICATORS FOR FARm BuDGETs
(Rp '000/ha for value data)
Net
lawme per      nmew  Prem
_____    _                     FainilY Day of   Income per Valus of
ltv7%}     a~Fmilvlcm        laor        Inreenal_I
Future         Future  P ui1o    FPy Dmlay
Farm             Prsn       With    Present  W6ith   Pnt   it     of abor  Incom
Rantau Ruau (2 ha)    95    130      525  2,185    4.1    7.6       9.0    10,820
KualaCinakul(2 ha)  100     125      525  1,625    4.8    9.7       16.6    6,570
Rasau Jaya (2 ha)  115      140      570  2,145    4.6    9.0       11.9    9,925
KapuasKecHl(2 ha)   103     130     570   1,940    4.1    8.1       11.3    8,725
Kapuasecil m (2 ha)  120    130      600  1,630    4.6    8.2       12.1    5,650
SiakKii (2.25 ha)  65       129     415  2,100    3.9    8.9        11.3    11,260
6.6          Labor Use. For all six farm models requirements and availability of labor
were analyzed on a monthly and gender basis. Although total days of labor available per
annum exceeds total annual labor requirements, seasonal peaks in requirements and gender
specificity for labor activities result in short-term shortages of family labor. About 26
days of the average 100 incremental days of labor requirement would have to be met from
hired labor. Most of this additional hired labor requirement would be for female labor for
crop maintenance. Growth in demand for female labor would probably help reduce the
current disparity of about Rp 500 per day paid to women.
Cost Recovery
6.7          Drainage Infsructure. The Government's policy regarding irrigation
O&M funding and cost recovery has been developed to ensure continuous operation and
maintenance of the schemes through fair and equitable contributions by the beneficiaries.
The principles underlying this policy also apply to swamp schemes. However, extension
of the policy to swamp schemes should be planned very carefully, taking into account the
following two factors. First, the Irrigation Service Fee (ISF) collection system is still in
its infancy and more experience is needed before a similar system can be introduced
confidently in the swamp schemes. Second, farmers in the swamp schemes are among the
country's poorest and it therefore is advisable to proceed cautiously. An asswuwe has
been obtained from GOI during negotiations that a study of options for the introduction of



-34-
a drabiage fee in swamp schemes would be completed by June 30, 1998. The study would
take into account further experiences with the implementation of the 1SF system as well
as improvements in fann incomes of the swamp scheme beneficiaries due to the project
investments.
6.8         In the project schemes located in Jambi and Riau Provinces the coLection
of the land and property tax (PBB), at present imposed at the rate of 0.1 percent of the
value of the land, is over 50 percent of the assessed amounts. However, in the West
Kalimantan schemes the PBB has as yet not been collected. As all land owners in the
project schemes stand to benefit by the project, an assurance has been obtained from GOI
during negotiations that the PBB would be collected in all project schemes from April 1,
1996.
6.9         Tree Crop Plantaions. Cost recovery arrangements for coconut plantaions
under this project would be the same as under TCSDP (Loan 3464-IND). An asswnce
has been obtained from GOI during negotiations that it would in consultation with the
Bank, review from time to time the level of credit repayments to be made by smalholders
under the project, taking into account the cash flows of such smallholders; and, thereafter,
make adjusments to such payments as agreed with the Bank.



- 35 -
7. PROJECT BENEFI  AND JUSTIFICATION
Bweneits
7.1         At full development, incremental production from the project would reach
about 65,000 tons of paddy, 30,000 tons of cassava, 6,000 tons of soybeans, 1,500 tons
of maize and 48,000 tons of copra. Incremental production is based on assumptions
discussed in Chapter 6. The project would benefit some 32,000 families with average
incomes below Rp 600,000 (US$300) per annum. As a result of the project, average
incomes from farming would increase to about Rp 1.6 million to Rp 2.2 million (about
US$780 to US$1,070) per family. As such, the project would represent an important step
in implementing GOI's strategy for al'. -'iating rural poverty in previously settled swamp
areas. Also, the project would assist GOI in developing new approaches for managing its
coastal zones and ensuring an environmentally sound approach to further development in
settled swamp areas.
Economic Analysis
7.2         Costs.  Project costs were adjusted to exclude allowances for price
contingencies, taxes and duties. Costs for the agricultural research, potable water supply,
and coastal zone land use management components were excluded because these
expenditures would generate benefits beyond those directly attributable to agricultural
production. Incremental O&M costs have been limited to those that can be direcdy
attributed to project activities, i.e. flushing of drains and incremental terary canal
maintenance.
7.3         Benefits. Project benefits are based on six average area crop models, as
discussed in Chapter 6. In the "without project" situation, paddy yields are assumed to
grow at 1.5 percent per annum for another ten years. The yields of other crops are
assumed to remain constant without the project. The project investment period has been
taken as five years, with land assumed to transfer from existing to new technologies the
year after drainage and investment works in the scheme have been completed. Farmers
are assumed to require five years to reach full project development after they have
transferred to the new technology. The project analysis was carried over a 30 year period.
With improved water control the cultivated area in the selected schemes increases from
about 46,000 ha to 55,000 ha. For the purpose of this analysis it has been assumed
conservatively that improved, more intensive cropping practices would be adopted on about
45,000 of the 55,000 ha. In addition the project would support planting of about 8,000
ha of hybrid coconut in areas bordering the selected schemes.



- 36 -
7.4         Prices. Economic farmgate prices for traded outputs and fertilizers were
calculated on the basis of Bank's February 1993 commodity price forecasts. Financial
prices were assumed to represent opportunity costs for the other commodities. Because
of labor scarcity reported in all project areas, incremental labor use was valued at the
financial wage rates which differ by gender and time of the year.
7.5         Results of the Analysis. The proposed project is expected to yield an
internal economic rate of return (ERR) of 15 percent. Sensitivity analysis, on the basis
of switching values, shows that the result is relatively sensitive to changes in benefits and
costs, as shown in the following switching values (assumed opportnity cost of capital is
10 percent):
Table 7.1: SENvrrITY ANALYSIS
Component                          Switching Value
ARl benefits                            - 22%
Production costs                       + 50%
Variable investment cost               +126%
Project-level investment cost          +172%
All costs                              + 28%
7.6         A separate economic analysis was made for each swamp scheme and for the
coconut developments in each of the three provinces. On the cost side the analysis does
not include the project overhead costs, including consultancies, in view of the conceptual
difficulty of allocating such costs between schemes. For the swamp schemes the ERRs
range between 8 percent and 48 percent. For the coconut schemes the range is 13 percent
to 15 percent (see Annex 12 for details).
Project Risks and Uncertainties
7.7         The main potential project risks include:  (a) lack of integration of
infrastructure improvements with agricultural development activities, causing delays in
achieving the project's benefits; (b) slow progress in the farmers' adoption of the proposed
technological improvements, resulting in lower incremental benefits and therefore a lower
ERR; and (c) lapses in O&M of water management infrastructure, compromising its
sustainability. With a focus on inter-agency coordination, provision of improved
agricultural support services (adaptive research, extension and input financing), promoting
farmer groups' participation in project activities and O&M, and improved O&M of the
water control inftrasucture, the project has been designed to minimize these risks.



- 37 -
B. AGREEMIENTS REACHED AND RECOAON
Assurances
8.1         During negotiations assurances have been obtained from Govenfment that:
(a)  the schemes to be supported by the project would be selected in accordance
with criteria agreed with the Bank (para. 3.6 and Annex 1);
(b)  in all scheme areas farmer groups would be formed, and the ability of those
groups to manage a revolving fund ascertained, before the input packages
are made available to the farmers in those areas (para. 3.12);
(c) agreed criteria (Annex 6, Attachment 1) for screening participants in the
coconut planting program would be followed, and records kept of the
screening process and of the selected participants (para. 3.14);
(d) project management units (PMU) would be established in the project areas
for the planting of coconuts (para. 3.15);
(e)  the cadastral and land use surveys would be completed during the year prior
to planting and the titles issued to the participating coconut growers during
the year of planting (para. 3.16);
(t)   guidelines for the construction of the roads would be prepared by DGWRD
in consulation with Bina Marga and sent to the Bank for comment by
March 31, 1995 (para. 3.17);
(g)   potable water supply facilities would be constructed using a community
based approach, and the beneficiaries of tiese facilities would contribute at
least 10 percent of the value of the facilities in the form of labor, or any
other muually agreeable form of contribution, and fully cover the O&M
costs of the facilities (para. 3.18);
(h) the consultants would be employed by January 15, 1995 (para. 3.22);
(i)   for the tree crop development component the PMUs would provide credit
to farm families and administer smallholder cost recovery arrangements in
accordamce with the procedures agreed with the Bank (para 4.4);



- 38 -
()   vehicles and fertilizer required for the project would be provided by GOI
under a schedule agreed with the Bank (para. 4.5);
(k) all consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines,
and engaged according to the Banks's Standard Conditions of Contract for
Consultants (para. 4.8);
(1)   GOI and its agencies would comply with the reporting and auditing
requirements as specified in para. 4.14;
(m)  GOI would carry out, every twelve months starting April 1, 1996, technical
audits acceptable to the Bank, and send copies of the audit reports to fte
Bank for comments, commencing not later than October 1, 1996; to that
end GOI would submit to the Bank for review and comments not later ta
June 1, 1995, draft terms of reference and proposed organizational
arrangements for the performance of technical audits (para. 4.15);
(n)   GOI would submit to the Bank for its review and comments: (i) not later
than September 30 each year, a coordinated work program and cost
estimates for the project for the following fiscal year; and (ii) by December
31 each year, coordinated budget proposals for the agreed provincial work
programs (para. 5.6);
(o)   satisfactory evidence would be submitted by July 1 of each year,
commencing July 1, 1995, that the budgetary allocations for O&M of
exsting water control works in the project schemes for the prior fiscal year
have been substatally expended (para. 5.6);
(p)   a study of options for the introduction of a drainage fee in swamp schemes
would be completed by June 30, 1998 (para. 6.7);
(q)  land and property tax (PBB) would be collected in all project schemes from
April 1, 1996 (pam. 6.8); and
(r)  the level of credit repayments to be made by the coconut growers under fte
project would be reviewed and adjusted from time to time, in consultation
with the Bank (para. 6.9).
Coditions of Disbursement
8.2        During negotiations Government's agreement has been obtained to the
following disbursement conditions:
(a)   completion of the previous year's cadastral surveys would be a condition of
disbursemet during the following year against expenditures on agricultural
labor for coconut planting (para. 3.16); and



-39 -
(b) provision of vehicles and fertilizer required for the first project year would
be conditions of disbursement against civil works ad agricultural inputs,
respectively (para. 4.5).
8.3         Subject to the above   reemn  and conditions, tie project woud be
suiable for a loan of US$65.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indoesia for 20
years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable inres ro.



-41-                           ANNEX I
INEGRATE  SW    DEVELO                                PROJECT
CRIEIA FOR SELECION OF SWAMP SCHEMES
1.        All swamp schemes to be improved under the project must satsfy tbe
following criteria:
(a) the schemes must be existing settled schemes as the project would not provide
for development of new land and settlement of additional people;
(b)  the technical, environnental and economic aspects of the proposed works for
ali schemes have been reviewed and found to be sound, in particular with
regard to hydro-topography and suitability of soils for cropping;
(c) all proposed improvement works are necessary and have been endorsed by the
community of intended beneficiaries and the local authorities;
(d)  the average estmated cost (in 1993 prices) of civil works for drainage,
irrigation and flood control would not exceed Rp 1.5 million (US$723
equivalent) per cultivable ha for each individual scheme, unless the ERR of
the direct investment for works for such individual scheme is estimated at
12 percent or more; and
(e) beneficiaries would be willing to organize themselves in water users
associations to facilite O&M of tertiary canals and of field channels.



- 42 -                           ANNEX 1
Table 1
iNrTEGRATED SWA   DEVELOP    PROJECT
PME    AREA
Cultivated      Culitivated
Gross Area    Area Without    Area With   Houholds
Province/Scheme                (ha)       Project (ha)    Project (ha)   (Number)
JAMBI
1. RantauRasau                 6,800          ) 8,100         ) 8,200     4,470
2. SimpangPuding               2,300          )               )             747
3. Pamusian                    4,100          ) 7,865        ) 10,240     1,437
4. Lambur                      6,440          )               )             536
5. Dendag I& H                 6,500             3,290          4,900     1,936
Subtotad                  26,140           19,255          23,340     9,126
RTAU
1. Siak Kri A, B, C, & D       8,000             3,600          4,400     2,052
2. Kisla Cinakul               2,715              395           1,115       756
3. TelukKiambang               1,390             1,200          1,200       906
4. Delta Reteh                 7,000             1,524          3,974     1,487
Subtotal                  19,105            6,719          10,689     5.201
WVES KMAT
1. Kaops Kecil  m&M            6,700             4,600          4,700     7,OOLA
2. Pinag Luar                  2,200               700            700       454
3. Rsau Jaya                   7,520             4,640          4,640     2,726
4. Sei Kakp                    3,300             1,980          2,250          /b
5. Sei Bulan                   1,390               590            590       311
6. Olak Olak Kubu              2,350             1,750          1,750       645
7. Air Putih                   2,420             1,900          1,900       391
8. Jangka I                    1,960               858          1,170       292
9. Arus Deas                     635               300            300       143
10. Sei Nipah                  2,600             2,200          2,200       926
11. Dess Kubu                  1,750              875             875       259
Subtotd                  32,825            20,393          21,075    13,197
TOTAL                     78,070           46,367          S5,104    27,524
La Including Sei Kakp.
/b Included in Kapuas Kecil 11 and m.



-43 -                         ANNEX 2
ENNESIA
INTEGRTED SWAMPS DEVELOPMT PROJECT
DRAINAGE S mucl s, ROAD6 AmD JE S
Gmeral
1.        'Me project's civil works would consist of improving and upgrading drainage
and other rural Inatructre in 20 exisng swamp development schemes, covering a gross
area of about 78,000 ha, in the Provinces of Jambi (5 schemes), Riau (4), and West
Kalnntn (11). Drainage infrastructure % )rks would include: (a) strengtn   of
existig and contruction of new flood protection dikes, (b) improvement of navigation,
primary and secondary drainage canals; and (c) repair of existing and construction of new
waer control structures. Other rural inftucture works would consist of: (a) asphalting
of exit  rural trs and roads, and construction of new roads; (b) rehabilitation of
existing and construction of new bridges on nrual roads; and (c) rehabilitation of existing
and constuction of new jetties. Gross area under these schemes, cultivated area (without
and with project), and household numbers are given in Annex 1, Table 1. Details on
existing status of infrastuctre in the schemes, and proposed project works are given
below.
Drai     Infscture
2.        Est   Siuation. ITe five schmes in Jambi Province are located about
80 km north east of Jambi city, in the delta of Berbak and Batanghari rivers. In almost
all scheme areas, amnua flooding of low-lying areas persists. Flooding of some parts of
the Rantau Rasau, Simpang Puding and Pamusiran schemes is severe. In these three
schemes capacity of the exisdng drainage infrastructure is satisfactory. In Lambur and
Dendang I and II schemes the drainage canals are generally narrow and shallow and cannot
carry additional dbcharges. In Simpang Puding, Pamusiran and Dendang I and I no
water control strucues exist in the canals. In Rantau Rasau a few timber flap gates and
concrete sluice gate structures exist, and on some of the secondary canals a small mmber
of tidmber stoplog strucures have been built. Generally, the existing structures have not
been properly used and, as a result, reduced water circulation has caused acidity problems
in this area. Some of the timber strucres have developed leaks due to piping.
3.        The schemes in RIau Province are located in two different areas: Siak, about
90 km north from Pekanbaru, and Indragiri, about 210 kn south east of Pekanbaru. The
Siak Kiri scheme, blocks A,B,C, and D, is located on the left bank of the Siak river. Part
of this area gets flooded annually and most drainage canals in Block A are clogged with
vegetation. A small nm ber of concrete stoplogs and sluice gate structures exist but these
are not in proper working order due to design deficiencies or maintenance problems. The
Indragiri area, located on both banks of the Indragiri river, contains several schemes of



- 44 -                         ANNEX 2
which three (Kuala Cinaku II, Teluk Kiambang, and Delta Reteh) are included in the
project. Parts c. Kuala Cinku II and Teluk Kiambang are flooded annually. Most
drainage canals are in good condition with sufficient capacity. In Delta Reteh the
navigation canal is clogged. There are no control structures in Kuala Cinaku II and Delta
Reteh. In Teluk Kiambang a few concrete sluice gate structures exist but these are not in
working order.
4.         West Kalmantan schemes are located in two areas: the western area, located
west of Pontianak, and the southern area, which lies to the south east of Pontianak. The
westrn area consists of inland swamps and includes Kapuas Kecil II and III and Sei Kakap
(consisting of Betutu and Kalinas) schemes. The southern area, consisting of tidal
swamps, contains nine schemes (Pinang Luar, Rasau Jaya, Sei Bulan, Olak Olak Kubu,
Air Putih, Jangkang I, Arus Deras, Sei Nipah, and Desa Kubu). In Kapuas Kecil II and
III, Sei Kakap, Pinmg Luar, Arus Deras, and Desa Kubu flood protection dikes exist but
part of these areas still are flooded, either because the dikes are breached at several
locations, or because they are not high enough. In Sei Bulan, Olak Olak Kubu, and Sei
Nipah substantial flooding is experienced every year. In Air Putih and Jangkang I no
flooding is reported. In all schemes the condition of the drainage canals is generally
satisfactory and their capacity is adequate. In Rasau Jaya, Olak Olak Kubu and Arus
Deras timber stoplog strucures exist but some are not in working order due to bad
maintenance and piping/leakage problems. In Kapuas Kecil, Rasau Jaya and Sei Nipah
there are a few flap gate and sluice gate structures, some of which are not in working.
order. In Pinang Luar, Sei Bulan, Air Putih, Jangkang I, and Desa Kubu there are no
cotrol structures at all.
5.        Proposed Project Works. In the Rantau Rasau, Simpang Puding and
Dendang I and II schemes in Jambi Province, new dikes would be constructed to protect
the flood affected areas. In Pamusiran and Lambur schemes flooding would be relieved
by clearing a clogged stretch of Simbur Naik river. In Lambur and Dendang I and II
drainage canals would be widened and deepened to increase their capacity. In Panusiran
a new main drain would be excavated and main canals extended to outfall into this drain.
The existing timber stoplog structures in Rantau Rasau and Lambur schemes would be
rehabilkated, where feasible, or replaced. New stoplog structures would be constructed
in those parts of the schemes where they do not exist. In all five schemes new sluice gate
and flap gate structures would be added at strategic locations to provide adequate water
level control capability in the drainage canals serving the scheme areas.
6.        In Siak Kiri, Kuala Cinaku II and Teluk Kiambang schemes of Riau Province
new dikes would be constructed to protect flood affected lands. In Siak Kiri a new main
drain would be added to relieve the area of flood spills from the surrounding rivers and
the drainage canals would be cleaned. Most existing drainage canals in the four schemes
have adequate capacity and are in good condition. A few canals need to be extended or
improved. In Delta Reteh the Enok river channel would be declogged and improved. New
stoplog structures would be added on the secondary canals of Delta Reteh and Kuala
Cinaku I schemes. In Siak Kiri and Teluk Kiambang schemes the existing stoplog
structures would be rehabilitated, where feasible, and new structures would be added. In
all four schemes sluice gate or flap gate structures would be added, where necessary, to



-45-                           ANNEX 2
provide adequate water level control capability in the drainage canals serving the scheme
areas.
7.        In Kapuas Kecil, Sel Kakap and Arus Deras schemes in West Kal tan the
extng dikes would be strengthened and raised where necessary. in Sei Bulan, Olak Olak
Kubu and Sei Nipah new dikes would be constructed to protect the scheme areas from
extrnal flooding. In Pinang Luar, Olak Olak Kubu, Jangkang I, Sei Nipah, and Desa
Kubu either the existing canals would be extended or some new canals would be
excavated. Existing water control structures would be rehabilitated where feasible, and
new ones constructed at suitable locations, to adequately control water levels in the
drainage canals serving the scheme areas.
Hydrological Network
8.        In Jambi project area there are eight daily rainfall stations, six automatic
rainfall recorder stations and six automatic water level recorder (AWLR) stations.
Mainteance of these stations is not satisfactory and the reliability of data collected from
hese stations is questionable. To supplement the existing network for purposes of the
project, two new daily rainfall stations, two additional rainfall gauges and five new
AWLRs would be provided under the project.
9.        In Riau project area only one rainfall station is operating in the Siak area and
ere are no AWLRs. In the Indragiri area there are no AWLRs although three sheters
for AWLRS exist. Some piezometers also exist in this area for observing ground water
levels. Under the project four new daily rainfall stations, one new automatic rainfall
recorder and five new AWLRs would be added.
10.       In West KaClam  project area there are fourteen rainfall stations, four
automaic rainfall recorders and eight AWLRs. The climatological station at Pondanak
airport also serves the project area. Under the project, two new daily rainfall stations, one
automatic rainfall recorder, and five new AWLRs would be provided.
11.       For more reliable data collection and improved maintenance of the network,
the project would provide, in all three provinces, transport facilities and training for data
observers and their supervising officials (Jurus and Pengamats). Details of civil works and
equipment to be provided under the project are in Table 1 of this Annex.
Rural Roads and Navigation Facaities
12.       General. The scheme areas within each province  are generally well-
connected with each other and with the hinterland through the river navigation system.
Within each scheme a number of single-lane earth roads exist but these become impassable
during the wet season. In some areas a few asphalted single-lane roads or motorcycle
tracks also exist, some of which need rehabilitation. Most bridges in the scheme areas are
wooden; some of ese need rehabilitation or reconstruction. Because of the importance
of river navigation, jeties play a prominent role.  Several existing jettes need
reabilitation, and a few need to be added.



-46 -                         ANNEX 2
13.       Rural Roads and Bridges. Rantau Rasau, Simpang Puding, Pamusiran, and
Lambur scheme areas in Jambi are already equipped with an acceptable asphalted and earth
road network and do not require additional ro.ds. However, there are no asphalted roads
in Dendang I and II area and only a few internal earth roads exist. Under the project,
15.1 km of intemal roads (width 3.0 m) would be asphalted and five exisdng wooden
bridges would be rehabilitated in this area.
14.       In Siak Kiri area in Riau Province a number of earth roads exist which serve
the intenal needs. The project would asphalt the main earth road from Buatan (in Block
C), in the south, to the proposed jetty on Siak river in Block A, to the north. It would
also comect with the existing jetty in Block C. Total length of this 3.0 m wide road
would be 25.5 kn. Two existing wooden bridges on this road would be replaced by
concrete bridges for carrying heavier loads. In  dragiri area the main connectng road
(length 10.0 kIn) between Blocks C and D of Kuala Cinaku II would be asphalted and one
bridge in this reach would be rehabilitated.
15.       The western area (Kapuas Kecil and Sei Kakap schemes) in West Kalmatan
is well served by asphalted roads including the Pontianak-Kakap road; no improvements
are needed. In the southern area a number of new roads would be constructed and the
existing earth roads would be asphalted with a view to interconnect the scheme areas:
(a) the Rasu Jaya and Sei Bulan schemes, both on the northern bank of the Punggur Besar
river, would be connected through a 14.7 km asphalted road; and (b) a loop road.
(58.2 kin) along the southern bank of the river would interconnect Sei Nipah, Arus Deras,
Pinang Luar, Phnang Dalam (not included in this project) and Air Putih schemes. In
addition, existing internal roads would be improved or new roads constructed in Jangkang
1, Olak Olak Kubu, and Desa Kubu schemes. Four bridges would be rehabiltated or
constucted in connection with these roads.
16.       Navigaion Facities. In Simpang Puding scheme in Jambi the jetty at
Puding (connected to the asphalted road network) is in an almost collapsed state due to
river soour; this jetty (length 50 m) would be reconstructed under the project. A new jetty
(about 16.0 m by 6.5 m) would be constructed on Batanghari river in Dendang I area, as
cufrently no jetties exist to serve Dendang I and II areas.
17.       In Siak Kirl scheme in Riau the existng jetty at Block C would be extended
so that it can handle increased traffic after the project. A new jetty would be added on the
Siak river in Block A, at the end of the south-north asphalted road. No additional facilities
are needed in the Indragiri area.
18.       In the western area of West Kalmanan the Kakap jetty would be extended
to a length of 50 m; this jetty is the main transfer point between land and water transport
in this area. The banks of the Jeruju river would be protected against erosion. In the
southern area, a new jetty would be constructed in Sei Nipah area to replace the existng
jetty, which is nearly collapsed. No other facilities are envisaged in other schemes of ftis
area, except for minor repairs to the jetties at Sei Bulan, Arus Deras, Air Putih, and Desa
Kubu for which a lump sum provision has been made.



-47-                           ANNE  2
Procurement Of Civi works
19.       Table 2 lists 15 procurement contracts proposed for drainage infratructure,
roads and jetties for the project schemes. Of these, four contracts would be in Jambi, four
in Riau and seven in West Kalimantan.



-48-                          ANNEX 2
Table 1
ADONESIA
INTREGATED SWAM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HYDROLGJCAL CVIL WORKS AND EQUIMENT
Province/                        Number           Unit
Type of Works and Equipment      Reqd.            Cost           Total Cost
(Rp million)    (lp million)
Jambi
1. Civil Works
AWLR platform                   5             10.0             50.0
2. Equipment
AWLR equipment                  S             10.0            15.0
Discharg!e kit                  1             15.0             15.0
Rainfall gauge                  4             0.7               2.8
Miscellaneous                   -             amount           17.0
Subtotal Equipment                                              84.8
Riau
1. Civil Works
AWLR platform                   6              8.0             48.0
2. Equipment
AwLR equpment                   5             10.0             50.0
Discharge kit                   1             15.0             15.0
RainhilM gauge                  4              0.7              2.8
Auto. rainfall recorder         1             5.0               5.0
Miscellaneous                   -             amount           19.2
Subtotal Equipment                                              92.0
West Kalimantan
1. Civil Works
AWLR platform                    5            10.0             50.0
2. Equipment
AWLR equipment                  5             10.0             50.0
Discharge kit                   1             15.0             15.0
Rainfall gauge                  2              0.7              1.4
Auto. raifall recorder          1             5.0               5.0
Miscellaneous                   -             amount           18.6
Subtotal Equipment                                              90.0
Total Civil Works                                              148.0
Total Equipment                                                266.8



-49-                             ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
I1EG1RATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR CIL WOPK
Package                  GrossAea Ghoss Aea   Base Cost  DBseCost  Construcion
No.      Scheme          Scheme   Pacge       Scheme    Packa        Schedule
-   (ba) -   -   (Rp milion) -      (mo/yea)
Jambi
1.1  Lwmur (1)              1,800      1,800    365.0        365.0     11/94-7/95
J.2  Lambur (2)             4,640               940.3
PamusirD                4,100             2,225.0
Subtotal J.2                        8,740                3,165.3     11/95-7/97
J.3  Dadlang I & n          6,500     6,500   6,946.0      6,946.0     11/95-7/97
1.4  Rsntau REsau           6,800              1,939.1
Simpmag Puding          2,300             2,547.6
Subtotd J.4                         9,100                4,486.7     7/96-3/98
Total Jambi              26,140    26,140               14,963.0
Riau
RL IDela Retch (1)          2,300     2,300   1,219.0      1,219.0     11/94-7/96
R.2 Siak Kid                8,000     8,000   8,243.6      8,243.6     11/95-7/98
R.3 KialacinakulR           2,715              2,561.2
Teluk Kambang           1,390             2,495.2
Subtotal R3                         4,105                5,056.4     11/95-7/97
R.4 Delta Reteh (2)         4,700     4,700   2,492.0      2,492.0     7/96-3/98
Totd Riau                19,105    19,105               17,011.0



-50-                             ANNEX 2
Table 2
Table 2 (cont'd)
Package                  Gross Area Gross Area   Base Cost  Base Cost  Construction
No.      Scheme          Scheme   Package      Scheme    Package     Schedule
(ha)-            (pmillion)-    (mo/year)
West Kali_mtan
K.1 Kapuas Kecil I & HI     6,700              3,644.0
Sei Kakap               3,300             1,794.6
Subtotal K.1                        10,000               5,438.6     11195-7/97
K.2 Rasau Jaya              7,520              2,267.2
Arus Deras               635              1,506.4
Subtotal K.2                         8,155               3,773.6     11/95-7/97
K.3 Sei Nipah               2,600     2,600   5,639.6      5,639.6     7/96-3/98
K.4 Pinang Luar             2,200     2,200   1,787.6      1,787.6     11/94-7/96
K.5 Sei Bulan               1,390              1,507.6
Jangkang I              1,960             1,324.8
Subtotal K.5                         3,350               2,832.4     7/96-3/98
K.6 Air Putih               2,420              1,507.0
Roads                                     2,084.4
Subtotal K.6                      2,420               3,591.4     11/95-7/97
K.7 Olak Olak Kubu          2,350              2,398.8
Desa Kubu               1,750             1,518.0
Subtotal K.7                        4,100                3,916.8     7/96-3/98
Total West Kaliuantan    32,825    32,825               26,980.0
Total ftoject            78,070    78,070               58,954.0



-51-                           ANNEX 3
WDON)lESIA
GINGRATED SWAPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPEATN AND  MNTNANCE
re8ent Situation
1.        The responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the swamp
schemes at the main and secondary systems level lies with the Provincial Water Resources
Services (PWRS). Aragements, however, vary between provinces: (a) in Jambi O&M
is undertaken by two provincial O&M units which have developed out of the previously
cenally funded P2JP; (b) in Riau this function is carried out by three O&M units dealing
with water resources planning, supervision and control projects covering swamps, rives
and irrigation systems, which have developed from the former P2JP (no longer active);
and (c) in West Kalimantan O&M is undertaken by a single swamps O&M unit which has
developed out of P2JP.
2.         At present, there is uncertainty about O&M, both in terms of duration and
budget. Although recent budget allocations have considerably increased over previous
years, fundig is stil insufficient to implement proper O&M. The FY93/94 budget under
APBD fumding amounts to about Rp 18,000/ha/year in Janibi, Rp 14,000/ha/year in Riau
and about Rp 19,000/ha/year in West Kalimantan. In addition, shortages of O&M field
staff (Jurus and Pengamats), lack of transportaion, communications and other equipment,
combined with the fact that most Jurus are assigned to schemes away from their place of
residence, severely limits the effectiveness of O&M.
3.        At the tertiary unit and on-farm levels, O&M is the responsibility of the
farmers. At the tertiary level O&M is carried out by their joint efforts through P3A, the
local form of Water Users Organizations/Drainage Associations (WUA) ; at the field level
the responsibility is with the individual farmer. However, there are at present no
functional WUAs, although a standard pattern has been established for their formation and
organizaion (Regulation number 12/1992 of Ministry of Home Affairs). Formation of
WUAs is constrained by: (a) lack of clear defuition of a teriary canal-most tertiarie
are called secondaries and consequently considered the responsibility of the provincial
authorities; (b) lack of coordination between PPLs, Juru and village head (Kepala Desa);
and (c) lack of resources to support the formation of functional WUAs. In addition, the
frmers most of whom are Javanese transmigrants, not used to swanp agriculture, lack
appropriate on-farm water management skills.
Proposed Development
4.         The proposed project would support the strengthening and improvement of
O&M  of emistig, rehabilitated and new water management infrastructure to ensure
optnim levels of: (a) operation required for removal, supply and circulation of water at



- 52 -                        ANNEX 3
the right tme so as to maximize crop production in the project areas; and (b) regular and
periodic maintenance to keep the system facilities and equipment in good working
condition. In this context, the project would support: (a) financing of incremental O&M
costs after construction; (b) adequate staffing levels and O&M facilities, system procedures
and practices; and (c) formation and strengthening of WUAs.
5.        Immediately following the rehabilitation of the schemes, O&M would be
improved. To ensure optimal water control for agriculture, operational guidelines would
be prepared for each scheme and each water control structure. These would be based on
the design concepts adopted which, in turn, would mainly depend on the hydro-topography
of the area. In general there would be two alternative methods for water management
imnprovement, inter alia, the "dry option" and the "wet option". The first method involves
drainage to 0.40 to 0.60 m depth so that the topsoil is leached by rainfall thus creating a
favorable root zone. The second method involves enhanced leaching thus reducing the
concentration of organic acids to subcritical levels. In this case the drainage base remains
high and sufficient supply of fresh water is needed for percolation.
6.        The matenance program would be need based and well-balanced taking into
account the functioning and maintenance conditions of the infrastructure and allocated
funds. Maintenance activities would include: (a) routine maintenance such as grass and
weed control of drainage canals and embankments and lubrication, cleaning, tarring and
painting of gates; and (b) periodic maintenance, including desilting of canals and repairing
or replacement of worn down or damaged parts of structures, offices and housing.
7.        Water management would be implemented at two levels: (a) at the scheme
level-main and secondary systems-by staff of the PWRS responsible for O&M; and (b)
at the field level-tertiary and on-farm-by WUAs and individual farmers. The operation
of main and secondary system structures would be directly linked to on-farm water
numagement.  Staff requirements would be assessed based on the number and
sophistication of the structures built or rehabilitated under the project. O&M staff (Juru
Pengairan) would not only be responsible for the operation of the structures (task concept)
but would actively provide extension to farmers on recommended water management
techniques (assistance concept).
8.        At the tertiary level, the WUAs would be strengthened under the project and
provide the organizational infrastructure for improving water management. The WUAs
would, inter alla: (a) serve as communication link between PWRS and the farmers;
(b) channel the needs and desires of farmers to the various government agencies; and
(c) promote collective action of individual farmers in taking care of water management and
maintenance of the tertiary system. Preferably the tertiary water management unit would
coincide with the agricultural extension units in order to also disseminate information and
assistance on agricultural practices and technologies.
9.        Each WUA would appoint a spokesperson, the ulu-ulu, who would be
responsible for day-t-day operation at the tertiary level. The main tasks of the ulu-ulu
would include: (a) communication with provincial O&M staff on behalf of the farmers;
(b) coordination of on-farm water management and water control in tertiary drainage



- 53 -                         ANNEX 3
canals; (c) coordination of maintenance of repair works of the tertiary drainage canals,
embankments and structures (gotong royong); and (d) guidance and instructions to the
farmers on recommended water management techniques and agricultural practices. To
achieve the above objectives, the project would implement training programs for extension
officers and for WUAs; and support the implementation of on-farm water management
demonstration plots to be established within hydrological units (see Annex 4).
10.       The cost of O&M for the main and secondary systems would be scheme
specific and mainly depend on: (a) the size and number of structures and drainage canals;
and (O) the incidence of sedimentation in the drainage canals and rivers. A breakdown of
average anmal O&M cost for appraisal purposes is given below:
Table 1: PER HA Cosr OF O&M
Cost Item                           Cost per
ha (Rp)
O&M Section Staff                                               2,500
Tansportation, office supplies and labor costs                  3,000
Routine maintenance                                            10,000
* grass and weed control canals and embankments (Rp 6,000/ha)
* structures and buildings (Rp 4,000/ha)
Periodic maintenance (desilting main, secondary canals and rivers)  20,000
Other, incl. emergency maintenance                              4,500
Total 40,000
11.       Maintenance of the teriary drainage canals and inlets would be the
responsibility of the WUAs. Most of the routine maintenance works would consist of
grass slashing and weed removal from the tertiary canals by the beneficiaries themselves.
Labor output for grass slashing is estimated at 450 mn/labor day, and for weed removal
at 200 m2/labor day. Grass slashing would be required once per three months and weed
removal twice a year. Depending on the size of the tertiary drainage canals, which vary
from about 2 to 10 m in top width (largest in West Kalimantan), this would amount to a
labor input of about one half to one day per month for each farm. Periodic maintenance,
mainly desiling, would be required once every three years, based on an average silt
deposition of 0.1 m per year and it would take (on average) the equivalent of one labor
day per month to remove it. In addition, an incidental cash contribution would be required
for tertiary structure maintenance.



-54-                          ANNEX 4
EqDONESIA
INEGRATED SWAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTMAL EXTNON FOR SWAM  AREAS
Eisti  Situation
1.        Agricultural extension in tihe project area is the responsibility of the Provincial
Agriculral Services (PRAS) with technical guidance of the National level Directorate
General of Food Crops and Horticulture (DGFCH). Focal points for extension activies
are the Rural Extension Centers (REC), of which there are four in Jambi, five in Riau and
six in West Kalimantan. Project areas represent some 50 percent of the area covered by
the existing RECs. While a few of these RECs are not located in the most favorable
position in relation to project areas, they generally cover the areas adequately and the
is no need for additional construction. However, most of the RECs and associated staff
housing need to be rehabilitated, and fully equipped to provide effective extension services.
2.        Until recently there was a problem to attract and retain extension staff in the
area, but this appears to have been overcome. At least quantitatively, present staffing is
adequate and well within the ratios of field extension workers to farm households deemed
appropriate even for the more difficult and remote areas. Most of the field extension
workers (PPLs) are recent appointees, however, who lack experience and need
considerable training and supervision to become fully effective. There is still a shortage
of more experienced, senior extension workers (PPUPs) although the number of
established positions appears adequate. Adequate provision of transport, equipment and
materials, as well as operational funds to conduct demonstrations, workshops, training
sessions and farmers field days, are needed to strengthen the existing extension services.
3.        Strong farmer involvement in all facets of extension activities and an effective
linkage between research and extension (which hitherto has been elusive), are essentil
components to a viable extension program. The involvement of farmers, although not
highy developed in many areas, is mainly through farmers groups (KT), of which some
600 exist in the project area in various stages of formation and active implementation.
Such groups are commonly based on the village or tertiary units and are formed for
different purposes, including mutual aid, women's activities and, more recently, water
management (WUA). These groups need considerable strengthening but provide the basis
for strong comnmnity and agricultiral development with the help of extension services.
Proposed Developments
4.        Extension activities under the project would be considerably intensified under
the responsibility of PRAS with technical support and supervision from DGFCH and DGE
staff. Under the ongoing reorganization of the extension services, which emphasizes



-55 -                         ANNEX 4
decentralization of extension activities, responsibility for planning and implementation
would progressively shift from the provincial and national level to Kabupaten and
Kecamatan staff, but considerable strengthening is required at these levels.
5.        Present staff levels are adequate although experience is lacking. GOI would
ensure that all available positions, particularly those of senior, more experienced staff
(PPUPs) would be kept filled with suitably qualified people during the project and beyond.
The existing number of RECs would also be sufficient to cover the project schemes.
However, 10 of the existing RECs and associated staff accommodation would be
rehabilitated.
6.        The main elements (and hence largest investments) in the proposed program
for increasing the effectiveness of existing extension services would be: (a) training of
both staff and farmers (including special programs for women); (b) the formation and
increasing the cohesiveness and capability of farmer groups (which would to the extent
possible coincide with WUAs in tertiary units) as the basic unit for focussing and
chanmelling extension and other support activities; and (c) close communication and linkage
of extension staff with research staff through carefully planned and executed training
programs and mutual involvement in planing and implementing the FSTA and tertiary
hydraulic management units.
7.        In addition to providing extension workers width the required training,
supervision and specialist support, the project would support the more intensive program
by providing equipment, materials and operating funds for conducting meetings,
workshops, training programs, field days and other extension activities; as well as
transport, travel and associated expenses for extension workers, trainers and supervising
staff from provincial and national level and farmers. Trainers and specialists would be
recruited from different institutes within AARD, the different DGs in MOA, universities
and consultants and private sector where appropriate. Senior, experienced officers from
the Ministries of Agriculture and Home Affairs, universities and the Provincial Services
would provide the required guidance and supervision.
8.        A major instrument for demonstrating and extending improved technology and
introducing new technology developed by research would be the tertiary hydraulic
management unit, of which 30 would be established along the same lines as the FSTA
implemented by AARD (see Annex 5, para 3). These would be implemented in developed
schemes through established farmers groups with sufficient experience to manage the
program of improved farm management, including the revolving fund created from one
time grants to individual farmers for seasonal inputs. After an original survey of the area
and farmer group interest and capability, an overall plan followed by individual farm plans
would be implemented emphasizing improvements in soil and water management,
agronomic practices and pest control. Results would be closely monitored and the units
would be focal points for training activities.
9.        Using the experience and demonstration effect of these tertiary hydraulic
units, the program would be extended to other tertiary units covering about 600 farmier
groups, and about 30,000 farmers who would all receive the one tme grant during the



-56-                          ANNEX 4
project period. By means of the revolving fund, to be managed by the farmers group, the
total area covered would ultimately expand to at least 45,000 ha, and possibly the full
55,000 ha of cultivated land. The basic approach in extension would be the training and
visit (TV) system which would be progressively modified to give farmers more initiative
and participation in the decision making process, as farmer knowledge and experience
increases. Emphasis would be on practical, hands-on training in the field. The concept
of farmers field schools, so effective in training farmers in Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) techniques, would be gradually introduced.
10.       Training for both staff and farmers would encompass project management,
implementation and management of farmer group activities, water management (in
conjunction with PRIS and WUA), agronomic practices, seed production, pig and rat
control, farm mechanization, and post-harvest handling and marketing (including special
courses on agro-processing for women). AAET, in conjunction with other agencies, is
making a start in preparing a detailed, overall flexible framework for project related
training based on estimated requirements and available resources. This will be a
refmement of the training proposals reviewed at appraisal. The overall framework will
identify and give quantitative estimates of the different types of training required at all
levels, their content and sequencing, and also identify the institutions or individuals capable
of planning, organizing and implementing such training. This would form the basis for
detailed annual training plan to be prepared for each subproject.
11.       The implementation schedule and sequencing of training, group formation and
extension activities would roughly follow the physical works schedule although there would
be a lot of overlap since activides such as group organization and formation would proceed
before or during construction activities, and the start of other activities would depend on
stage of development of a particular scheme, the amount and timing of the required works
and the size of their expected impact, and the existence of experienced farmers groups.
The projections given in the tables are the best estimates of how the agricultural activities
would be integrated with the physical works schedule. This would be refined during
project implementation.



- 57 -                        ANNEX 5
INONESIA
TPGRATED SWAP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGMCULTAL RESEARCH FOR SWAMW  AREAS
Exsting Situton
1.        Agricultural research for tidal swamp areas is the responsibility of Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development (AARD). Research is carried out at Karang
Agung in South Sumatra, with outlying research sites in South Sumatra and South and
Central Kalimantan.  Research is aimed at developing improved soil and water
management and improved agronomy for different commodities. New technologies are
ntegrated in ongoing fam systems research which is conducted in four stages: (a) land
type identification and characterization; (b) design and testing of alternative farming
systems; (c) refinement of adapted farming systems; and (d) development research. The
ler comprises final tests ard verification of the integrated farming system under fairly
large scale conditions on furmers fields, involving farmers' groups, cooperative and
extension staff as well as field-research workers. The process is guided by senior research
workers from different instiuons in a coordinated swamps research program.
2.        Little systematic research has been conducted in the project areas.
Preliminary observaions have indicated that most schemes are dominated by potential and
peat/peaty soil typologies and have not been brought fully under cultivation. Immediate
improvements with existing technologies developed at Karang Agung are possible,
particularly on the potential and shallow peat soils, with improved water control. On-site
research is required, however, particularly of the type in categories (a) and (d) above, in
the project area to determine, in conjunction with farmers, extension workers and other
agencies, the key factors for improving agricultural production and productivity in each
land typology. In addition to introducing technological improvements, such on-farm
research should also point the way to overcoming problems of non-availability of inputs
and labor and power shortages during peak periods. On-farn research also should explore
possibilities of diversification, such as the introduction of livestock and aquaculture.
Proposed Developments
3.        The project would provide continuing support for the ongoing swamps
research program at Karang Agung and would extend field level research into the project
area in 10 selected Farming Systems Technology Adaptation sites (PSTA). Research in
Karang Agung would concentrate on technology component research on acid sulphate sois,
especially ta related to soil and water management changes of soil charac s,
environmental impacts, and improvemen of the crop and animal management in integrated
farming systems. Component research would include varietal improvement, ferlizer use,
livestcfish cultre, and modification and utilization of simple farm machnery and



-58 -                          ANNEX S
equipment (soil tillage, planting, weeding, harvesting and processing). Field level research
in project areas would entail: (a) land characterization of the project areas generally, and
more detailed site characterization of the 10 research and 30 intensive teriary unit
locations in terms of: (1) water regime; (2) topography; (3) thickness and ripening of
peats; (4) depth and potential acidity of pyritic layers and type of acid sulphate soils; (5)
tidal types of the land; (6) soil fertility status; and (7) water quality of the areas; and
(b) development research in the 10 selected tertiary units for farming systems technology
adaptation, which would include the introduction of supplementary power (tractors and
draft animals) under different types of management at selected sites.
4.         Land and site characterization would include soil surveys, mapping and agro-
socio-economic profile studies. Data collection would include information on farmer
groups and group dynamics in improved technology adaption, capital management and the
development of groups facilities. Investigations would also include farming systems
input/output relationships and the performance of external support systems such as input
supply, credit, extension, and marketing.
5.        Results from these investigations would form the basis for the design of an
adaptive research program on farming systems technology development in relation to area
and regional development. The approach would be as follows:
(a)  at each of the 10 sites, a farmers group would be selected in a tertiary unit
representative of a certain land (swamp) typology and water management
regime. Selection would be done in consultation with local government and
other agencies. After initial data gathering, a site plan and individual farm
plans would be developed with the farmers;
(b) selected technology packages would be gradually introduced considering land
and farm heterogeneity, farmers' knowledge and absorptive capacity, and
limited funds and labor;
(c)  farmers would be given a one-time grant in the form of a complete input
package for one season which after harvest would be deposited in a revolving
fund to be managed by the fanner group for providing further working capital
for its farmer members. Continuous training, monitoring and regular
meetings and field days of farmers, extension staff and other concened
district staff to discuss progress and find solutions to problems encountered
would be an integral part of the adaptive research.
6.        At some selected FSTA sites, the research would include aquaauture and at
others an assessment of the potential for tractor hire service on a sustaining basis in a
program involving farmer groups, extension workers, cooperatives, artians and private
entrepreners. This would entail a critical assessment of farm tractors and machiry for
different conditions as well as supporting workshop requirements, and would lead to the
establishment of the system components to be managed on a sound commercial bass.
Tractors and machinery would be leased to private entrepreneurs to provide a hire service
to fme  who would pay for the service out of the revolving fimds. The provision and



59-                          ANNEX 5
use of draft animal power to overcome labor shortages would also be investigated at
several sites.
7.        The research program would be implemented by a group of interdisciplinry
researchers from different research centers and institutes within AARD under the overall
guidance and management of a full-time coordinator of swamp research, who would
coordinate research activities at Karang Agung and all field locations.   The
interdisciplnary team would include specialists in agronomy, soil and water management,
pest management, livestock, aquaculture, farm mechanization and socio-economics and
would also be able to draw on AARD scientists in other disciplines when necessary. Each
field site would be staffed with a minimum of one graduate field researcher and two field
technicians. An administrative officer would be located in each of the three provinces.
Impierentation would be in accordance with detailed annual work plans prepared for
Karang Agung and each of the research sites by September 30 of each year starting in
September 1994, and reviewed by the Bank. A system of regular reporting of the research
results would be set up and the program would be assisted by expatriate and local technical
assistance as specified in Annex 9.



-60-                        ANNEX 6
DMDNESLS
IN EGRATED SWAMP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRE CROP DEVEO3PMNT
Present Situation
1.        Although rice predominates in all project schemes, coconuts are the second
most important crop and the most mportant perennial crop in the faming system. The
largest proportion of coconuts is found in mixed cropping systems with rice and other
crops. They are grown on individual mounds in rice fields, on raised beds with rice in
the sunken part (surjan), or in hedges on bunds surrounding rice fields. Pure stands are
found, to a lesser extent, on deeper peat soils which are unsuitable for annual crop
production.
2.        Coconuts frequently replace rice in newly cleared land when weeds imvade in
the third or fourth year of cropping and rice yields decline drastically. They are tolerant
to high water tables and can stand short periods of flooding provided drainage is adequate.
Ihey also tolerate saline conditions and can be reasonably productive on deeper peat soils.
3.        Like other crops, coconuts are not very productve under smallholder swmp
conditions, with yields of 40-50 nuts per tree or 800 to 900 kg of copra per ha, mostly of
very low quality. However, their cultivation requires little labor and they provide stlers
with a low but dependable income. They frequently represent the most important source
of cash and also contribute significantly to the daily diet. The fact that coconuts tend to
gradually replace rice as conditions for sustainable cultivation of the latter under a low
input-output system deteriorate over time is evident from the much higher proportion of
cocomnts found in the older schemes.
4.        In Jambi, mixed rice-oconuts cropping systems are found on some 60 percent
of the project area, with pure coconut stands on less than one percent, but increasing. In
Riau, with a higher proportion of deep peat soils, coconuts are much more important and
about 30 percent of the project area is estimated to be under pure stands and another 50
percent under mixed rice-coconuts. Rice mono-cropping is pr.acticed much less frequently
than in Jambi or West Kal=antan. In the project areas in West Kalimantan pure stands
of cocomnts only occur in one scheme, Kapuas Kecil, while mixed rice-coconut cultivation
covers about 35 percent of the project area.
5.        Ihere is considerable scope for increasing coconut cultivation in the project
areas in al three provinces and, if grown in pure stands under estate-like conditons, to
increase yields, quality and profitability. In addition, there air large areas adjoining
project schemes, that are suitable for coconut development which, when developed
sbmltaneously with the project schemes would permit the establishment of "economic



- 61-                       ANNEX 6
units" large enough to attract private sector interest to establish processing, storage and
marketing facilities.
6.        Various projects have been implemented by GOI, including the Bank-
supported Smallholder Coconut Development (SCDP) and Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders (NES) projects and, more recently the Tree Crops Smallholders Development
Project (rSCDP). These projects depend on the use of high-yielding hybrid palms or
improved agronomic practices for existing or replanted tall palms. The most successful
approach has been through the establishment of smallholder plantations by Project
Management Units (PMU) of the Directorate General of Estate Crops (DGE). The
plantations are maintained by the smallholders until they start bearing and then turned over
to them. However, these are intensive efforts and there are only limited opportunities for
the majority of smallholders to participate.
Proposed Developments
7.        Since coconuts are an important integral part of the farming systems in the
project areas, are well adapted to swamp conditions, and are an important part of the
settlers' cash income, measures would be introduced to improve the yield, quality and
production of coconuts in the project schemes. Emphasis would be on the establishment
of pure stands on soils that are less suitable for rice and secondary food-crop production.
However, smallholders in mixed cropping areas would also be provided with extension
and seed nuts of high yielding hybrid varieties.
8.        To ensure the establishment of "economic units" for collection, processing and
marketing of coconuts (and also to counteract a certain resentment of local smallholders
outside the schemes for not being given the same oppormnity to participate as settlers
within the schemes), suitable areas both inside and outside the swamp schemes would be
included. DGE would be responsible for implementing the component through PMUs
using the same approach as under the ongoing TSCDP. The PMU approach has been
effective in building a strong management and extension services and in financing
agricultural inputs, enabling both transmigrants and non-transmigrant smallholders to
establish good quality tree crops on their land.
9.        Although drains would be established by the PMU in developing land for
coconuts, most of the tree crop development would be carried out independently from the
physical works program under the project. A total of 12,500 ha, of which about 4,200
ha would be within the project schemes and 8,300 ha in land adjoining the schemes, would
be planted with high yielding hybrid varieties. Approximately 8,000 smallholders would
be involved and they would manage their plantations using improved agronomic practices
(Table 1).
10.       As in TCSDP, smallholders would receive a grant to cover all expenditures
for the first year's establishment of the trees. They would be responsible for the
maintenance of the stand from the second year onwards until bearing, using commercial
credit if necessary. To enable smallholders to obtain credit, BPN would issue land iles
to those who do not already possess them, particularly local farmers outside the project



- 62 -                      ANNEX 6
schemes, one year prior to planting, in accordance with the phasing as shown in Table 2.
BPN would furnish the Bank with a detailed implementation plan for titling, which would
also include neighboring farmers not participating in the coconut planting scheme, before
negotiations.
11.       To implement the program a Project Manager's Office would be established
in DGE Head Office with a small administrative staff. Liaison Offices would be
established at provincial level and existing PMUs would be strengthened or new PMUs
established at Rantau Rasau in Jambi, Kubu in West Kalimantan, and Sei Salak II in Riau,
with PMU sub-units at four locations in Jambi, four in West Kalimantan and three in Riau.
The organization would require a total of 191 staff. The project would finance civil works
for establishing facilities; vehicles and transport costs; equipment and materials, training
and TA; and operational costs.
12.       Coconut farmers would be selected in accordance with the criteria listed in
Attachment 1. They would be supplied with selected polybagged seedlings, produced in
project nurseries, and would receive fertilizers and other necessary inputs, as well as
advice from specialized extension staff. The hybrids would be selected to provide good
yield potential and resistance to Phyopthora disease. Farmers in adjoining mixed rice-
coconut areas would also receive improved hybrid seed-nuts and specialized extension.
Under recommended field management practices, yields would be expected to be in the
range of 3 to 4 tons of copra equivalent at a moisture content of 15 percent. Coconuts
would provide the farmers with a year-round income since there is unsatisfied demand for
coconut products at all the project sites where they would be grown. Depending on their
location and circumstances, farmers would sell whole nuts or fresh coconut meat, or
produce copra or coconut sugar. The first three have a low demand for labor but an
attractive return per day of work, while sugar production is labor intensive and gives a
high income. To enhance their income generation capacity, women would be trained by
PMUs in the manufacture of coconut sugar and oil.
13.       Proposed participant farmers in each PMU/sub-unit are given in Table 1. A
total of about 7,950 farmers are likely to benefit; of these 3,020 would be in Jambi, 1,810
in Riau, and 3,120 in West Kalimantan. Phasing of planting of coconut seedlings is given
in Table 2.



- 63 -                      ANNEX6
EDNESIA
INTEGRATED SWA PS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CRIE     FOR SCREENNG OF COCONUT FARMUS
Selected Applicants Would:
(a)       be willing to sign a Smallholder Credit Agreement;
(b)       own the land to be developed, with clear ownership status;
(c)       belong to the low-income group of farmers;
(d)       be bona fide farmers, with available family labor of at least two members;
(e)       be willing to abide by all the Project regulations and guidelines, and to
maintain cultivation standards established by the project;
(t)       be physically fit and between 18 and 45 years of age at the time of acceptn
as participant, or with legal heir(s) if over 45 years of age; and
(g)       reside permanently within the Project area.
Responsibility for verifying all items other than (a) and (e), would rest with
the Provincial Govemment officials, in particular, the village and sub-village chiefs in
consultation with the Village Development Committee (LKMD). These officials would
also ensure that preference is given to the poorer of the eligible participants.
The Smallholder Credit Agreement is to be signed by both spouses, where
available.
Women would be fully eligible to participate.



- 64 -                       ANNEX 6
Table 1
llESGRATED SW                   DEVELOP    PROJECT
ftoPOSM PARCIPAU FOIR CocoNur DEVELOPMENr
Province            Scheme Pan         Local Farms         J91a
PMU/sub-unit        Ha.   No. of      Ha    No. of       Ha   No. of
Farmers           Farmers             Farmers
IAmbi
Rlantau Rasau
- RanMau Rsau         965    625        235    140        1,200    765
- Puding             1,000    585                         1,000    585
- Nipah Panjaqg                        1,800   1,145      1,800   1,145
- Dendaqg             290    145        710    380        1,000    525
Total Jambi         2,255   1,355      2,745   1,665      5,000   3,020
IWest Kaln
-Kubu                 800    800        400    269        1,200   1,069
- Selamat                              1,300    680       1,300    680
- Serua i                              1,100    550       1,100    550
- Padang Tikar                         1,400    820       1,400    820
Toud West Kal.        800    800       4,200  2,319       5,000  3,119
Sei Sialk
-Tempuling            600    600        200    100          800    700
-Sei Salak                              800    410          800    410
-Delta Reteh          S00    500        400    200          900    700
Tota Riau            1,100  1,100      1,400    710       2,500   1,810
Grand Total         4,155  3,255       8,345  4,694       12,500  7,949



-65 -                      ANNEX 6
Table 2
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWA1[ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANTG PMAING FOR COCONUT DEVELOPENT
(in ha)
Province                     Year of Plantine
PMU/sub-unit
Y1    Y2      Y3       Y4
Rana Ra
- Rantau Rasau        200   400      400       200            1,200
- Puding              200    300     300       200            1,000
- Nipah Panjang       200    600     600       400            1,800
- Dendang             200   300      300       200            1,000
Total Jamnbi          800  1,600    1,600     1,000           5,000
LUW
- Kubu                300    300    300        300            1,200
- Selamat             300    400    400        200            1,300
- Seruat II           200    400    300        200            1,100
- Padang Tikar        200    500    500        200            1,400
Total West Kal.     1,000   1,600   1,500       900           5,000
Sei Salak II
- Tempuling           200    300    300         -               800
- Sei Salak           200    300    300         -               800
- Delta Reteh         300    300    300         -               900
Total Riau            700    900    900         -              2,500
Grand Total         2,500,4,        40
|Grand Total         2,500   4100   4,000       1,900          12,500



-66-                           ANNEX 7
UNDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWA   DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
POABLE WATER SUPPLY
Preseut Sitouaon
1.         Ihe existing potable water supply facilities in the Jambi and Riau project areas
are critically deficient. Although there is potental for deep groundwater development,
high conten in sulfates and chlorides (Jambi) and iron (Riau) mak  treatment necessary.
The situation in West Kalimantan is worse as there is no potentW for deep groundwater
development while the surface water (river and canal) and shallow groundwater in the
schemes located near the sea suffer from salt intrusion in the dry season.
2.         Rainwater is the main source of potable water presentiy used by the people
during the rainy season. Rainwater is collected from the roofs of the houses but since
there are no gutters and storage fcilities, no water is available during the dry season. The
people then have to rely on allow groundwater or canal water (Jambi and Riau) which
often is polluted and high in orgaic matter contents. It causes health problems even
although they boil it a few minutes. In cridcal dry periods, farmers in the West Kaimantan
schemes sometimes have to buy water from people living near the mountains or they may
be supplied from the Pontianak water supply system.
Proposed Development
3.         The project would support: (a) potable waer supply facilities for about
27,000 households and 55 village centers; (b) geo-hydrological surveys and test borings
in Jambi province, similar to the program implemented in Riau under the Second Swamps
Development Project (2431-IND); (c) evaluation of river and canal water qualty to
detneine the potential for use after treatment; and (d) training of local masons and
beneficiaries in the construction and O&M of household and village water supply facilities.
4.        In order to reduce the cost of the individual household water supply systems,
their design capacity has been based on the use for drinking and cooking purposes only.
For other domestic requirements bhing and washing) the people would continue to use
river and canal water. Based on this hypothesis, the daily requirement of potable water
would be 50 liters per day for a family of five. To meet this design standard, rainwater
storage tanks with a capacity of about 2.5 mn would be required. Because of severe
limtations on suitable surface water during the dry season, the capaciy of the tanks in
West Kalim         would be larger to ensure year-round availability of potable water.
5.         The design of the rainwater system would be based on: (a) the type and
price of locally available materials; and (b) the willingness of the beneficiaries to



-67-                                ANNEX 7
participate in and contribute to the program. Unless other viable alternatives can be found,
ferrocement water storage tanks would be favored over the less durable bamboocement and
expensive fiberglass tanks. The construction method would be simple and the systems
would be implemented by local masons with labor provided by the beneficiaries. The
construction cost of the storage tanks would differ from place to place and mainly depend
on the availability of materials and the adopted implementation approach. For appraisal
purposes, the cost of the individual household water supply systems has been estimated at
Rp 500,000. A detailed cost estimate for a 2.5 m3 ferrocement tank is given below.
Table 1: COST OF A 2.5 M3 FtRROCEmENT TANK La
No.               Type of Maerial              Unit    Quantity    Unit      cost
Price    (Rp)
(Rp)
Dimension: Diam. 1.60 m; Height 1.35 m
Wall thickness: 3 cm
1.    Sand for landfill 1.7 m x l.7 m x O.2 m              0.6  10,000    6,000
2.    Concrete sand                           s            0.5  30,000   15,000
3.    Iron bar diam. 6 mm (15 cm x 1S cm)     it            17   3,000    51,000
4.    Iron string                             kg             2    2,500    5,000
5.    Chicken wire                            m             13   3,000    39,000
6.    Cement                                  bags           8    8,000    64,000
7.    Wooden struts for scaffolding           pcs           10   2,000    2,000
(usage: 10 tanks)
8.    Nails                                   kg           0.5   1,500      750
9.    Welded iron mould (usage SO tnks)       pcs            1   65,000    1,300
10.    Plywood 2.40 x 1.2 m n  4 mm           pcs            3   12,500    3,750
(usage: 10 tanks)
(bamboo mat could be used if available)
11.    Labor                                  md             12   3,500    42,000
12.    Skilled labor                          mnd            4    7,500    30,000
13.    PVC Gutter                             in             16   5,000    80,000
14.    PVC Downspout                          m              5    2,500    12,500
15.    Water/drain tap                        pcs            2    5,000    10
Total                              362,300
25% for general cost and overhead                                   90
Total (rounded)          4_3_Q_
La Based on CARE model.
6.          In areas where river and canal water contain organic nmer a promisig
option for providing clean water would be a simple individual household water treatment
unit developed by the Agency for Research and Development of the Ministry of Public
Works. The advantage of this option is that it uses cheap local materials and can be easily
constructed. Its main elements are a local coagulant which is clay (halotricite) and a filter
consisting of local sand with a high grade of quartz, calcium and magnesium and of 0.3
to 1.2 mm in diameter. The cost of the individual household water treatment unit is
estmated at Rp 250,000.



-68 -                         ANNEX 7
7.        In addition to the individual household supply, provisions would be made
under the project to provide potable water at central locations (village centers, health
clinics and schools) for communal use. This would ensure normal year-round supply at
such locations as well as provide emergency drinking water supply for the surrounding
area in case of extreme drought. Depending on the outcome of geo-hydrological
investigations, both groundwater and surface water would be considered as sources of
supply. Deep tubewelis and water treatment plants would be planned accordingly. In
West Kalimantan province no suitable water resources are available for this purpose; here
the project scope would be limited to the rainwater option only (para 4).
8.         nplemenation of the potable water supply component would follow the
Community Management approach which is an important part of the development process.
People's awareness would be the focal point of the program and beneficiaries would be
involved in the whole development cycle from preparation and construction to O&M of
the systems. This approach would ensure project sustainability by stimulating the
beneficiaries to be independent in the O&M of the water supply systems.
9.        The potable water supply component would be implemented by DOS with
technical support from Cipta Karya and NGOs. The main input of Cipta Karya would be
to recommend design criteria for different conditions, whereby the choice of materials and
systems would be geared towards low cost solutions. NGOs would assist in the
construction and O&M of the systems. Construction of the individual household systems
would preferably be done by properly trained local masons with the assistance of the
beneficiaries. Village center systems would mainly be implemented by DOS on contract.
As a prereqsite for sustainable O&M, beneficiaries would contribute at least 10 percent
in cash or kind to the construction costs and pay the cost of O&M of the systems to ensure
their sustainable use.
10.       O&M of the individual household systems would be the responsibility of the
families involved. O&M of the village center systems would need technical support from
Cipta Karya and possibly NGOs familiar with water supply systems. O&M cost sharing
arrangements would be worked out once the type of system has been established.
11.       Training plays an important role in the implementation and O&M  of
comnmnity based water supply. Men and women would be mobilized to receive
appropriate training to become technicians capable of implementing and operating the
systems. Local technicians must be employed during construction in order to have the
expertise available locally if repair is needed later on. This also would reduce the cost.
Training in management of daily water use is required as otherwise the water tanks would
generally be empty before the end of the dry season, which is unpredictable. In addition,
training is needed in the O&M of water treaunent plants. PKK and Dinas KES (Health)
activities would cover the training of women in the correct treatment and use of the water
as well as hygiene and sanitation.



- 69 -                        ANNEX 8
E4OESU
INTEGRATED SWAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COASrAL ZONE LAND USE MANAGEMENT
A.      AK NATIONAL PARK - INTEGRATED BUFF   ZONE MANAGEMENT
In trodc
1.        The Government of Indonesia (GOI) and Government of Jambi Province
propose to strengthen the management and protection of the recently established Berbak
National Park, within Jambi Province. To this end, the Provincial government proposes
to implement a project which would: (a) strengthen the managernent of the Park;
(b) improve social and economic conditions in villages surrounding the Park; and,
(c) assist BAPPEDA, Jambi in its on-going spatial planning activities in connection with
the coastal parts of the Province. These draft TOR specify the required consultancy
services to assist in implemeraion of the program.
2.        The project concept was developed by BAPPEDA Jambi, in consultation with
a mnber of provincial agencies, most notably the Provincial Office of the Directorate
General for Forest Protection and Nature Conservation (Sub-Balai Konservasi Sumber
Daya Alam - SBKSDA), which is directly responsible for management of Berbak National
Park. BAPPEDA Jambi was assisted in preparation of the project proposal by technical
experts from the Asian Wetland Bureau, Bogor.
3.        The project forms part of a larger project, entitled Integrated Swamps
Development Project (ISDP), which is being joindy finded by the GOI and the World
Bank. ISDP involves a range of investments in existing swamp development schemes in
the Provinces of Jambi, Riau and West Kalimantan. Some of the schemes in Jambi
Province are located near Berbak National Park, although separated from it by the Batang
Hari River. Overall responsibility for implementation of ISDP lies with the Directorate
of Swamps within the DG Water Resources Development of the Ministry of Public Works.
Procuement of consultancy services for the Berbak National Park Management component
wiU be the responsibility of the DG of Forest Protection and Nature Conservation
(Perlindungan Hutan dan Pelestarian Alam - PHPA) within the Ministry of Forests. Due
to the cr-sectoral nature of activities proposed within the Berbak National Park
Management component, overall coordination at the Provincial level will be the
responsibility of BAPPEDA Jambi.



- 70 -                         ANNEX 8
Background
4.         Berbak National Park is located on the eastern coastal plain of Jambi
Province, in Central Sumata. It is the most extensive protected swamp forest in S.E.
Asia, containing over 150,000 ha of pristine freshwater swvamp forest and peat swamp
forest. The area has long been recognized as a significant nature conservation resource.
In 1935, the Dutch Colonial Government designated a large part of Berbak as a wildlife
reserve. In 1991, the GOI nominated Berbak for inclusion in the RAMSAR Convention,
which provides for protection of wetlands of international importance. Indonesia is the
first ASEAN nation to protect an area under RAMSAR. In February, 1992, Decree
No.285 KPIS-II of the Minister for Forests declared an area of 162,700 ha of the Berbak
area to be a National Park.
5.         Park Management. Management of the National Park is the responsibility
of the DG PHPA which is represented in Jambi by the SBKSDA. SBKSDA is located
administratively within the Regional Forestry office (Kanwil Kehutanan). SBKSDA is
represented locally in the Berbak area (i.e. in Tanjung Jabung Regency) by a Sub-Section
(SSKSDA) which is located in the town of Nipah Panjang, near the mouth of the Berbak
River. With the change of status from wildlife reserve to National Park, it is expected that
n the near future, management responsibility at the local level will be taken over by a
National Park Office.
6.        The Park management presently suffers from a number of constraints to its
effectiveness including:  (a) shortage of staff; (b) inadequate office facilities and
distribution of offices and outstations (Resorts); (c) inadequate land and water transport
facilities; and, (d) inadequate field and communications equipment. The main management
problems being faced include: (i) inadequate cadastral and physical definition of the Park
boundaries; (ii) illegal exploitation of forest products and poaching of animals within the
Park; (iii) illegal setlements within the Park; and, (iv) conflicts with logging activities in
some adjacent forest concession areas.
7.        Role of the Provincial Government. For several years, the Government of
Jambi Province, through the Provincial Planning Agency (BAPPEDA), has been
coordinating efforts to rationalize land use planning and management in the coastal areas
of the Province. As part of the associated activities, the Province has compiled an
environmental profile of the coastal zone and prepared a draft Spatial Plan of the same
area which has the objective of balancing competing demands for forestry and agricultural
development and for nature conservation. The Government has also commissioned
economic studies to evaluate the potetitial economic effects of growth and development in
the nearby Johor-Riau-Singapore growth triangle. On the basis of these activities, the
Government has identified nature conservation and associated activities, such as tourism,
as worthwhile activities to be supported as part of overall development planning for the
Province. Berbak National Park was seen as playing a central role in nature conservation
activities because of its international significance.
8.        In 1992, BAPPEDA Jambi prepared a draft proposal for an investment
program to strengthen management and protection of the Park for consideration for



- 71-                         ANNEX S
funding by the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank. The program involved
investments h social and economic development of a series of villages surundi  the
Park, with the objective of creatng an economically and socially stable buffer zone
between stictly conservation land uses witiin the Park, and extensively commercial land
uses beyond the villages. This plan was accepted in principle but dte Govenment was
requested to do additional work on project design. This work was done, in association
with te Asian Wetand Bureau, and the resulting plan was outlined in a comprehensive
project preparation report. This report formed the basis of these TOR although the scope
of work proposed has been reduced to lower costs.
rojec Components
9.        The project as proposed by BAPPEDA-Jambi has three main activities:
(a)  strengthening Park Mnement;
(b)  socio-econoinc development in areas surrounding the Park; and,
(c)  further development of coastal zone and weand planning and management
capability within the BAPPEDA.
10.          theing Park Management. The activities proposed include:
(a)  improving the physical definition of the Park boundaries by cadastral survey
and insallaion of durable (plastic) markers and signs to clearly identify the
boundary;
(b)  officially defining Buffer Zoras around the Park thrugh inter-departmenal
consultation and negotiation with local timber concessionaires and other
relevant parties;
(c)  upgrading office and transport facilities in the SSKSDA, including provision
of some simple tourist facilities in or near the Park;
(d)  staff development and training including patrolling techniques, wildlife
observation, record-keeping, etc.; and
(e)  completion of the Berbak National Park Management Plan, presendy in draft
form.
11.       Sodo-Economlc Development. Most of the activities in this component were
formulaed through discussions between relevant Provincial agencies and local villagers.
Slgnct  local involvement Is seen as essendal to success. The proposed activities
include:
(a)  Park boundary marking using useful plants (e.g. bamboo). Previous analysis
has shown that many local people go into the Park to extract various plant



-72 -                          ANNEX 8
resources of value to them. The idea of this component is to plant some of
these resources along the boundary so that villagers will not have to go into
the Park;
(b)  feasibility/pilot studies of various small-scale industries using locally
occurring species (e.g. frog husbandry);
(c) rehabilitation of coastal land on the eastern boundaries of the Park through
mangrove planting;
(d)  various agricultural developments in villages surrounding the Park. The main
activity would be establishment of horticultural developments, which villagers
have identified as an opportuity; and
(e) land titling/certification of about 6,000 ha. of land around the Park to
increase the security of tenure of local people.
12.       Panning Assistance to DAPPEDA. 'his involves contnuation of past
technical assistance to BAPPEDA to further develop coastal land use planning capability.
Project Organization and Management
13.       At the Central Goverunent level, the overall responsibility for the
implementation of the project would be with the Ministry of Forestry, through the DG
PHPA. As the project entails both National Park Management as well as socio-economic
development aspects, within BAPPENAS' two divisions would be involved in overall
supervision, i.e., the Bureau Regional Development Sumatra, and the Bureau Natural
Resources Management.
14.       At the Provincial level, the Govemor is responsible for interdepartmentl
coordination through BAPPEDA. Responsibility for National Park Management falls
under the Regional Forestry Office (Kanwil Kehutanan), through the SBKSDA and, in the
Tanjung Jabung Regency, a SSKSDA. Because of the integrated character of the Project,
overall Project Management and Coordination would be the responsibility of BAPPEDA,
which would chair a Project Steering Committee consisting of all major sectoral agencies
involved in the implementation aspects of the project, in particular, Forestry (including
SBKSDA), Agriculture, BPN, and Public Works.
Co _       Sevie Requhments
1S.       Both international and national consultants would be required to assist in
implementation of various aspects of the National Park Management and assist BAPPEDA
develop its planning and management capability. The socio-economic development
activities can be implemented mainly by staff of the relevant local line agencies of the
Minities of Agriculture, Forestry and BPN. Some short term, local technical assistance
would be required for aspects such as engineering designs and/or feasibility studies.



- 73 -                        ANNEX 8
16.       The required consultants positions are:
e Team Leader/National Park Management Specialist    36 person months
e Traing/Community Development Specialist            20 person months
56
National
* Foresters                                          34 person months
* Miscellaneous local consultants                     9 person months
* Architect                                           3 person monhis
46
17.       Draft Terms of Reference of the long-term technical experts, and a description
of feir required qualifications, are given in the Attachment to this Annex.
B. EN0ONMmrAL PRoms
Bacgound
18.       The objective of this component is to extend to West Kalimantan, technical
assistance on coast land use planning and management. A similar study already has been
successflly undertaken in Jambi and another study is currently underway in Riau with
assistance from UNDP.
19.       In 1990/91, the Asian Wetland Bureau supplied a resident coastal land use
management specialist to BAPPEDA - Jambi to assist in preparation of a coastal resources
inventory. Ibis resuked in publication of a report on coastal wetand resources in the
Province and generated considerable interest within the Provincial Government in spatial
planning for the coastal zone. After completion of the technical assistance, BAPPEDA -
Jambi continued the work that had been stared, leading to production of a spatial plan for
the coastl zone. They also commissioned supplementary economic studies by  satitut
Pertanin, Bogor to evaluate the implications of growth in the Johor-Riau-Singapore
growth triangle on Jambi Province in general, and the coastal zone in particular. This
experience indicates that strategic technical assistance to promote the concept of coastal
zone management within a Provincial planming agency can create a sustainable interest in
the subject extending beyond completion of the technical assistance.
Poect Description
20.       Tbe component provides for a three-person consultants team to be fielded in
West Kalimantan over an elapsed time of 12 months. The team would comprise an
expatae Team Leader/Environmental Planner, a local Senior Conservation Specialist and
a local Assistant Planner. Field surveyors from relevant Provincial Government agencies



- 74-                          ANNEX 8
would be associated with the consultants team for carrying out the technical aspects of te
work.
21.       The main objectives are:
(a)  to create in the Province a semi-permanent forum  for inter-agency
cooperation on environmentally sound planning and development of wetland
areas;
(b)  create awareness on environmental aspects of coastal development;
(c)  strengthen the environmental planning process for wetland areas; and,
(d)  establish a cross-sectoral regional development policy for wetland areas.
22.        The main tasks are:
(a) establish a working organization at the Provincial level to provide a planning
forum;
(b) identify a study area comprising contiguous kecamatans covering as much of
the coastal wetlands resource as is practicable;
(c)  collate and analyze relevant environmental and social data covering the study
area;
(d)  undertake supplementary data collection and analysis as required;
(e)  identify opporunities for coastal land use and conservation;
(f) develop a strategy for sustainable use of natural resources in the area; and
(g)  prepare an Environmental Profile of the Wetland Area to provide a reference
document for relevant planning and land management agencies.
Consultants Services Requirements
23.        The team would comprise three persons as follows:
(a)  Team Leader (international) - 12 month assignment. Post-graduate degree
in Natural Resources Management or a related field plus a minimum of ten
years relevant professional experience of which a substnial proportion
should have been in developing countries, preferably Indonesia. The Team
Leader will be fluent in English and desirably also fluent in wriuten and
spoken Indonesian. The Team Leader will be resident in Pontdanak for the
duration of the project;



- 75 -                        ANNEX 8
(b)  Senior Environmental Conservation  ag      t Spedalist (nonal) -
12 month assignment.  Post graduate degree in Natural Resources
Management or a related field (e.g. plant ecology) with at least five, and
preferably ten years experience in related fields witiin Indonesia. Prior
expeience in wnservaion and management of wedand ecologies would be
highly desirable; and
(c)  lAnd Use Specalst (natonal) - 12 month assignment. Graduate degree in
Social geography, Resource Economics or Agronomy with a minimum of two
years experience in Indonesia.



- 76 -                       ANNEX 8
Att acshmenl t
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECF
BERBAK NAnONAL PARK INTEGRATED BuFFER ZoNE MANAGEmew
Draft Terms of Reference and Qualifications
for Long-Term Technical Specialists
Company Badckground and Experience
1.        The company(ies) and/or organization(s) (hereafter, company) tendering for
the work, will provide the long-term staff and the short-term consultants. The company
should have a proven record in management of technical assistance projects with
experience of working and operating in Indonesia.
2.        The company should also have a permanent, established local office to assist
with procurement, travel arrangements, and provide local support as required for the
efficient and effective execution of the project.
3.        The company should have major experience in wetland conservation projects
and be able to demonstrate that they have the capability to provide technical support and
advise Government field staff working on the project. The company should preferably be
able to show prior involvement in international nature conservation and wetland
conservation and should be well acquainted with the global network of wetland
conservation oriented organizations and programs, in particular the RAMSAR Bureau of
the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance.
4.        The company must be capable of organizing and delivering training courses
as provided for in the project design including:
(a) specialized short training courses in wetland conservation management;
(b)  field procedures for national park rangers including map reading, tracking,
wildlife observation and recording, plant and animal identification; and
(c)  study tours and in-service training for Indonesian counterpart staff.
Personnel Requirements
5.        The assignment details, proposed terms of reference and professional
qualifications/experience requirements for each long term position are as follows:



- 77 -                       ANNEX 8
Attachment
A.        Team Leader/National Park Management Specialist:
Duty station - Jambi and Nipah Panjang
Qualifications - MSc or higher degree in natural sciences or equivalent
professional working experience. At least 10 years experience in land-use planning/spatial
planning and wetland/coastal resource management. Experience in SE Asia of particular
relevEaice. Experience in project management/administration, particularly in Indonesia.
Fluent in English and proficient in Indonesian.
Terms of Reference - the Team Leader will be responsible for the overall
managerial, scientific, and technical aspects of the project. In collaboration with PHPA
and others, implement the activities as oudined in the project proposal. Advise PHPA on
the ecological conditions in the National Park and its surroundings, environmental
management needs, and opportunities for participation of the local communities in
conservation oriented activities. Specific tasks will include:
As Team Leader:
(a)  assist BAPPEDA-Jambi in management and supervision of the project, and
be responsible for the scientific, technical, and financial aspects;
(b)  coordinate and manage all consultancy staff and ensure effective supervision
of counterpart staff;
(c)  develop detailed workplans for all activities in conjunction with other project
staff and in close cooperation and consultation with the relevant Indonesian
Govermment agencies;
(d)  be responsible for the coordination and organization of workshops and
training programs as described in the project proposal;
As Park Management Specialist:
(e)  development of a detailed Management Plan for the Berbak National Park;
(f)  contribute to the planned workshop entitled "Towards compatibility of Berbak
National Park management and community development";
(g)  assist in the preparation of five-year forward plans and annual budgets for the
National Park, and improve administration of the National Park offices;
(h) coordinate and supervise infrastructure improvements, including offices,
guest-houses and transport facilities of the National Park;



- 78 -                       ANNEX 8
Attachment
(i)  actively guide and speed-up processing of recommendations regarding
extensions to the National Park, or any other relevant recommendations
related to the National Park's management;
(I)  assist in resolving disputes on the location of National Park boundaries; and
(k)  develop with PHPA staff an intensive patrolling program of the National
Park, and assist in the supervision of its implementation and draw up
guidelines for law-enforcement and appropriate law-enforcement techniques.
B.        Trainig/Community Development Spedalist
Duty station - Jambi
Qualifcations - MSc or higher degree in communication/information science
and/or anthropology/social sciences. Knowledge of tropical agriculture/forestry systems
and at least 5 years experience in natural resources projects (preferably in Indonesia or SE
Asia). Fluency in English, and proficiency in Indonesian language is essential. (Note:
The position may require two people, one with major experience in the field of training,
the other in the field of community development.)
Terms of Reference - In collaboration with BAPPEDA, PHPA, and others
be responsible for the implementation of the activities as outlined in the project proposal.
Assist on identification of training and awareness needs pertaining to natural resources
management, forestry and agricultural practices in the Berbak National Park and its
surroundings. Assist in the institutional strengthening aspects of the project in relation to
the social and administrative structures of the villages surrounding the National Park
Specific duties will include:
(a)  development and implementation of an information and extension program
about the importance of the Berbak National Park catered to the local
communities, teachers, local and provincial government staff and officials;
(b) identify training needs and possibilities for PHPA staff, BAPPEDA staff, etc.
and develop a training program and implement training activities;
(c)  assist in design of notice/sign boards to be placed at all important locations
of access to the National Park;
(d)  assist in implementation of all proposed activities which are related to the
socio-economic development activities;
(e)  organize community meetings to increase community awareness regarding the
National Park;
(f)  assist in the design of a detailed plan for land-tiding and certification in the
National Park buffer zones, and assist in the initial phases of implementaton;



- 79 -                        ANNEX 8
Attachment
(g) assist in the identification of the most appropriate location of buffer zone
areas in the north-west of the National Park, and provide advise on posible
needs for redefinition or reflning of boundary location of present proposed
buffer zone areas in the east and north of the National Park.



-80-                           ANNEX 9
INEGRATED SWAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSULTAN SERVICES
This Annex describes the proposed responsibilities and qualifications for the
consultants to be employed under the project, except for the Coastal Zone Land Use
Management component, which is in Annex 8. Table 1, showing person months and
estimated cost for all experts included in this consultancy, is attached at the end of this
Annex.
A. WORK PLANNNG, COORDINATION AND MONITORING
1.   Central Project Team Leader/Institutional Expert (1 international)
Specialist with at least 15 years of experience in implementing integrated rural
development projects, with strong background in management and planning. The specialist
would have led a consultancy team in Indonesia and have extensive experience of
Indonesia, preferably of schemes similar to those under the project. He would also have
extensive experience of Indonesian institutions involved in (irrigated) agricultural
development and would have to operate at senior level of government.  Main
responsibilities of the central project team leader would be: (a) to have overall
responsibility for the consulting services and management of the consultant's central and
provincial teams; (b) ensure, at central level, full coordination and close cooperation
between the consultant and Government agencies for the smooth implementation of the
project; (c) assist in the preparation of a detailed schedule for each project year for all
activities to be undertaken by the agencies involved in ISDP; (d) assist in the preparation,
by September of each year, of cost estimates associated with the project activities of the
annual work plan (AWP), complete with breakdown per government department and per
province; and (e) assist in the preparation, by September 30 of each year, and in
consultation with all executing agencies, of a detailed realistic integrated AWP and budget
request for each project year including the activities required for the procurement of
contracts for services, supplies and civil works, and if, coordinate monitoring of project
progress and the preparation of progress reports.
2.   Deputy Central Project Team Leader (I national)
Specialist with at least 12 years oe :xperience in implementing integrated rural
development projects, with strong background in management and planning. The specialist
would have led a consultancy team in rural development, preferably on projects similar to
ISDP. He would also have extensive experience of Indonesian institutions involved in
(irrigated) agricultural development. Main responsibilities of the deputy central project
team leader would be: (a) to assist the central project team leader in all aspects of
management including project monitoring and progress reporting; (b) ensure, at central



- 81-                          ANNEX 9
level, full coordination and close cooperation between the consultant and Government
agencies for the smooth implementation of the project; (c) closely work with the agencies
involved in the preparation of a detailed schedule for each project year for all activities to
be undertaken; (d) assist in the preparation, by September of each year, of cost estimates
associated with the project activities of the AWP, complete with breakdown per
government departnent and per province; and (e) assist in the preparation, by December
of each year, and in consultation with all involved executing agencies a detailed realistic
integrated AWP and budget request for each project year including the activities required
for the procurement of contracts for services, supplies and civil works.
3.   Provincial Project Team Leader/Insitutional Expert (2 international)
Specialists with at least 10 years of experience in coordinating and
implementing integrated swamp development projects, with strong background in
management and planning. Ihe specialists would have extensive experience of Indonesia,
preferably of schemes similar to those under the project. Main responsibilities of the
provincial project team leaders would be: (a) to have overall responsibility for the
consulting services and management of the consultant's provincial teams; (b) ensure, at
provincial level, full coordination and close cooperation between the consultant and
provincial agencies for the smooth implementation of the project; (c) assist in the
preparation of a detailed schedule for each project year for all activities to be undertaken
by the provincial agencies involved in ISDP; (d) assist in the preparation, by August of
each year, of cost estimates associated with the project activities of the AWP; (e) assist in
the preparation, by November of each year, and in consultation with provincial agencies
involved, of a detailed realistic integrated AWP and budget request for each project year
including the activities required for the procurement of contracts for services, supplies and
civil works; and (f) assist where necessary, the agencies with the implementation of their
work plans.
4.   Deputy Provincial Project Team Leader (3 national)
Specialists with at least 8 years of experience in coordinating and
implementing integrated swamp development projects, with strong background in
management and planning. The specialists would have extensive experience of Indonesia,
preferably of projects similar to ISDP. Main responsibilities of the deputy provincial
project team leaders would be: (a) to assist the provincial project team leader on all aspects
of the consultant services including project monitoring and progress reporting; b) ensure,
at provincial level, full coordination and close cooperation between the consultant and
provincial agencies for the smooth implementation of the project; (c) assist in the
preparation of a detailed schedule for each project year for all activities to be undertaken
by the provincial agencies involved in ISDP; (d) assist in the preparation, by August of
each year, of cost estimates associated with the project activities of the AWP; (e) assist in
the preparation, by November of each year, and in consultation with provincial agencies
involved, of a detailed realistic integrated AWP and budget request for each project year
including the activities required for the procurement of contracts for services, supplies and
civil works; and (f) assist where necessary, the agencies with the implementation of their
work plans.



- 82 -                         ANNEX 9
5. Monitoring and Evaluation Expert (1 international)
Specialist, preferably an agricultural economist, with at least 10 years of
experience in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of projects in agriculture, irrigation or
area development. The specialist would have a good, up-to-date working knowledge of
relevant computer software applications. The specialist's main responsibility would be to
assist the National Project Secretariat and the three Bappedas with (a) preparation of
operational guidelines for the implementation of an agreed M&E system in the project
swamp schemes; (b) planning and directing of implementation of M&E during the first
project year; (c) preparation of the base-line M&E report for the first year; and (d)
assistance to the Bappedas for their M&E activities during the following years and review
of their M&E reports.
6. Monitoring and Evaluation Expert (1 national)
Specialist preferably an agricultural economist, with at least 8 years of
experience in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of projects in agriculture, irrigation, or
area development. The specialist would have a good up-to-date working knowledge of
relevant computer software applications. The specialist would work together with the
international M&E experts in assisting the National Project Secretariat and the three
Bappedas, as specified above.
B. Ci    WORKS
1.   Design Specalist (1 international)
Engineer with at least 10 years of experience in the design and construction
of hydraulic infrastructure preferably in tidal and non-tidal swamp development projects.
He would have special knowledge of the hydrological aspects of water management to
ensure optimal water control for agriculture. He would, based on the areas' hydro-
topography, decide whether the "wet or dry" water management option would be applied
in each scheme, or part of it. The first option would involve drainage to 0.40 to 0.60 m
depth so that the topsoil is leached by rainfall to create a favorable root zone. Ihe second
option would apply where tidal irrigation is feasible thus enhancing leaching of the top
soil. Main responsibilities of the design specialist would be to: (a) based on fte above,
review the conceptual basis on which the existing detailed scheme design was done and
evaluate in particular its economic viability; (b) assist in the preparation of TOR, and
Tender evaluation for detailed design works to be done by local furms; (c) review the
detailed design and adapt the existing detailed design to the modified/improved conceptual
design; and (d) review the Bill of Quantities and assist in the preparation of contract
packaging and Tender Documents.
2.   Design Spedalist (2 national)
Engineers with at least 8 years of experience in the design and construction
of hydraulic infrastructure in ddal and non-tidal swamp development projects. One



- 83 -                         ANNEX 9
engineer would have special knowledge of the hydrological aspects of water management
(wet and dry option) and one would have experience in the design calculation and
standardization of water control structures in swamp areas. He would also have
experience in the assessment of soil bearing capacity especially in swamps. Main
responsibilities of the design specialists would be to: a) evaluate, in consultation with the
village chief, extension workers and farmers living in the schemes concerned, the
conceptual basis on which the existing detailed design was done; b) review the detailed
design and adapt the existing detailed design to the modified/improved conceptual design;
and c) review the Bill of Quantities and Tender Documents.
3.   O&M Specialist (1 international)
Engineer with at least 10 years of experience in planning, design and
implementation of water resources and swamp development projects, including operation
and maintenance. Previous experience in Indonesia and knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia
preferred. The basic function of this position is to ensure optimum operation and
maintenance (O&M) in the rehabilitated schemes under changing hydro-topographic
conditions. Main responsibilities of the O&M specialist would be to assist PRIS staff
responsible for O&M to: (a) prepare operational guidelines for each scheme and
operational manuals for individual structure; (b) develop a consistent approach to O&M
procedures, budgeting and staffing; (c) strengthen the WUAs; and (d) implement (50)
water management unit pilot schemes at farm level.
4.   O&M Spedalist (3 national)
Engineer with at least 8 years of experience in operation and maintenance of
drainage systems and with background knowledge of improved procedures, water
management and maintenance. Must also be familiar with the work of Government O&M
Staff, their organization, job specifications and duties and with introduction of new
procedures and eventually training. Main responsibilities of the O&M specialist would be
to: (a) assist in the preparation of Tender and its evaluation; (b) assist in the preparation
of operational guidelines for each scheme and individual structure; (c) review budgeting
proposals made at section level for expenditure on O&M; (d) make recommendations on
staffing, facilities, organization and implementation of O&M; (e) assist in the organization
of field meetings with village chief, agriculture extension workers and field O&M staff;
(e) train the ulu-ulu in day-to-day operation at the teriary level; (f) assist PRIS staff in
developing or adjusting general O&M procedures and guidelines, and developing system
monitoring; and (g) assist in implementing pilot scheme water management systems at farm
level.
5.   Construction Engineer (1 international and 3 nadonal)
Engineers with at least 10 years of experience in technical and administrative
supervision of irrigation and drainage infrastructure construction including earthworks,
strucures, quantity calculations, quality control and preparation of tender docunents, and
contracts. Experience in implementation of swamp projects is essential for these posts.
Main responsibilities of the construction engineers would be to: (a) assist in the preparation
of Tender and its evaluation; (b) assist in supervision of construction including construction



- 84 -                         ANNEX 9
management, planning and scheduling; (c) assist in establishing the project supervision
Organization including technical administration; (d) assist in quality control including: (i)
selection of materials; (ii) soil moisture content and compaction; (iii) mixing, placing and
curing of concrete and reinforcement placement; (iv) pile foundations and other types of
foundation; (v) masonry placement; (vi) erection and installation of gates and other
mechanical and movable items; and (e) ensure the quality of any completed works or parts
of works through appropriate sampling and testing.  The internationally recruited
construction engineer would guide and supervise the locally recruited construction
engieers.
6.   Roads Engineer (1 national)
Engineer with at least 8 years of experience in the design and construction of
rural roads including appurtenant structures, jetties and navigation channels. Previous
experience in swamp development projects preferred. Main responsibilities of the roads
engineer would be to: (a) review the road designs and ensure that the criteria adopted are
adequate under unstable soil conditions; (b) assist in Tender preparation and its evaluation;
(c) supervise the quality of construction and ensure (on a daily basis) that the works are
constructed in accordance with the specifications. Su:h works would include: (a)
asphalting of single lane roads and motorcycle tracks; (b, mixing, placing and curing of
concrete and reinforcement placement; (c) pile foundations and other types of foundations;
(d) earthworks including selection of borrow pits, and ensuring optimum soil moisture
content and compaction.
7.   Water Supply Engineer (1 national)
Engineer with at least 8 years of experience working with community-level
drinking water and sanitation technologies. The basic function of this position is to ensure
excellence in the areas of water and sanitation technology introduced by the project. This
is primarily accomplished through (a) increasing the ability of project staff to help
select, construct, and maintain the most appropriate water and santation
systems, and (b) ensuring that the quality of these systems are sound.  Main
responsibilities of the water supply engineer would be to assist projectlNGO staff: (a) to
assess hydrological situations in communities; match the most appropriate and cost
effective water technologies to these situadons, and conduct cost estimates for different
technology options; (b) to assess geographical conditions and cultural beliefs and practices,
and select the most appropriate water technologies based on this information; (c) in fte
design and construction of innovative water supply technologies; (d) to ensure quality
control of water supply systems designed by the project; (e) to up-date, research, and
produce technical manuals related to the technologies being promoted by the project; (t)
to collect, analyze, and disseminate information to project staff about innovative and
creative  chnologies other organizations are applying; (g) ensure project guidelines
concerning commiees formation and negotiations are followed; and h) assist with
mantni  relationship with he government and NGO's at the central and local levels.



- 85 -                        ANNEX9
8.   Environmental Engineer (1 national)
Civil engineering graduates with minimum 5 years experience at least some
of which should be in construction management.  Main responsibilities of the
environmental engineers would be to: (a) implement the environmental management and
monitoring plan; (b) establish liaison between the project and relevant provincial agencies
and DGWRD's sub-directorate Ier-sectoral Coordination on Environmental Management
Matters; (c) ensure that environmental protection measures are included in construction
contract documentation as required and that compliance monitoring procedures are
observed; (d) agree and institute appropriate environmental monitoring procedures with
relevant Bappedas (BKLH) and sectoral agencies.
C. COmmUNiy AND AGRICuLuJRAL DEVELOPMENT
1.   Irrgation Agronomist (2 international and 3 national)
Suitably qualified specialist in agricultural research and development with at
least 10 years experience in soil and water management in tropical farming systms,
including preferably at least three years in tidal and non-tidal swamp conditions simila to
those found in the project area. The irrigation agronomist would liaise closely with AARD
and PU engineering staff and consultants in fornulating and introducing improved,
sustainable crop, soil and water management practices most appropriate to the particula
hydro-topography of the different schemes. Main responsibilities would be to: (a) review
existing crop, soil and water management practices and relate them to fanming system
development in project schemes; (b) assist in carrying out surveys to obtain data for
planning and implementation of improved crop, soil and water management-practices; (c)
assist in developing detailed annual work plans for research, extension, pest control and
seed production and distribution in project schemes; (d) assist in preparation and
implementation of detailed plans and work schedules for establishing FSTAs and hydrmlic
management units; (e) assist in conducting workshops and training of project staff in
planing and implementation of crop soil and water management activities in project
schemes; (t) assist in the design and implementation of a system to monitor and analyze
the results; (g) assist in drafting a soil and water management guide for use in the project
area; and (h) prepare and submit periodic progress reports and a final report.
2.   Agricultural Economist (1 national)
Suitably qualified specialist with at least 10 years experience in aspects of
agricultural marketing. The specialist would, in close collaboration with project staff,
assess marketing conditions in the project area and recommend actions to improve them.
Main responsibilities would be to: (a) review and analyze the existing markets and
opporunities for agricultural produce in the project schemes; (b) assist in the identification
and promotion of potentially new markets; (c) advise on the marketing prospects of
potentially new agricultural commodities suited to the project area; (d) assist in estabishing
procedures for improved quality control, processing, packaging and transportaton of
procedure from the project area; (e) assist with establishing liaison with the Departmen



- 86-                          ANNEX 9
of Trade on all marketing aspects; and (t) submit a final report with detailed findings and
recommendations.
3.   Community Organization and Training Specialist (3 national)
Suitably qualified specialist with at least 10 years experience in rural
sociology, awareness creation, community development and extension. The specialists
would, in close collaboration with AARD research staff, DGFCA/PRAS staff and fairmer
representatives take the lead in developing all human resource development and technology
transfer aspects of the project and, in particular, initiate a methodology for the
implementation of farmer participatory technology adaptation and dissemination. Main
responsibilities would be to: (a) assist AARD and extension staff in organizing and
sensitizing farmer groups and preparing farmer participatory programs for the
investigation, adaptation and introduction of new practices based on improved water
control in the FSTA, tertiary units and project area generally; (b) assist in the continued
development of training programs for staff (at all levels) and farmers, and the preparation
of communication materials and approaches to create awareness and support forthe various
tenets of the agricultural development program within the affected farmer communities and
within concerned government/private agencies, including NMOs; (c) in support of the
above, assist in the development of training activities and materials for the various training
programs, follow-up in-service training tor field staff, workshops at Kabupaten and
Kecamatan level, and farmers field schools and field days at the level of FSTA and tertiary
units in individual scheemes; (d) assist in the implementation and monitoring of FSTA and
tertiary units programs by AARD and DGFCAIPRAS staff and the preparation of annial
work programs, activity schedules and financial budgets of such programs; (e) assist in
preparation of technical and progress reports analyzing the approach strategy at village,
scheme and farmer group level with emphasis on extent of community participation,
horizontal spread effects, sustainability of individual activities and of the
organizational/institutional approach, and effective dissemination of improved farming,
water management and pest control practices; and (f) assist in producing periodic progress
reports and prepare and submit a final consultant report with recommendation for follow-
up activties to strengthen and further develop the community participatory approach.
4. Pest Control Specialist (2 national)
Suitably qualified specialist with at least 10 years experience in pest ecology
and population dynamics, integrated pest management and organization of pest control
programs, campaigns and drives, with hands-on experience and knowledge of the most
effective approaches in wild pig and rat control. The pest control specialists would work
closely with AARD and DGFCA/PRAS staff and farmer groups in identification and
quantification of pest problems, devising the most effective strategies for their control, and
organizing and training pest control brigades within farmer groups to carry out those
strategies. Main responsibilities would be to: (a) assist in the design and implementation
of investigation of pest ecology in different habitat locations, including farm fields and also
exploration of the role of surrounding habitats in providing refuge to pests; (b) train local
staff and firmer representatives in pest identification and dynamics, appLied ecology, and
designing and implementing community-based, integrated pest control programs, based on
the latest effecdve methods, with particular emphasis on pig and rat control; (c) determine



- 87 -                          ANNEX 9
the magnitude and location of major pests in different parts of the project area and aasist
local staff in training activities and the development of extension materials for farmer field
schools and organizing and supervising farmers pest control brigades; (d) liaise closely
with AARD field research staff in developing more effective pest control techniques; (e)
assist in the preparation of regular work plans and activity budgets; and (f) prepare
periodic technical progress reports and a final consultants report.
5.   Women in Development (WID) Community Organizer (3 national)
Suitably qualified specialist with at least 10 years experience in rural
sociology with particular emphasis on women's affairs in the practical application of
community development activities. The terms of reference for this Specialist would be
identical to those of the Extension/Training/Community participation specialist but with
particular emphasis on the following: (a) development in target areas for the increase in
women's participation in development activities at all levels; (b) evaluation and
revision/adaptation of training prograirs/formats to incorporate gender issues and meet
women's needs; (c) orientation of local government and staff at all levels towards the
integration of women into developmental activities; (d) investigations and case studies to
identify factors determining female participation rates in various activities; (e) monitor
gender related issues; and (f) reconunendation on improving women's access to, and role
in development activities.
D. AGRICuLmuRAL RESEARCH
1.   Irrigation Agronomist (Research) (1 national)
This specialist would have similar qualifications and experience as the
international and local irrigation agronomists recruited by DGFCA but with emphasis on
research, as evidenced by recent participation and publications in relevant swamps related
research. While his/her main responsibility would be to work closely with AARD
scientists in the identification of the most pressing research needs and the design and
implementation of the required research at Karang Agung, other appropriate AARD
institutes and at field sites (FSTA) in the project area, the irrigation agronomist (resewch)
would also be expected to liaise with the DGFCA irrigation agronomists in their
investigations and the design of their work programs to ensure those are based on the latest
research results and also to obtain feed-back from the field to give direction to the ongoing
research. The irrigation agronomist would participate in preparing technical and research
publications, progress reports and would also produce a final consultant's report.
2.   Crop Pest Speiaist (Research) (I national)
This specialist would be a scientist of international, standing with at least 10
years ewerience in pest-related research relevant to the pests found in the project area.
He would work closely with AARD scientists and the local pest control specialist to
detrmine the severity distribution and ecology of the major pests in the project area and
devising effective control measures to contain them. Main responsibilities would be to:



- 88 -                         ANNEX 9
(a) assist in the design, implementation and analysis of surveys of pest occurrence;
(b) assist AARD staff in the design implementation and analysis of a field oriented
research program in the 10 FSTA sites to investigate pest population dynamics in relation
to host plant populations, natural predators, and the application of physical, cultural
biological and chemical control measures; (c) identify and advise AARD on more basic
research needs and outline research programs to support and backstop the applied field
research; (d) assist the local pest control specialists and extension staff in devising pest
control strategies and programs utilizing the latest and most effective measures developed
by research; and (e) prepare periodic technical progress reports and a final consultant's
report.
3.   Agricultural Economist (1 national)
Suitably qualified professional with at least 10 years experience in practical
aspects of rural economics and sociology. The socio-economist would work with AARD
staff in the FSTA sites, and collaborate closely with DGFCA staff and consultants in the
proposed tertiary hydraulic management units to establish and review the current socio-
economic charactristics in the project areas, to devise action plns for improvements, and
to monior the effect and impact of project activities. Main responsibilities would be to:
(a) assist in the preparaion, establishment and implementation of baseline surveys in the
FSTA and tertary units, and more generally in the project schemes; (b) assist in
establishing procedures for monitoring farmers' incomes and any changes as a result of
project activities; (c) assist in the analysis of results from base line surveys and monioring
and evaluation activities, and in the preparation of further action programs to overcome
identified constraints; (d) assist in the preparation of reports of the results of baseline
surveys, monitoring and evaluation activities and special studies, including farm
mechanization, revolving fimds, and the incorporation of animals in the farming system
to provide draft power and other benefits; and (e) submit a fal consultant's report.
4.   Communicato Speilist (1 inernational)
Suitably qualified specilist with at least 10 years experience in technical
communication or a related field, with practical experience in planning and development
of audio-visual methods and materials for information, motivation and training. Working
closely with research and extension staff, the specialist's major responsibilities would be
to: (a) translate the results of research inuo popular language using different forms of
communication matched to different audiences; (b) assist in developing extension materials
and packages of audio-vistu materials for various purposes of awareness creation,
motivation and extension; (c) assist in organizing and conducting training courses for field
workers in the development and utilization of audio-visual imaterials for extension
purposes; and (d) submit a final consultant report with rewcommendation for a condnued
communication strategy.
5.   Rural Sociologist (1 national)
Suitably qualified professional with at least 10 years experience in rural
sociology, awareness creation and adaptation of new cultivation pracdces. The specialist
would work closely with AARD research staff, DGFCH staff and farmer representatives.



-89a-                         ANNEX 9
He/she woulk take the lead in all technology transfer activities of the project, including
preparadon of conmmunication materials and conducting workshop and training sessions.
He/she would work closely together with the internationally recruited research and
comnunications specialist.



-89b-                          ANNEX 9
Table I
IDONESIA
ETEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECNCAL ASrSTANCE REQUIENTS
Implementing     Requirements
Expertise Required                    Agency        (Person/month)
A. Implementation Support
Inernational Experts
1. Monitoring/Evaluation Expert (1)       DGWRD                12
2. Design Specialist (1)                  DGWRD                30
3. Construction Engineer (1)              DGWRD                24
4. Hydrology and Soils                    DGWRD                  6
Subtotal
Local Experts
1. Deputy Central Team Leader (1)         DGWRD                63
2. Deputy Provincial Coordinator (3)      DGWRD                180
3. Monitoring/Evaluation Specialist (1)   DGWRD                63
4. Accountant                             DGWRD                25
5. Design Specialist (2)                  DGWRD                48
6. Construction Engineer (3)              DGWRD               144
7. Roads Engineer (1)                     DGWRD                30
8. Water Supply Engineer (1)              DGWRD                36
9. Environmental Engineer (1)             DGWRD                 12
Subtotal                                               ft
B. Institutional Capacity Building
International Experts
1. Central Team Leader/Institutional Expert (1) DGWRD          27
2. Prov. Coordinator/Institutional Expert (2)  DGWRD           60
3. O&M Specialist (1)                     DGWRD                 12
4. Irrigation Agronomist (2)              DGFCH                36
5. Research Comunnications Specialist (1)  AARD                 6
6. Park Management Specialist (1)         DGPHPA               36
7. Training/Comm. Dev. Specialist (1)     DGPHPA               20
Subtotal                                                Z



-90-                          ANNEX9
Table 1
Table 1 (cont'd)
Implementing     Requirements
Expertise Required                    Agency        (Person/month)
Local Experts
1. O&M Specialist (3)                    DGWRD                84
2. Irrigation Agronomist (3)              DGFCH                48
3. Agricultural Economist (1)             DGFCH                16
4. Training and Comm. Organizaton (3)     DGFCH                48
5. Pest Control Specialist (2)            DGFCH                66
6. Agricultural Machinery Specialist      DGFCH                 9
7. WID Community Organizer (3)            DGFCH                36
8. Irrigation Research Agronomist (1)     AARD                 24
9. Agdculural Economist                   AARD                 12
10. Crop Pest Specialist (1)              AARD                 12
11. Rural Sociologist (1)                 AARD                24
12. Forester (1)                         DGPHPA               34
13. Miscellaneous Local Experts          DGPHPA                9
14. Architect (1)                        DGPHPA                3
Subtotal                                               a
C. Policy Advice/Studies
Studies of Future Projects & Drainage Fee  DGWRD            TBD La
Envirowmental Profiles for
Riau and West Kalimantan
Provinces:
1. International Exparts                 DGPHPA                12
2. Local Experts                         DGPHPA                24
Subtotal                                                I
TOTAL
La To be determined.
May 6, 1994



Indonesia
Integrated  wasp  Develont Project
table 101. Coordination of Ptovincial Activities
17ambi
Dataile  cota
ip. Mlllon)
Prtes(in 8)
Ouantitiea                                         BaseOCoat                 CoaP.   Goo.tago
Unit   94/95 95/96       99719                                                  979/99 99/00Total Unit  o6  o" ct 9t0 Tota 1at  Exob. Bate
2. Zwostint costs
A. Offlee rehbilitation              amnt                                                            10.1     -     -           -     -  10.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
a. 1ps4t
fuiture                             set        1                              -     1        .0   4.0      -     -     -     -     -   4.0  10.0   0.0  10.0
NiaIellaneAus eqa t                 set              -      -     -     -     -     1       6.0   6.0      -     -     -     -     -   6.0  o.0  *5.3  10.0
Computer  1496/33)                 unit        2     -     -      -     -     -     2       6.0  12.1      -     -     -     -     -  12.1  10.0  35.3  10.0
Motor car                          unit        1     -     -      -     -     -     1      20.2  26.2      -     -     -     -     -  26.2  10.0  35.3  10.0
Motorboat                          unit        -     1     -  -      -        -     1       3e      .2 _            - 2                0    10.0  35.3  1O.0
C. Gnral administrative expense  per a_nnu       12    12    12    12    12    12    72         1.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  72.1  10.4  10.1   0.0
feL za         t   _asts                                                                                 72. 4 S0.2     0 12.0  12.0  12.0  12.110.1
n.  _oemm   ogeto
o06  for oar                        12 moath      1     1      1     1     1     1     6 1.2/1onth  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  86.7   0.0  25.3   5.0
Oa" for spee at                     12 month      -     1      1     1     1     1     5 4.0/month      -  4e    49.1  46.1 40.1  40.1 240.4   0.0  10.1   5.0
etalm Doeisnst coats                                                                                    14.    627  6256.56.    2.   2.
getal                                                                        i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I"11.  74.  !117  Yi-i -74.61 497.6
Te May 03 12:1itSS 1994
Inonesla
Integrated  _wn   Dvlopmet Protect
Table 102. CoordiaGtion of ProvWiial AetiVities
RIUauI
Detailed Cnos
(Fe.
lip. Million)
Parmeters lln (i
th.   Gross
quantities                        Base Coat                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coat. for,  Tax
Unit    9/  9Is9P  i97          1        00 total Unit COst  949 9596 96/97 97/99 9/99 99/00  total Bte  txch. Rate
2. Zin*         H st
A. Offlce tebablltation              mnt                                                            10.1     -     -     -     -     -  10.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
3. upst
rltur                               gt         1                                    1       4.0   4.0      -                       -   4.0  10.0   0.0  10.0
lsoellaeous   uip t                   t        I     -      -     -     -     -               .0   6.0     -     -     -     -     -   6.0  10.0  35.3  10.0
CO ter tU46/33)                    unit        2     -     -      -     -     -     2        6.0  12.1     -     -     -     -     -  12.1  10.0  J5.3  10.0
motor car                          uit         1     -      -     -     -     -     1       20.2  29.2     -     -     -     -     -  20.2  10.0  35.3  10.0
Motorboat                          unit        -     1      -     -     -     -     1       9 3B.2     39.2                -          30.2  10.0  35.3  10.0
Dd*etal                                                                           30.2~~~~~~~~*UC  1:  -  - -  -  090.5
C. Geral adminlstrative expenses per  anm         6    12    12    12    12    12    66         1.0   6.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  66.1  10.0  10.1   0.0
_ftal eetint Co-a.                                                                                      -"- -50.2  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0 164.7
21. MInmIt eas t
043 feo  cat                        12 Moth       1      1     1     1     1     1     6 1.2/moth  14.5  14.5  14.S  14.5  14.5  14.5  86.7   0.0  25.3   S.0
043 for speedboat                   12 month      -      1     1     1     1     1      5 4.0/honth           49.1  40 .1  4. 44.1 240.4   0.0  10.1   5.0                       S.
fetal Bainemt Casts                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~14.  62.5 62.  62.5  Uf 62-.5 327.1
00.6 112.6  74.6  74.6  14.6  74.6 491.6
u  NWl  03 12:12:321994                                              -0



Ia tat    _   Dsm       et toject
able 103. Coordiation  t ho       l ktlvtlea
vast KImantan
lip. millicm$
CoanUti4l      WaoM  Coat                                                   Coat. Fto. Ta.
Unit   91/95 95796 96/9t jfj 91193 !2SOO Total Umit Coat 94/95 95/96 96/97 91/98 91/99 2!99j*g00~tt  Etch. Rate
. office zebbilitatiou             _amt                                                         10.1    -    -    -    -    -  10.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
ltu1 -tu*                         set        1                                          4.0  4.0    -    -    -    -    -  4.010.0   0.0  10.0
lmgoelleua eipjmat                set        1    -    -    -    -    -    1            6.0  6.0    -    -    -    -    -  6.0  10.0  35.3  10.0
Coter  1406/33)                  unit        2                                  2       6.0  12.1    -    -    -    -    - 12.1  10.0  35.3  10.0
ato: eag                         unit        1    -    -    -    -    -    1           20.2  20.2                               20.2 10.0  35.3  10.0
Ibtotboct                       uvit         -    I    -    -    -    -    1           3.2    -  38.2      -    -    -    -  38.2  10.0  35.3  10.0
SM664                                                                                          -     -     -- -                  - $
C. Unauzl aMni.tatie e_pewe per aun            6   12   12   12   12   12   66            1.0  6.0  12.0  12.0 12.0  12.0  12.0 66.1  10.0  10.1  0.0
lintl       -      t                                                                               -66.3  50.2  12.0  12.0  1.2.0 12T  164.
22. Ramuet Case
oem for am                        12 mth        1    1    1    1    1    1    6 1.2htr 14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5  14.5 14.5 66.7  0.0  25.3  5.0
006 for apeeaet                   12 moth       -    1    1    1    1    1    5 4.OAontb           - 40.  40.1    A  4A!1 40.1  40A   0.0 10.1  5.0
Sm. Hal 03 121tUT40 1-94
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4i.'s~~~~~~~~~~'
'I" 
o o
4-1 cooUlastion of ftoicial AtlViteaVbat Kalmaatan



table 104. CoA99lflag $0.tt
4?.  ilum$
0.15  f~~~fl  ~ ~            Total Coovnt                               cootq 37 973  363    fL.   o       Rat.  a.   omt
A. Ctorn plmaes
ama0=9lm& smi ttestag
tor  "oftfBWIa Is    I ase  poMot.)         mah             32     6    3                 a? 2  4*.,   324     504.1   252.0   126.0   126.0 6.).   0.0  05.2  0.0
suty o 2odoo 42aba.ta                   Math       3   l2   is   12   12   12   63 12.4    37.3   149.3   1.49.3   149.3   149.3   149.3   704.0  0.0  0,0  0.0
in.opti4a40liau          math       3    12    6    6    3    -   30  42.0   126.0   504.1   252.60   252.0   124.0                - 2,260.2  0.0  65.2  0.0
moath      3    12   l2  I12   12    9    a0  12.4    37.3   149.3   149.3   149.3   1.49.3   312.0   146.6  0.0   0.0  0.0
0astv5q        VS!"$ 4~1                 math       3    12   12   12   12a    9   40  12.4    37.2   149.)   149.3   149.3   149.3   112.    146.6  0.0  0.0  0.
oupents - M.fouaatowl    moatS       3   12    41   41    3    -   30 42.    ISO.0   504.1   252.0   29.0   126.0                   - 1.240.2  0.0  05.2  0.0
Mis-Dgt? 5    toeds"  V. ffallrataa3        moa        3    12   12   12   12    9   s0  12.4    27.    149.3   149.3   149.)   149.3   11.2.0   744.6  0.0  0.0  0.0
Roaltoeao sod oyolmtloo "Meot                math       2    2    2    2    a        2   12 42.0    04.0    04.0    04.0    04.0    04.0    04.0   504.3  0.0  05.2  0.0
Rhadttotam oh  oajmtoo amp.e                moatS      I   i2   12   12   12   22   a2  12.4    37.    149.)   149.3   240.3   140.    140.2   244.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
ACOoiAtaat                                  moth       3     4    6      4    4    4   25 12.4         H.    49.0    74.7    49.0    49.0        .A3      21141  0.0  0.0  0.0
osadga epsol.UaO                ~~~~~~moth  9    is    9      .           .   30 42.0    30. 1    504.1   37M1I                       -       I. 12.2  0.0  05.2  0.0
boot,. apsotoltot               ~~~~~meath  6    24   t0      .                40  12.4    74.1   29.7   224.0                         .   -    97.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
640 apooloIhot                   m~~~~~~~oatS     4    2    a    2    2    12 42.0                 140.0    04.0    04.0    04.0    04.0   50.1  0.0  05.2  0.0
040 mpOolaUst                    ma~~~~~~~sot"     36   It0   l2   12    6   04  12.4         *    440.    22.        49.3   249.3    74.7  1,045.S      .    .    .
@Oaoteuottoa osgimot 0.50,0.1.   mo"at            9    6    6    -             24 41.5   124.    3733    2,40.    2144.9          .              9.5 00 0.    .
Ooaatoiloesop... liit)mt                          3    1      2     2     9     *    01.4        3.       .9.    14. 43              120         .    9.   0.S00,.
OosmOt.mtlooeqS.... 4Mm                math       3    12   12   12    9        * 40  12.4    27.3   149.3   149.3   149.3   s12.0               -    97.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
CoasteastS. aagluoo. P  KoSsaa         math       3    12   1.2   12    9       . 40  12.4    27.3   149.3   149.3   149.3   112.0               -    97.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
boabnw eaglarnots                           moatt,     3    12   la   6a    -    .         0  12.4    37.3   149.3   112.0    749.1       1.0              373.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
%Wotee o1    eSao   ..                      mathb       I    1s   la     9    .      -    36 12.4    37.3   149.3   149.3   112.0            .             440.0  0.0   0.0  0.0
flinUbmWal *"o"go                           smath      3    6    2       -           - 1.2 U2.4    37.2    74.7    37.3                      .             149.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
"    o*M   h eaftl arfat               mooth      2    .*     I     I                    41.             jj          15.5      5        -        -    240.9  0.0  0.0  0.0
1.Btestloaall,.lg"ot  ap amt            Mat"       6   24      3           S     *    6 42.0   252.0  1.099.2   120.0                126.0         1. 112.3  0.0  05.2  0.0
3. Raia0___
3veI9MIo. opoosotat    ~ ~ ~~smat         6    E4   122           6    - 40  1.2.4    14.7   290.7   249.3             .     74.7        .    97.3  0.0   0.0  0.0W
*gcSoal0.eoloomotos            mo~~seth   3     1    6      *     6    - 16  22.4    27.          124      74.7              74.7             199.1  0.0   0.0  0.0                  *
WA mtvoqsml.1ob                     mawth      6    24   12    -      6    - 40  12.4    74.7   29.7   149.3                      74.7        .     "5.)  0.0  0.0  0.0
Agrie.  mohawpoaStmthk                              -              -        3     -    9 12.4                74.7                      37.3        -   112.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
lost .6.0.4l apoolt0i 1                  Math       3    12   12      3    3           IS 12.4    37.2   149.3   149.3    37. 3        37.2             410.7  0.0  0.0  0.0
lost osateot opooIVt. XAOi3uat.    amath            3    1t   1s      3    3    -    3 12.4    37.3   149.3   149.3    37.3    37.3                     410.7  0.0  0.0  0.0
rI  ol2         rasm   low")             Math       S     I    4      *     4    * 12 12.4    27.2    12.4    49.0                      49.0            to14.2  0.0  0.0  0.0
010 oalty oo9soSIto""ea            math       3     1    4                        2 12.4    27.3    IZ2.        49.0             49.5             149.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
010 oinafttp oogaa tor(. bluotmata    math    3     I                 4    .    122  12.4    37.       12A       9.0        *    49.0        - 14741  0.0  0.0  0.0
2..SgtSoa ooo.,h agomdau~t             manth      2    12     5                      24 12.4    37.3   149.3   122.0           .                      299.7  0.0  0.0  0.0
SesoagoS  inaUatloi  opoolalot         maoth      I     I    I      I    I    1    6 42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0    42.0   292.0  0.0  05.2  0.0
A#ti=tu,oI OOosAott                         math       3     2    4    -       4    -   22  12.        37.      12.      49.0        *    49.0        *    149.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
cmo PMo  = musllt                           Math       3     5    4    -             - 12 12.4    37.3    62.2    49. 0              -       .        .   149.3  0.0   0.0  0.0
%*atbooltOoSt                               mah        3    4      S    5      5     - 24 12.4         37.3    74.7   -6. .....,jj4                        290.7  0.0   0.0  0.0
Toam lah"o.uatms. Pos
got. apaoialtst                        math            12   12      4    6    -    6 42.0                          $ 0.  04.1   252.0   2120        1,512.3  0.0  05.2  0.0
?eiatq"fmaatity Slw2wAt SpecoUsltt mah                          5     5                20 42.0         *    1.       3099    210.0   210.0         * 0.1 0.0  05.2  0.0
&AMO&Al                                                                                                        71TT1-- T7I41    1U13  -1UTcn.
2.  attoso d   t
to..OtO,o                                smath      -    12   22      6    4    * 34  12.4             -    149.3   1.49.3    74.7    49.0         . 423.1  0.0  0.0  0.0
gise. 2.0.1 suetOt                       Math        -    3    3      3    -            9  12.4        *     3.3    37.3    37.2                        112.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
AechItot                                 mafth                  3     .                 3 12.4         *         -   37.2        -                       37.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
9*0.0.1                                                                                             -94. -a                   _.    -4    -
-    in.I ~~~1D~  14.14'  5    3 9
V. ttuamaobal pooW*oa
oaoI  goosowotloltmt                                                                    21.          41      7.                                           *1 55 0 m
hv1,oinoata Pisan",                       math      6    4                             12 42.0   292.0   2S2.0           -                               04.1 000.    .
halo. lead wse please.                   math       6    4                             12  12.4    Lf  -SN2                                          ._149.1S2.   0.0  0.0  0.000
foe ISV 11                        moUat                                                        -        - ....~~~nI o                       -t1434,f  0.0  65.3  0.0                      -
13NFU121 345 15 1994



2. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rn    - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       ~     ~      a.        ge
A. mr
I. 200141W               oslo~4WA                                     -      I      20.60"    10.3                                               20.3  10.0 40.3  30.0
2. ?tot0~~~~  ,60                                                            1         a ..    a..                                                 1. 1 t..  0.0  10.0
3* 00201 .0M634st 030051W                                                     -    20.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  10.0    as.0    20.0    10.0   121.0  20.0  0.0  30.0
200 otsfl .40 WI .0S, 4: s                                                                                                                        0. ..II:  a 0  100
4. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s-~~~~.                                                                                                             o     .
lOtsttmO   @50      2                                -      2           4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~".2"  0.                                        to-001.0  0.0  10.0
CujwtovI4W332           ~A.t      2                                 -      2        6.60    1.                           .       -2.  10.0  30.3  10.0
Us.0  0                           l                                                         020         -     2.                                         10.3  10.0  0.0.  30.0
Sps.no                           hel   -."   3.1         -                                  0.1   23 *   114.0                    -       -114.0  10.0  40.3  10.0
_.                                                                                                                            -s   sI
NW d93.taua 14.  e            -00                   4   .       -  M-               07        10t                    l            -           _MA             10.0  10.3  10.0
M."Muu;; C   *U             2.4   2.4                    4                  0.0     0.0                -        -       -    800  3.0 40.0  20.0
0. b@109@   qt34st               as                                                                     -    0                  3.9       .             0.3  20.0 10.3  20.0
0. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~rn born~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~:                                                        .1.
0. 3m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:
De"  2.0a                           2.000                       140.3                                      240.3  Mo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.  40.3  10.0
*M 610y0 -- 14.6 to          -000 M3      -          me0.  103.2                  M   7    .1                       122.0   M0.0         -       -     404.2 10.0  40.3 30.0
3.  0in                                                                             ~~~~~~         ~~~~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 2.6  3.  -  - 0.  11.0  40.S310.0
Urn SOIWbeSO          maSSb                                                                        ...W..J  38...403  .......WA.  ....          MA .4 14  3.0 40.3  20.0
S. 06mg 0.6m AgauI   "D W                    .          1612                                                             I                                  .   S    03
,:= Mtit's                       0 -       -  .0                                 .0          .7         -20 -   too                       .            100.310.0  0. 2 0.0
S. 0now
2. 00663                                                                                                                                                            04 lo0..s
40601010                      maht   W"..~    ..3j  I~I    .                                                                                .      . 3.JI0 10.0 40.3  10.0
1. 010ae                             t 00.4.6W.4   .         .      .      .     .00         .07    00.6                                  .        .   3200.  10.0  10.3  10.0
0.~ ~~~~~~~~~, 1. 3m.S  0
S. INO 1rne0   00000 00A22                              .       -.                           .07               1.      1 .0                              3.03 20.0 40.3 10.0.9.
ass .0.0-   000              00.              20 30          -      -      - 40          200            ...340.4    MAg4....               .~ .J1    11.0 40.3  10.0
3. 00000  .1 g66WIa60 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ 49"               001 34.                                                .    MA200262   .
d13m         ut In         -o t              to Sr2n1 0                                                  23. ....9jo    ......                  .   MAI 30040.  10.0
comb2 1      0 . I            o   0             x    "C .40 . ..                .240       0.-u    47.  JAM             .                         - 4?.         0 10.1  30.0
S. 3m3     tma    dGw
4Ma    0.-                                                                                                     "A".   0.    .
SR.      coo" mass
20&UObSinU S                                                                                            2.0S 2    t4.2AM   M.       U. 4 40  9      -.    11.3  1.0 40.3  10.0                                                            o
3m ,.-an a0N"&00I0                                                                    2.31001       224A1.  1il.2              .46      U            .JL2L   21.0 40.3  30.0
I. 020             00    4.0W.4.~~~~~~.0   40f  k                  2000         .7   343.0         -                -     W          -A  14.0  10.0  11.1  0.0
0w41&rn-00.320        002         -   20    206          -.0         2e00         2.010                               la..1 40.    W-         711.0 1A0.0  40.3  10.0
a.ulo-3.020  000.3        -      6    12~~~4. -      -f -.0      10"       2.010                                     OL20  30&         M1.4  20.0 40.3  10.0
-ama
N  . Uer  obeasi    WI



Ite9twted twaqv Deeopmesat 1prolact
Table 202. oralelg and I rrL,atioat
Detailed c..r.
gave coot                   Coat. IPb? t.   rows
Ouatl9e                                                             Sasst coot                             Roate for,h  tA"
Val t   94/95  95/96  96/97!  _7lysS99/0    oa    Oi   oo                49       91/96     UP/9    97.91    9999       900    Total      tePc.at
*      . tmetCast.
*          ~~~~~A. UssaMeeOt                                                                                         00I
1. Duildieg                         unbit        I                                                   006        1.                                                       011.    031.
*            ~~~~~~2. italalag  oumrs  tor otaff  coorse                                                              3             .5  1.  .                                           .    00 901.
5.  ater saeagent StaslelS                                                                                                                                             6.      .     .010
*               (~~~~~~ot staff I A  WA members   OWU$at                                                                         -      20.0     20.0     20.0      20.0     200     100100 001.
*            4. S~~~~~igumeto"mt1     ::2"
tUt5St@16  561                            .              .      2       4.015~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2.  -                              9.01002.           00
ao~te  0241331                unOit        2                     -                     2        .05      1.           .        -         .120.1  10.0  104O                           .
RoorCar                           rAlt        .                                                  29. 25s1       .      9.3         .        -        -         .2.3        10.0  90.4 0.
Speedboa             ut                             . 3     -       .      .3                    34,212         . 114.9                                              1.   1.    0)1.
flotorcyoloa          unit        ~~     ~~     ~~~2  2  .      .      -      4        3.011      6.i'      6.0       ..        .         -        .      12.0  10.0  2S.3   60.
~~~~t.to1  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~X1                                      1~~~~~~~~~-4-9.0  .    .        -, -
0. Uy*.loU                                                                                                                                                                 2
1. &N&A plattom                     unAit        2     10la                                 12      10.066     20.1    100.7         .         .        -         .    1091.    031.
*             ~~~~~~2. VISrololic equipmenat      assent                                                                                SO92.     0.0         -        -               9.5  10.0  31.3  10.0
5. Staff treainag                  aecuat100                                                                             100      2.                              .    1001.0         .0 00
*           0.~~Stet&Slrt..
*              I~~~~~. M10 art                                40 .             . D.4.00                               0.7      097                   .                                 "S30. 7  10.0  15.2   0.0
S. M artbe0es*a6                                                                                      0.0
*                3ev~~~~2     dltbeer -.3.6b      000 e3        . 106.75  170.9 149.41                   421        2.919        .    300.9    491.4    421.2          -1,203.5  1I.0  40.3  10.0
*                Sac~~~~~~wavattag  PAd eAtdihg747   S*4031.
'cv ocoasin .- 17.9 km       '000 03        . 62.5    t00   97.5         .      .    21         2.919         -    176.2    291.9    246.6         -         -    7471.    031.
bravatice of rivet -. 5,4 km '000 .3          .16.25       26  22.75                              lA 1  .19    -      41.9     73.)      64.1        .              193.2  11.0  40.)  10.0
*                Ccv~~~~S "at"   ctureS           cuun.                                                                               51.9    925.4    722.3           -        -2 063 6   MD.  40.3  10.0
xmtetc1                                                                                                          3117T11E1T?US   1.45S4.                                                     0.- 
*             ~~~~~~1. 910                          ha      1.115      .       .      .      -           ,1          0.01      70.2                 .         .        .         .     762 00152            .0If
2.eot dbee-  59be'00a                           .   19.9   20.2       .                   4.        2.919               s)1.0    19.1         .                       132.S  15.0  40.)  10.0
bexavatiag mae  eateediag                                                                                              7.         .                                        10   0        0.
meW canals -- 0.9  t beo 003                .    2.9    4.2       .                     7       2.919               607.9    31.-9                 .1.    1.    031.
S. Rotor eosatrl stzucter1s2                                                                                                          0   9OS31   S04031.
NeW atrmures                    aaoot.    732119                                                                                                                  22993.11.04.)           .
g4tatAl t7
1.1                                 ha     1.200       -      .                     -1.200           0.07     94.2         .        .        .         -        -     9.    001.           .
S.  artbossata.2                                                                                                                13.
*                Rev~~~~~No dibe, -- 10.0 k.    p000 *3        -     32      49                           to . 5   2.919               0.2      1.3                                   251104.3 00
* ~~~~~~~xsacvatlag cad exteniding                                                                                                                                                    1.    s      031.
ccv canals -1.4 be           '000 .t3       .    1.6    2.4       .      -              4       2.919                4.       6.CS                                 1.    10   031.
Sobtatal                                                                                                                          142. .1               .      .       23.
D.evateruc"tur                    cacaos                                                                         -    910.0  1 361.0         -            ____2  Z7s  0  15.0  40.3  10.0
~ttl   otcut                       Ruk                                                                         04! *  lii.0')  ts!5T                                2,196.0
. SdIto Catc
1. 98                                ha      3.974      .                                3.974        0.07    279.90                                                    7.    001.           .
2. Sartheorka
&sc&vatlg cand outeadial g7I.   031.
saw conals -- 6.2Sk be       '000 a)        4     28       -      .                    35       2.919     39.S      59.2                  -        -         -     9.7104.)10
Rocavatlon of eavlgailca                                                                3S        299       286      329$141.   031.
eceals -- 5.0 km             1000 C)       74    MI        .             .      .      91       2.1         2096   329           .        -                       1.4104.31.
Sobtotal                                                   ~iI                                                          1~             
S.hbew aotruuue                   aeut                                                                                           246 2  1,069.3        -            ,11s.6  15.0  10.3  10.0
Vowte                                                                                                          1i11    1711omh  T'IN!I  4!69 3                    -4        7                              0
Tae%tal Zeoetrat costas1 1~i1i~V5                                                                                                               1it               
It. * eseerr eeCate
A. Intmoretal #"e.Wigton                                                                                                    S. e.              4.        9.                2.       .   01 S
048 for speedboat                 12 ecath       .       3      3      3       3      -     12 1.009/mooth        a.103           19.       4.3      103          .     2.      .01.         .
0981 for car                      12 coaktS                                    I             4 1.202/soomth              14.4      14.4     34.4      24.4        .     57.    0.0  10.1  5.0                  0
0981 for hydroloic equipobt        400ns                                                                         0.0     11.0      23.0     13.0      83.0        .     5.1   0.0  80.1  5.0
3. Sotla Ki    .S      o                  a         .       .      .      .440440990                     00                                             176.3    176.3    352.    0.0  10.1 1.
C. peals Ciaaba II   ha          .      .       .  1.111  1~~~~~~~~~~~.110  4.110  3.400  0.04     ..                       44.7     44.7      44.7    134.0   0.0  10.1  S.
0. Teluk Ulaoba;g1                                                     ,200  1,200  1.200  3.600         0.04         -        -               49.3      49.1     49.1    144.2   0.0  20.1   5.0
Rotela   at%                        ha                    I  ,30   1,30  3.974  3.974 10,549         0.04                  -     52.1      52.1    119.2    159.2    422.6   0.0  10.1 1.
Total  sostrosat Coeto                                                                                                                                 I 15776W1  il 31:   440.2 1TTS4I1
the Way 12 M2UM95  1994



- 96
Udootsaa                                                               ANUX 10
00_440s
ogai."o a" WAS&""                                                        Page 6 of 21
V"t saussat,ma
0.04,64.4 Gee"
00.
Volt JILIL J?Lm                             nmL Um- _%Lgw_                                                    -p-m-                              rsaelL a's-L.
A. peoloot --gooooot "s
stoff        aoKwot                                                                         1.4
tat, VUA ftft"                4SKMet                                                                                 30.0      W.1    10.4        $0.8     30.0    154.0  WA    *.4  30.4
I.-                           kmt                                                                                                                                    *:*  I I sel   l:::
4..V.t.r 1444/")                    "it         a                                            3         4.4's    u                                                            I  2:       3
""Of to                                                                                              alm            !     SdA                                               6  2  a          I .0
P"db"                                                                                                  lu               124.6                                          314:4  1: : 1.1   Me
"w."Ito                             MoA t                                                    4    3411 -6.0                                       -          - -----            16.0 3S.S 30.0
4.4-2                                                                                                             =R =0                                ---M ---
M ,11.0-                               ..Al        1   4                                        s           30   04   44                                                           16.0 6.0 W*
otomeol,                                                                               S3:ll                                          s3l   10.4  11.,
3: Scott t'".fts                      4o-s                                                                            I
So.! -44                                            -4M
sopooo a-tz is 4 222
4.70         *A?    M.?                                                               14.0  16.2   0.0
..d 1-47
44%.* .. 39A  t.      '000 .3              Sp                                             2.019              144.4    219.9                                  364.4  0.6  40.3  10.0
0,49""
10.0 1.       '000 .3             140    244       .         .       .    400     3-416                                                                     210    6 2  16 a
3.
AlhH ,                                       -4,   Lf  16.0  4C.3  10.6
V-.9
SID                                 ft.                                                                         49.1                                                     41.1  10.6  14.1    0.4
oo Ctoa%$    1.7 t.                 .3    41.6   134                                    in        SAIS    1374       M.2                                             243.9  11.0  44.3  nA
3.  l .
X_  W.'etwes                       - .1                                                                                                                                         04   40.3  14.4
Aoo4,o 4-Y.
ISID                                    h.     4.644                                        4.446         6.47    3".s          -                                          USA   10.0  2612   0.0
wtoo,
2014     422.6                                        2S.0  40.2  10.0
.,W,oo                                                                                                                                                                    16.0  40.3  20.0
Stbtoto,
S-kop                                                                                                0.01    IS7.9                                                     UIA   $0.0  is's   0.0
M                                    h.     2.2"                                         2.20
2: S..tb .. to
steo-Itoo"ol .-d CU-t"
.... t'" ftt..                  .060 S,           30.0   44.2                             77       2.4st               ".S    230.2                                   217.0  16.6  40.3  20.0
3. siotoo, -tool
I*oe  tllldu-.                                                                                                                                                                  25.6  40.3  10.0
6.1
6.       S"                                           S"         0. V.    41.4                                                      41.4  14.0  U.2   0.0
-40a .3                   42.4   93.0                    1%        2AU                          17S.0    "La                          439.1  ISA   0.3  10.0
t-I
tr_-to_                      Mooool
.6                                                                   4`3 ""a
Isto                                    ba     1.221    $25                                               0.01                                                             M S  10.0  Isla    0.0
2: lmoolloooelko
u- 4LI.  .. 4.9 t.                -ON  .3                   M:   39.6                                                              14.4    IS2.4                        104 :  is        3
Cloo-                s- o-OU                                 0.     0.4                               4."?                          1.4       Le                          4:   Is::  I  3  1,01
uto,"" iostoo,sioq Soo, "mb  'ON  .3                          n      4s                               a's" ------                                                                     4`3
J.
X_ U.Mcoo                          4-4                                                                                                            _--a                                44.3 20.0
sol.O."s
1 At. Ptft
U3.3                                                     133.2  20.0  16.2   0.0
- --M  .. M                 *---..-4" 16.0 40.2 nA
M        361                              3.1,10        0.91     0.6       U.4                                            S&I  10.0  2162   6.0
2 M44.9 " -toowtoe
oo to"I                                                                                           36929                        UL4          M.4                      341.2  164   40.3  MO
=      -- 4.1 M            -000 .2               .   4s.e   12.6
Udo, ottootozos                        t                                                                                                                                             40'$
K. A- DoMhoo
I                                       tA       30        .        .      .             .    30D        0.01      32.6                                                     21.0  14.0  M&    4.0
2 St".1th.m.looo,!4
4KLmot dik-    - ;!Vk.         -on  23             9.2   13.0                      .      33       SAM                 26.9      30.9                                  64.4  15.0  411.3  MA
".boo, .."'ol
Me
I$,* S*'
be                     no  3.466                               -  2.3100        0.01     38.4         USA                                        ISCS  20.0          -0.4
2: Unto .. "
itw           41.6 t.             10441 .3              -  330.4  117.4               .    us         4.419                       331.1    S".6                         OU.3  16.4  40.2  10.0
-on W                -  InA   214.2                .    UT         2AU,                                                                      ts..  40.%  WA
adw.ool
lb*-
strogtar-                                                                                              -wi ---mi +R4 +WA
U. o-    to.                                                                                                   W       30.1     28.1                                     .      41.4  10.0  U.2   0.0
1. SID                                  tA     WA  4".6                                                   0.
2.
,oool. .. IM    b.        -ftO 03                     14    Us                      us        3.4"                         M.6          smi                .        SUA   26.4  40.2  10.0
e"""                                                                                                                        In.
Sob,        t..etocoo                    soft                                                                                                  -                                      16.0   &2  M*
S."l, 9 ... t..% C.".
ft ..... CoWLo
A. Sweooowtol IWS,,,
Om  SC "t                            22 somb               2      a       2      a              0                            24.9      30.9     21.0     U.$               216.1   0.1  U.2  15A
is also              3       S      3       3             U  3."WMWA                            lQS.T         m l    t".7             434.1   0.0  40.3,  5.0
0.0 10A 6.0
a. I
00.0 Xtecl, ti 4 tit                                                 4.1016 4.1410 4.M    14.100          0.04                                 100.31   US 3    US.2    6444    0.4  MI   6.0
14;    in        M      no  &,Me         0.04                                  29.0      U:*      ".0    15.3   0.0  ml   5.0
4.40   4.40   4.60   4.4a  14.640           4604                           t    USA       104      "s.9    143.4   0.0  UJ    6.6
S.& 0% p                                                      U *  am    ZZ    M            9.000         a.                          90.!      SC%      10.3      10.1    31404    0.4  YA. S SA
UL Sol"                                                                                004  1.            0.40M,                                          21.4     23.4     41.3   0.4  16.1   5.0
Out-Ol.k                                                                             um    UM"                                                            10.1     10.1    144.2   0.0  Ws   6.0
fte M&I,                                be                            16M    11.940  3.90   S.10*         0.04                                  I&I       76.1     ?M      MA    0.   19.31  6.0
1. 'IO  La,"   M"           0.01                                            44.9     46.0      U.,   O.:  tiL       .G
990                                                        M        UA        31LI   0.0  10.1   SA
be                                   S.=    2.300    40           0.16M.                                         sal      10114    SILS   0.0  14.1   6.0
S=                                be                                      M        S"   1:1141      0.04                                                                      0.0  ml   &*
OWA""
Tl Sb.O..~ Gooto
Tk. Koy 1; 13146.14 1994



Indonesia
Intqgratod swa  Developct Project
table M0. Iigricultural Dewelopent
Janbl
IVp. milion$
Phy!t    Grole'
unit 94L9S gSX96 9679/98 98199 209S7iita Coat                          96/95  97/96f97 7/918 9 /9  99/00  Tontal Rte wA  Rate
S.  _    *tmb howu
a.     d        "tw    om  nt
Preparatlon of
work program               unit      2.6  5.4  *                              2.1    5.4   11.2         *      -       -       -   16.6 10.0 IS.2  0.0
D"onstrations                unit        -   1.6  1.6   I.6  1.-6   1.6   *9  52.0        -   83.2   63.2   83.2   83.2   83.2  *16.0 10.0 20.2  0.0
tansrer ot technology unit        -    1    2    2    2    1    8   3.1    _            3.      6.2      .2    9 jj 862    3.1 2.  10.0 IS.2  0.0
for gamw
Eretillser                  former    450  900 le ISO 1 800 2 250 2,250 9,000  0.1   58.3  116.7  175.0  233.3  291.7  291.7 1, 166.6  10.0  0.0  10.0
Other Inputs                farmer    450  900 1,350 1,800 2,250 2,250 9,000  0.1   Sq1. 3  116.7  175.0  233.3  291.7  291.7 41 16  10.0  0.0  10.0
B*t&                                                                                     1 16. 7  233.3  350. f-56-0  -F3.a  58O.-3 2, 3-3. 
C. Rchabilatation of RECs
and staff housing            amount    1.5  1.S    -       -     -     -     3 31.3   47.0   47.0         -       -       -      -   94.0  15.0  40.3  10.0
D. Extension materials
and equipmnt                 _lunit                                                      3.5   10.4   17.9   25.4   33.0   40.5  130.7  10.0  35.3 10.0
Kiiansgs /a                  unit        I    1    -      -     -     -     2  31.4   31.4   31.4        -       -       -      -    2.  10.0 60.3 10.0
Notorcycics                  unit       10   30    -       -    -     - 40  4.2   41.9  125.7            -       -       -       -167.6  10.0  60.3 lO.O
Prwbo ts                     unit        I    I                             2 10.5   lOO.S   .S          -       -    -              20.9  10.0 60.3  10.0
i    167.                                - 251.
P. Additional seed equlnat   amount                                                       20.)      -       -       -       -      - 20.  10.0  35.3  10.0                I
G.Seed certification 'training  nmmt                                                     6.9    6.S                                    IN  - 1.  10.0  0.0  lO.O 0
and o5 thre pers             set       M 0.5O.     _     _     _     _    1 62.    31.3   31.3          -       -       _      _   62.6  lo,:0  35.3  10.
Dmonstatr tons              amount    0.5  0.5    -       -     -     -     1 12.5    6.2    6.2         -       -       -      - 12.  l.  la.   0.0
Supervision  *             per annus                                                      _    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6   13.0  10.0  0-0  0.0
211o4tal                                                                                  37.S   40.1    2.6    2.6    2.6   -2.6   08.0
I. training7 of
farmers groups               amount                                                     94.9   94.9  126.5  190.0   94.6   31.5  632.4  10.0  0.0  10.0
J. ME and studios
beach mrk, midterm
and impct study              amount                                                    124.4   36.1  141.2   62.2   34.2  ISS.6  553.S  0.0  0.0  0.0
tr. Production activities
for Waw                      amount                                                        -   31.2   31.1   31.1   32.1   31.1  155.6 10.0  O.0  10.0
tota inetment coff                                                                           5409  76S5   ?58.8    7.4 868.2  -9- 4,731.3
nt.  _ *ozm  cemt
Seed prottuction operations    amount                                                     34.6   34.6   34.6   34.6   34.6   34.6  207.7  0.0  10.1  5.0
motorcycle operations          amount                                                      O.S    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    4.2  0.0  10.1  5.0
Ttavel and allowances          amount                                                      2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6   15.6  0.0  10.1  S.O
Trav /allowanc s fox
extension workers            amount                                                     20.0   27.7   27.7   27.7   27.7   27.7  159.3  0.0  10.1  5.0,
REC operations                 amount                                                      S.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2   36.4  0.0  10.1  S.O
Post control                   amount                                                     13.8   2?7._ 27.7   27.7   21.7   27.7 _152.3  0.0  10.1  5.0
Svta  _esmt Coats                                                                             77.6   99.6   99.6   99_    99.6   99.6  575.4
to                                                                                            618.5  86-4.5 S858S-.4  967.0  967.0 1,030.5 5,306.7                            p 
eo P
\a 2-whecl drive passenger van.                                                                       ~
Tue Kay 03 12:31:44 1994                                                                                                                                                      O  O
1-1 Agricultural Developmeat\Janbi



Indonesia
Integrated Swamp Development Project
Table 302. Agricultural Development
Riau
Detailed Cotat
(Fp. Million)
Parazeters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Quantities                 unit                          Base Cost                        Cont. For.   Tax
Unit    94/95 95/96 96/97 97/9  98799 99/00 Total Cost   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   Total Rate. Exch. Rate
I. Iuoe          COats
A. _ erta  ' Em mits
Preparation of
work program                   unit      3.4   6.6      -     -     -     -    10   2.1     7.1    13.7        -       -       -       -    20.8  10.0  15.2   0:0
Dmonstrations                   unit         -     2     2      2     2     2    10  52.0       -   104.0  104.0  104.0  104.0  104.0  520.1  10.G  20.2  0.0
Tansfer of technology            unit        -     2     2      2     2     2    10   3.1       -     6.2    t.2       6.2     6.2     6.2    31.2  10.0  15.2   0.0
Subtota                                                                                          7.1  124.0   110.2  110.2  110.2   110.2  572.0
a. ao.i~hl
for tafowt
Fertilizer                      farmer     300   600   900 1,200 1,500 1,500 6,000   0.1    38.9   77.8   116.7  155.6  194.4  194.4   777.8  10.0  0.0  10.0
Other inputs                    farmer     300   600   900 1,2"0 1,500 1.500 6,000   0.1    38.9   77.8   116.7  155.6  194.4  194.4  777.8  10.0   0.0  10.0
subtotal                                                                                        77.S   155.6   233.3  311.1   388.9  388.9 1,555.5
C. Rebabilatation of RECs
and staff housing                amount       2     2     -     -      -     -     4  31.3    62.6   62.6         -       -       -       -   125.3  15.0  40.3  10.0
D. Extenslon materials
and equipment                    amount                                                        3.5   10.4   17.9   25.4    33.0   40.5  130.7  10.0  35.3  10.0
3. Vebialee
Kiljangs /a                     unit         1          -     -      -     -     2  31.4    31.4    31.4        -       -       -       -    62.8  10.0  60.3  10.0
motorcycles                      unit        5    35     -      -     -     -    40   4.2    20.9   146.6        -       -       -       -   167.6  10.0  60.3  10.0
Powrboats                       unit         1     1     -     -     -      -     2  10.5   10.5   10.5                                  -    20.9  10.0  60.3  10.0
Subtetl                                                                                         62.8   188.5        -       -       -       -   251.4
P. Additional seed equlpment       amount                                                       20.9       -        -       -       -       -    20.9  10.0  35.3  10.0
G. Seed certification training    amount                                                         6.9      6.9       -       -       -       -    13.6  10.0  0.0  10.0            
S. Zarhtimo
moobnits.tlI
Set of S reapers
and S thresheri                 set        1     1     -     -      -     -     2  62.6    62.6   62.6        -        -       -       -   125.2  10.0  35.3  10.0
Demonstrations                  amount       1     1     -     -      -     -     2  12.5    12.5   12.5         -       -       -       -    24.9  10.0  10.1   0.0
Supervision                   per annum                                                         -      5.2     5.2     5.2     5.2     5.2   25.9  10.0   0.0   0.0
slubtotal                                                                                        75.0    60.2     5.2     5.2     5.2     5.2  176.0
I. Training of
farmers groups                  amount                                                       142.3  142.3  189.8  285.0  141.9   47.3  948.5  10.0   0.0  10.0
J. MaE and studies:
bench mark, midterm
and impact study                 amount                                                      124.4   36.1   141.2   62.2    34.2   155.6   553.8   0.0   0.0   0.0
K. Production activities
for "men                        amount                                                           -    31.1    31.1   31.1    31.1    31.1   155.6  10.0   0.0  10.0
1L. owlft pumps
for pilot irrigation scheme /b   unit         -    30     -     -     -      -    30   2.1       -    62.6        -       -       -       -    62.6  10.0  35.3  10.0
total  m_a~Mt Coats                                                                                583.4            728.8   830.3   744.5   778.7 4,566.0
US. smeet   Coats
Seed production operations         amount                                                       34.6   34.6   34.6   34.6    34.6   34.6  207.7   0.0  10.1   5.0
M4otorcycle operations             amount                                                        0.8      1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     6.2   0.0  10.1   5.0
Travel and allaances               amount                                                        3.9      3.9     3.9     3.9     3.9     3.9   23.4   0.0  10.1   5.0
Travel/allowances for
extension workers               amunt                                                         20.8   27.7    27.7   27.7    27.7    27.7  159.3   0.0  10.1   5.0
REC operations                     amount                                                        6.9     8.3      8.3     8.3     8.3     8.3    48.5   0.0  10.1   5.0
Post control                       amount                                                       13.8   27.7    27.7   27.7    27.7    27.7   152.3   0.0  10.1   5.0
tetal ae        costs                                                                               8.8  103.3 -13.3  103.3   103.3   103.3  597.4                     
fetal                                                                                                664.2 1,003.7   832.1  933.6  847.8  882.0 5 163.4                                a P
\a 2-skeel drive passenfer van.                                                                                                                                                          lo
\b 15-30 liter/second pumps
Tue May 03 12:32S10 1994
1-1 Agrilultural Development\Rlau



Interated   _  Deelgnt Project
Table 303. Agricultural Davelogmat
fest Ka.imantan
Pareters   n a
thy.       Gros
Q intities                   Unit                        lase Cost                       Cont. For.  tax
Unit    94/95 95796  94/97  97/96  06/99       fotal Cost  9495   95/4   969    S7798  9S/99  .99/00   Roaal  ate Erch. Rate
:. 2o Casts
I. iutta    d    um it
Pleparatio of
work prram                 unit         4      8                                12  2.1    8.3   16.6         -       -       -       -   24.9 10.0 15.i  0.0
Dstrationa                   unit         -      2      3      3     3      1    12 52.0        -  104.0  156.0  156.0  156.0   52.0  624.1 10.0 20.2  0.0
tanaer Of tecnology          unit         -      2      3      3      3     1    12  3.1         -    6.2    9.4    9.4    9.4    3.&   37.4 10.0  15.2  0.0
IshOetal                                                                                          6.3  126.9  165.4  165.4  165.4   55.  686.4
s. Smelw
*fer I
UertlIaer                   farmer      750 1,500  2,250  3,000  3.750  3.750 15,000   0.1   97.2  194.4  291.7  366.9  486.1  486.1 1,944.4  10.0  0.0  10.0
Other lnaput                farmr       750 1,500  2.250  3,000  S.750  3, 750 15.000  . 0.1   97.2  194.4  291.7  366.9  466.1  466.1 1 944 4  10.0  0.0  10.0
tatnl                                                                                        194.4  368.9 -     i3.3  777.0  97i.2  972.2 3,686.9
C. Rahabilatation of 3rs
and st    boalng              amout      2.5   2.5      -      -      _             5 31.3   76.3   76.3         -       -       -      -  156.6 15.0  40.3  10.0
0. Extealon materials
MA  equimat                  amount                                                             3.5   10.4   17.9   25.4   33.0   40.5  130.7 10.0  35.3  10.0
U9. ti1e
Kijags /a                    udit         1      1     -      -      -      -      2  31.4   31.4   31.4        -       -       -      -   62.8  10.0 40.3  10.0
Sbtrcyoles                   unit         2    36       -     -      -      -    40  4.2    6.4  159.2          -       -       -      -  167.6 10.0 60.3  10.0
awaroata                     unit         1      1     -      -   _ _              2  10.5   10.S   10_.25                                  20.9  10.0 60.3  10.0
50,3  201. I                              - 251.4
F. Additional saed equlimnt   a-t                                                               20.9       -       -       -       -      -   20.9  10.0  35.3  10.0        '0
G. Seed certification traning  amount                                                             6.9    6.9       -       _       _      _   13.6  10.0  0.0  10.0
s.  _tetsem de
Set of S repera
and 5 threshers             set       0.5   0.5       -     -      -      -      1 62.6   31.3   31.3         -       -       -      -   62.6  10.0  35.3  10.0
Dnestration                 amout       0.5   0.5      -      -      -      -      1 12.5    6.2    6.2         -       -       -      -   12.5  10.0  10.1  0.0
supervision                per annum                                                             -    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6   13.0 10.0  0.0  0.0
oatn                                                                                             3      40.1    2.6 - 2.6    2.6 88            66,0
S. Training of
famrs groups                 amunt                                                            237.2  231.2  316.3  474.9  236.4   78.6 1,560.9  10.0  0.0  10.0
J. Ma and studies:
bench mrk, mddtorm
and impact study             atmt                                                             165.9   46.1  186.3   63.0   45.6  207.4  738.3  0.0  0.0  0.0
. Ptroduction activities
for wn                       amount                                                              -   41.5   41.5   41.5   41.S   41.5  207.4  10.0  0.0  10.0
got" 2mst_at Cats                                                                                  1 03.i 1,179.4 1,315.3 1,5;0.5 1,496.7 1,396.1 7,763.2
U.  _ernont Cast
Seed production operations     amunt                                                            34.6   34.6   34.6   34.6   34.6   34.6  207.7  0.0 10.1  5.0
motorcycle opertions           amount                                                             0.8    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    6.2  0.0  10.1  5.0
trael and allowances           atmt                                                               3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9   23.4  0.0  10.1  5.0
travel/allances for
extension workers              unt                                                            20.8   27.7   27.7   27.7   27.7   27.7  159.3  0.0 10.1  5.0
RBC operations                 aount                                                             6.9    8.3    8.3    8.3    6.3    6.3   46.5  0.0 10.1  5.0
Pet control                   aiunt                                                             13.6   27.7   27.7   27.7   27.7   27.7  152.3  0.0 10.1  5.0
feta       _ Dernt costs                                                                            80.8  103.3  103.3  103.3  103.3  103.3  597.4
884.1 1,262.7 1,416.6 1,673.9 1,600.0 1,S01.4 8,360.6
%f 2-1*a11 drive passener Van.
Tue May 03 12:32:35 19                                                                                                                                                        o
1-1 Agricultural Davelopmant\Ubst Kalimantan



Indonesia
Integrated Swap Development Ptroject
Table 401. Agricultural Research
Jambi
Detale& 0..t5
(Pi. illion)
Parameters (in B)
phy.       Gross
I ntitlo                  Unit                         Base Cost                        Coat. For.  Tax
Unit  94/95 95M96 96/91 919  96/  *700 Total Cost  94/95  I5/96  9_/97  917/98   98/99   99/00   Total Rate Exch. Rate
s. Z__mvet Osets
a. 3~pet*mg ilUtl
suilding rental               amount                                                   34.2   26.0        -                            62.2  10.0  0.0  0.0
miture                       am_unt                                                    17.2   14.1        -       -       -       -    31.3  10.0  35.3  10.0
VehbIlels                     aount                                                    34.6   20.3        -       -       -       -   62.  10.0  60.3  10.0
Offle rental
at prolin   capltol         amount                                                   17.1   14.0        -       -       -       -    31.1  10.0  0.0  0.0
Operatlon                     amont                                                    25.7   21.0        -       -                    46.7 10.0  10.1  0.0
gabtete                                                                                -T2-   -iwi9.         -       -                 -
8. 3pi_
field euipmet                 amount                                                   51.1   40.7   10.4    2.1          -       -   104.3  10.0  3S.3  10.0
Office epment                 amot                                                     10.2    8.1    2.1    0.4          -       -   20.9  10.0  3S.3  10.0
61.S                                                                  2.3 -74v    17"                             7          -        -  125.2
C. Research materials a supplies   nt                                                    158.7  158.7  150.7  158.7  158.7  140.0  933.3  10.0  0.0  10.0
0. Data collectioa and
aalysl                         maunt                                                    64.9   70.7   49.5   49.5   49.5   49.5  353.6  10.0  20.2  0.0
low                                              U433.77   3T                                                  220.7  i10. 7   208.2 --T   1,646.3
Too My 03 12:33S25 1994
Indonesia                                                                                            O
lategtrated swmp oelopet Project
Table 402. Agrlcultursl Reseach
Men
Detaled COent
(Pp. NilllonI
Partaters tia 6)
Vh .       Oro"5
Ouatittes,               unit                         Sane Cost                       Coat.  otr.  Tax
Unit 94795 95/56 96/97 9H9MO 96/99  99/00 Total Cost  996/97   971/9   9699   99/00   total Rate  Each. Rate
A.  _egata  ait
uldint  rental                amount                                                    45.6   37.3       -       -       -       -   03.0  10.0  0.0  0.0
1tniture                      aunt                                                     17.2    14.1       -               -       -    31.3  10.0  35.3  10.0
Vehclles                      amount                                                    34.6   26.3       -       -       -       -   62.0  10.0 60.3 10.0
Offle rental
at polnce capltol           amount                                                   17.1   14.0        -       -       -       -    31.1  10.0  0.0  0.0
opetions                      asmunt                                                    25.7   21.0       -                       -   46.7  10.0  10.1  0.0
9010botal                                                         ~~~~~~~~~140.2 147                           -   -254:1
5. Uqiaa
Field equipment               amount                                                    51.1   40.7   10.4    2.1         -       -   104.3  10.0  35.3  10.0
office equipment              amount,                                                   10.2    6.1    2.1    0.4    -            -   20.  10.0  35.3  10.0
Sabtfletalwent                aaount61 3   4 .8   12 5                                                          2 5       -       -  125.2
C. _esearch materials a supplies amunt                                                    156.7  156.7  156.7  156.7  150.7  140.0  933.3  10.0  0.0  10.0
D. Data collection and                                                                                                                                                          X
analysis                       amount                                                   64.9   70.7   49.5   49.5   49.5   49.5  353.6  10.0  20.2  0.0             O         .
fetal                                                                                          445.    392-.9  220.7  210.    00.2   169.5 1,667.0 
0
bte Na  03 MU:M:3  194                                                                                                                                                            o
PA



ladoocala
Integrated swaw  Deve1lont  "o.ct
Table 403. AW7Cultural    ercb
lbst alAImetan
(1P.tilliom
Wag. bago
Iuaatlties                 unit                         Same Coo Ctet. Nut.
8. _ino@ t Orvl_e
A. I d.intal                      _t                                                    84.2   28.0                                    62.2 10.0       0 .0 0 0
Offg La t2t4tnsso gastals: 
at pts,aescapitol       Z    uat                            *                         17.1    14.0      -       -       -       -    31.1  10.0  0.0  0.0
field  ploomt                 meat                                                     t5.1       40.7 1.4    2.1         -       -   104.8  10.0 U.3  10.0
_fe  -e                        _t2stat                                                                                         -       31a1 10.0  88  10.0
e. Rasmaxab astetialo 4 uutlepU    _eat                                                   15012.7  198.7  198.7   18.7  15.7   140.0  933.8  10.0  0.0  10.0
D. Daa  oll.otlam  en
110 83K 93 28140260 1994~~~119   -7
1e"b                           _e                                                       U       tO.    .4.5    .49.    G.%    I             1.t.0 20.2 10.0
-lBR0   an.7 a.s 2aBowlsSW                                                                  5.7   210.t  JSeS?   1"7        t.?   4.093S 1.              -0   0-
91"I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ioli  fUi424iZ IM4 
Zrnd.me.1a
lateatad   _   Osmelaiit  eetect
Table 404. Apicultutel  Rnaezb
90raa Agn-g
Dariled bte
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Go
(P. millie)
Omantitlos          Univat                fSe. Coat                Cent. ifo.  tas
unit K4/IM  n     #/97 9O/9 it 79  V_/0 Total Cat  94/95 95/96   nt97/N  J         _f 99/00 TOtal RAte Excb. Rate
A. VeClo  ao_uat                                                                         17.8  14.1     -    -    -    - 31.4  10.0  60.3  10.0
0. fteld equipment               amonmt                                                  25.6 20.3  5.2   1.0    -        - 52.2  10.0  35.8  10.0
C. Rteseoar  mtarials a mapplies amount                                                  52.9  52.9  52.9  52.9  52.9  46.7 311.1  10.0  0.0  10.0
g. Dat colleclton *ad
analsis                       omout                                                    39.9  33.8  23.3 23.3  23.3  23.3 166.4  30.0 20.2  0.0
L Trtaining                      amount                                                  16.7  18.7  10.7 -t9.7 10.7  10.7 112.0  10.0  0.0 10.0
btl                                                                                           5.5 f l        1n    94.9  00.6 S63.I.
Tue Shy 03  2s421 1  994 --
t-



1*5.ft" 50M. oamt lmal"*I*
$K. COMM WaoM
*1_^
A.~~~ wn 9 WlI WoBwnaWW  _
0151. 1,10m                          *0       1    -      -       -    -       1 15. .5.              .       -. .s   -          -          15 l.1  55.0 452  50.0
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         .                             n6.1m       es ee
At                                                   *6 1.A-    1 -5    -5.5  -  -  -           - -     *. e 10.5   -   10.0
4     S                              madl     S                                           I _t . e  *.e     e.       .      e          -,        10 te.0 e0.e 10.0
N   le  1X2 s    le  le       -     I ee ale-e    *  e e.0 402 IL
e-IS1                                mal      I                          *  -    5.0   e.    e.                    e.         -    2.       5.0  10.0 5   10.0
S.                                   m        1--    15.                                    *0.0    e        -       k       e:  224                     .   0.0
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                       e. is. e                                                         IL: e  2
Oabup5.e.                          mai       S                          -     2  1.        .                                         -     1e.5  0.025.  10.0
>*8*  6|_    _           Z~~~ ~~ ~~et                                         =                                sS      _       =      ue    .    .
ifefIat*tumaa lb    iemS             .5                                                    57.    .   .   ..5.0.0  1.  `0.0
.  1011 _ _b                           Fat      0*5.   ~4                                          ~     -        -                       .. ~1.   551.
mail                                                  5.0     0.0      5.0     0.       .5   10.0  0.0  0.0
b. =   W"="  aiWIame.           MLl                                                   5.4     1.4      1.4     1.4     1.4       *      .0  10.   0.0  0.0
a. CIOsiA*o aUMWIs.                  maiL                                                  0.5      0.5     0.2     0.2     0.2              1.  10.   0.0  0.0
_. _tt.Ia  gmge                                                     .10.I                                  10.     10.     10.1        --52.7  10.0 1.2 10.0
o. 0ttlma.~~~~~~~1Am0      wMiAl                                                  0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.5             4.0  10.0 10.1. 0.0
4. ainalamtsao S.1511510        Mai                                                    2.0     2.5     5.5     5.5     5.5             12.  10.0  10.1  0.0
b.    0.0     0.0t    0.0      0. -             .4 4e0.0  5.1  0.0
1.                                                                            1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  .0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0       -    1 .00.  10.5  0.0
0       2t o   0.  *  0. 0o.*  0.0
t: :: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4 Ol" U. 0   e1:.tele...., I*. e.   o
56410 (1551                                                     0.0     0.5      0.0    ~~~~    ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0  0.0      4.0  10.0  15.2  0.0
c~~smm                   mali                                                   0.0     0.0     0.0     0.5      0.0t*    4.0  15.0 10.1  0.0
1*0 10                             mal                                                -41-         .3  :-3         :-t.~   :-.'.j       :~ i .:.0 1.50.0
_-  -,  _" 1. l.1 *.I -4
I. 0t1. adml,tla          _0         WAO                                                   eLS       2..    a's8.. h  .'41                       10.0 0  2  e.0
1*00501                                                                                                        -I~-I~-~-~a i4 2 sol
hsou~~~~~~s.               *01~~~~ou  6.L It.   010.06                                                                                  IS 100   5.  40.2 10.0
m.smSm.o                             pelt     I.-                                         ~  -i  .S =;...,Us~ 5.0 40.  50.0
A. *&t. 102.1*                                                                                                                                            0.,  L
e. e _01 _ 1e.                         mall      I.                                 55    720.       1          .t   .    2e             -    5.e 10.  02  10.e0
_US_4 "O472X"1 e.t eev                ou22te                                       M
malt   10    5  -    *    -   105.5~~~~~It   J%  40.0  5.0                                  U    5.  IL: .00 is.0
001005_.140                          gal.      .     .    .     .     .    .10.1          O         0.5                       ..110.00.210.0
0 ,eco                                                                            X  _e a.Ie.  -.e 55.1  - -I-                                      10.0     2 n0.0
S. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     - Mtee                                       IL: 
V0I0.I~~~~~~  maIm  0.0  5.0    10.2                              .        .       .       .       -    10.5 10.0  15.3 10.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.tG   363  0.
C0~~~l0.i454V32  gait  I.50.0                          0.0       -       .        .       .       .     6.010.015.110.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  3.8  0.
0(11.0 fwSlWI. S .q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al  owl ~~~~~~..-d  L...:                                    S.:-   ...    MN..    10.0 15.    .
4. Omgwamt.lwa mawIa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0.                                            0
4 *f                                  U:..e.e  a                                           0.0      0.4     0.:     0.0     0.5       .      2.0  10.0 10.0  0.0
..              a s u lAl.4.       mai                                                    1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     2.0       .      .0  10.0 50.1  0.0
0.    of100    b6mm                                                                     .      .s     o.s     0.?      0.?       .      .0  50.0  5.5  0.0
55030.60  wall                                                         ~~~     ~~~     ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  *a sm  1.1  0.   0.0  5.1  0.0
spopowaw                    ll"ON" "5 g                                                     -  j j    g ig  -b 
1. sp~~~~~~~~ mamams ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~mma                           2.1      a~~~~~~~~~~.s  2.5  a.o  2.1      .      2. L1.  20.2  0.0
opOsol                   00.11                                                  5.0     o~~~o    *~o WA          *.        .    45.  10.0 10.3  0.0
goloesvslo.              wall~~~~~.1t                                           0.0     0.0     00        .0      .        .     4.0  100I   02C.
WIMPte 45111                                                                            0.5      0.      0.5     0.5      .5                  IL:. 10.0 105   .
0050.1051   wall                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                ~~~~~...    .. .... ....~4..4 ...4    ... 60Z 10.0 10.2  0.0
1013 I*Oi        waat                                               5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3142.   41.2)2 15,05.  1f.121   545.    0.3 50.1 $M  0.0 15.5  0.0
=,U,=           mome                                                  Ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~10.    0.    503.5   4,0.    400.4 300.  3,12.  0.0 15.2 10.0
Ift"~~~~~t
51.00  be               I s4001000. 1..w 5,1  be1 is5 52551 4   of505 the pg"015.N
ima NW 12 1251381t iww ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ tooN



10900       .e et 3006.
.  11e_"
6.~ bw   UfN7e 0o4
0.0.00106.2 aihm~~~oom    am"=
K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~K
4....  dot.                           wi        1    -      --                     1 36.4   30.         -       -      -       .      -   364   0.0  0.   W0.0
_-ah                                                                                        4         i-4   i0 .'. .                                          A
6. _p
te  .. 46903                          0016      1                      .      *        0.0    0.0       -       -      -    *          -    0.0  10.0*36.3 20.0
@03in11                      wit~~~~~al  3    -         -                 '300       4.0      -       -       -: -                 400. 3 .30.0
~~11.hapbo3eete.             u01td                                       I   1.      1.6s                                              IoA-- - .   10.033  10.0
0011ev fegaltO.6  q .                  tt                                                     L.        -                                    . 0.0 3t.3 10.0
lenOi.ltO lb                           wit      S        -6 0.1                                                                         ....     10.0 7303  120.
S. flom000061 00000
0 R  . .0 - -e,o           -           it                                                     .0    0e.0    9.0    9.-  -9.           -     .0  30.0  0.0 .  0.0
b.                g        ..          " t                                                    1.        4            1.4!1.,           - *   .0  I0.0  0.   0.0
e. Olotag olee_                       "Mt                                                     02      0.2    0.1    0.2    0.2         -    1    0    0.   0.0
d. tWvelmo  eo.s                      %_                                                     3 0.    10.    10.1    W.    10.1             U.7  20.0  20.2 30.0
*. 0101..  "U0.                       WAt                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.        0.0      -    4.0   .0  so I  0.
t. COtleOaue     4 .UUt312                                                                            al 2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1  *   326  10.0  0.1  0.0
9. 1.140  Mi0m
Ot.eff _mw..                       0011                                                      *     0.0    0.0    0.4    0.0              2.4 I0.0  1.1  0.0
3. 0p       .98.05Mimttbin
4.0= 01        =VW110"t                                                                    2.0    2.0    *.       2.0    2.0            1.0 10.0  20.2  0.0
mototqtl..                 w~~~~~it                                               0.0     0.      0.0    0.U      .             412.  20.120.
toil. 4666)  twIt                                                 0.0    ~~~~    ~~~~    ~~~~ ~~~~~0.6    0.6    0.:    0.6     4.0  10.0 20.2  0.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  -4                                                                   -e.             -4
1..,,,,,                          wit                                                  q...4    e..4   .41          e. ..4 ...4       s...3    u0.  *0.2  0.0
a. ottf .  SWa*1 a#Att,   GM          61                                                      2.a     2..  2M.    2.O 1 .1.-                       10.0 u ,1   0.0
D. 6000 to"
^cm.e 1.11419                          tI        0. -*0--                     *         .1    0.         -      -       -       -      -   <e.  20.  40.  e0. e.
0ff _m.                                wit          .1  16 *                 *        a.1   W.7         -       -      -       *      -   06.7 11.0  40.3  10.0                                                                           0
6000100..                     l~~~~~vat  I.126.4   ~                                                                            .~    1.0  40.3 20.0                                                                             ..
4 _Wl dft_                            _"t             I I    -    -    -    .    3 3.4               364        -      -       -       -   MA4WUe 0     .3  10.0
_0t003o20                             WAt             6    -    -    -            U 4  2.0  26.4   14.0         -      -       -4.0  0.0 0.   10.0
_b00t                                  wit            I t        -                    s         ;      :"  - 21                                   u0.6 e0.3  1.0
3.  _pm
C    0  44                            wit       1    '                                 4 '    '   .-    te.0  00  .  *  *      -       -    6.0  10.0  1.3  30.0
600   69)                             wit          .    .     .    .     .     .1   6.0e   6.0          - *     -      .       .       -    1.t  L0.0 91.3  30.0
0001.. fettdte.o 0 Oeg30.o.t           OIl                                                    3.4       -       -         t    .       .43.4 30.0  36.3  10.0
0100e31. set                          "At       I.       .    .           .    .       6.0    1.0       .                                    .0 20.0 20.2  20.0
Vftft VIA"                   "it      4.       .          .     .        4  6.O...0 .....z:-                                           20.0 20.3  30.
4. 00300014--e0
o. solety &w,e                        WAt                                                    44.6   44.6   44.S   44.6   44.6         I     2    0.0  0.0  0.0
b. bee m_   .mtletto                 m_t                                                      6.4    0.6    0.4    0.0    0.4              43.0  t0..  0.0  0.0
p. ClotMe, .111010..         wAt                                                     0.6    0.:    0.9    0.       0.0            s4.   10.    0.   0.0
4. OtmIlle, .e,mwe.  wit2 e  2.                                                     2.      1.1    2.        -   14.  20.  20.2 20.
0. 001mt10o 0A3114v.              "Mt                                                    3.0    3.0    2.0    1.0    1.0               1.0 0.  10.1  0.0
0 m*fimb..                 walt                                                          0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7         -    2.3  10.0  6.   0.0
taft how"                           e                                                        -    t.0    1.0       .0    3.0        -    7.2 10.0  6.1  0.0
ct0k                                   wlt                                                .-  ...4 .4                  j . e 4             11  0 l.0 1.3 0.0
e. 6p4_1 .910.0000 Mi MimOm
Olal-Ip 44-000.2 *2w)               0011                                                   2.6    2.6    2.1    2.6    2.1          -   12.6  30.0 20.2  0.0
600, 4669)                          Mit                                                   t0::    0.0    0.e       00     0::         -  4.0 30  20".   0.0
c. o.le _ P _ v _t                                                                         0.7    0.?    0.7   t 0.9    0.?              3.6  10.0 20.2  0.0
Mat" but1                          umt                                                 ...1   ..i   .1    .4    .4    ..                      20*.   0.0
~01. _twS O ruoeprO                      rtI01                                                                                 14          _.  10.0  6.1  0.0
40166060-N                                                                                                             =R=R                  .ZP
torn 1*1.                                                                                      471.?  720.3  003.00aft   20. 0   M     e64.0  243.6  .400.   0.0  31.2  0.0
1.33111,.                                                                                       M:%20.   31.0  447.1  104.2  *2.? 7  0. 3.404.1  0.0  11.2 30.0
01106~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ma                                                                 20.3  304.0  441.6  294.2  222.?  110.0 1,804.1  0.0  26.2  20.0
=1= Ite.       ~                                                                               i. 5 33 4Ud                31J--J22 !                 0.0  3.3  0.0
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... 510. 1_9. 097.8 _.                                                                     42.
aaa u Xtu"z s
V   4
2-1an         ep



2"       ,   to     w.
ooec COVN
t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o _luh
t.a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aM
* onsw-sre -~~~~~~~~~tit                                                                                                             To-c at$l  Rau$- 4- 
*a esoe  asew                                     2     -    -     -     -    -                 .7        -        -       -        -       -      .7 e.   e   s.
to_toa    Jd                                          -     -    -     -     -         .       .*        -       -        -       -               .    o.f.s.
c_4ns1eese- * " 4 ^ se                ate. #.                                                   e.
e4woo driv is             -           0                       -4                            3 --                                               30.4 to s --    to.s O . 
etfsZ tane OWd_lWt *~~~~~.M                          t.                                   *.e     .......e                                 1.e n.3 to.e
t~~~~~~~~~~~~ml                                                              b6  It :36e3 - 1 5 001  -  s.
e.~~~~~~aqi"                     Mt _                                                     .0                                                    141t 2 X.      .0 36.   v    e
. tf lll*  _               _~~~~~~~Vsit                                           *1X.             ss     1.        0s        -    s.0  eoA  2e.0  e.0
t. C_"U_ &  htl   tt                                                t.*     t.$    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .11    2.6  2.6  -  2.6  0.0 Ie.1  0.0
t. e =W-  M...A..                   "e                                e.   O .f                                      *    O .f                2 .4 tn.o,  .1 e.e
"I _ pocUMne  _*6                                                                                 1.0      2.0     2.0..  .               . 2.0  - z.0 10.0 20.2  0.
_d*                                                                                        -4  -44 -k; --4 i-4                                --
A. t_b   _" fgov e        m""           *t-A3                                                                            .--           -                       . 
t"_W                         e       sX    7    .    .    -    -   t   a.    n.s" 16.                         -       -               t    0.0 s. 6  0.s 
&   tX.bb""_n. e. v
J.d-O                                   m
i; = t                      -~~~~~ut  t    -     --                    *e*         ^                                                    -** 
| t  _ . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s. 36.3  6.0 e
w1Z                         * .s    ".t    * .s    ".s        * .s       -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.Is 10.0  0.   0.o
e.                                    WAtd * a                                                .       *        .       .       *s        -      s   ee . 
d. etet                                                                                     lat.:   la,:    e2.9     21      Ol         -      .1 110.3  2,,1 "O"O
_tt  ', cut                                                                                                      :1    1:-  u. 1: 10    -   ,
_           zdT                                                     a.s     2.s      a.      a.s     a.s        -    aX.s seA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.  2O.S  0.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 *I  21 .: .*                                         U.  .                    4.t.0 2e.2 *.0
azz {ssz                  |4                                                      .       e.e o~~~#Mt  . ...       e. O'            4.e  1.0 2O.2  0.0
Pesa"r                              mi                                                     1.       .        .       .       .                .6 to.   et*
o_0                                                                                             .g           .       .                     _ 
d     oosr de 'f                                                                   ful.6  2206c   2U.S    .26e.4   7 a.3   11".11 S.M7.4  0.0 11.2  0. 0 
%O t   e   r _     .00 . SAW               m  .   44s. 4,7smes, or2a  s*M  e.rojectd
dd- NW     U g l;6; -- -     --   -
Wnel_u- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~oeapot"



Indoesia
Integrated SWae Developgmt Project
Table 504. Coconut Delopment
Jakarta
Deald Cae
(Ff. Million)
Parameters  in 
Kly.       Groan
atities                    Unit                 cba  Cost                  Coat. fIr.   ts
nwit   S45 7   997 97/            9     0    al Cost 94/95   /96           91  9999/00 total Rate  Esatc  Rate
I. Zaee-t Oet
A. Whiele d et i
4-,dal drive                            unit        1    1      -     -    -            2  36.4  36.4  36.4     -           -     -  72.7  10.0 60.3  10.0
Notorcyles                              unit        2    2    -       -    -      -     4   2.9   5.9   5.9     -                 -  11.t  10 0  60.3  10.0
C~utee (496/33)                         unlt        4    -      -    -      --          4   6.0  24.1     -     -    -      -    -  24 1 10.0  35.3  10.0
furniture                              amount                                                    20.1                                20.1  10.0  35.3  10.0
g*tetal.                                                                                            0654.2         -     -     -      -126.?
*. trSnn
Project ta                             amout                                                     49.8  33.3  19.5    -      -       100.6  10.0  0.0  10.0
Famer ttaining                         mount                                                        -   5.0  10.0  14.6   9.6     -  39.2  10.0  0.0 10.0
t*Ot1                                                 i40.0  3.3 2tl.5 14.6   9.6                                                      - 139.6
C. Bqpeav        ota
1. Salary a wages                     per anum                                                   13.9  13.9 13.9  13.9  13.9      - 69.5  10.0  0.0   0.0
2. ttael anthousig allowancs          per annum                                                   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5     -  12.5  10.0   0.0  0.0
3. Clothing alloance                  per _am                                                     0.4   0.4  0.4  0.4   0.4    -   2.0  10.0   0.0   0.0
4. Travelling espencs                 per 5anum                                                  15.3  15.3  15.3  15.3  1S.3        76.3  10.0  20.2  10.0
5. Ofttice suplies                    pet annim                                                   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5     - .12.5  10.0  10.1  0.0
6. CoinAnicationa a utilities         per annu                                                    5.0   5.0  5.0   5.0   5.0      - 25.0  10.0  10.1  0.0
7. Uwlinmmt qe.attgw   m    mem   P 
ntation  wagons                    per annum                                                   2.0   2.0  2.0   2.0   2.0      -  10.0  10.0  20.2  0.0
comuter                            per annum                                                   3.2   3.2  3.2   3.2   3.2          16.0  10.0  20.2  0.0                  I
furniture                          per annum                                                   0.0   0.6   0.8  0.0   0.0          4.0  10.0  20.2   0.0        "    -
8dbtet1                                                                                          6.0  -6.0   6.0  -6.0   6.0       -To0.1 
3. Other adoinistrative expensa       per annum                                                   2.5   2.5   2-5  2.5   2.5         12.5  10.0  S.   0.0                   .
sttetal                                                                                             46.148.1- 46.-1  40.-1 40.1      -240.4
vowa                                                                                                     103.4 i-28i  7W6.  6-2.7  57.?    1-500.9
Tue May 03 12:45O22 1994
'tW
00
0
1-1 Coconut Desveloyment\.Takarta



Indonesia
Integrated  waq  Dev.loveut Prol-ct
Table 601. Rural Roads and Bridges
7aabi
PDaLled Ceet
MFp.tillion)
Paraeters (in *)
Phy.        Gross
Quantities                  unit                          Base cost                         Coant. Ib:.  Tax
Unit  94/95 95/   96/97 97/98 98/99 99/00 Total Cost   94/95   95/96 - /97   27/9B   90/9    99/00   Total Rate -xcb. Radte
Z.  Xeetat Cents
A. eamds aind bx*dpma
DmA_  I & XI
Rehabilitation of road
and aspbalting 13.0 i)         km                 6.04  9.06     -      -  15.1  50.3       -        -   304.0   456.0       -        -   760.0  15.0  40.3  10.0
Rebabilitation of bridge$ (5) amount                                                          -       -    76.5   114.9        -        -   191.3  15.0  40.3  10.0
otal-                                                                                                     -   380.5   50.8        -       -   951.3
*. RuIate
Ne jetty, Denkdang I             aount                                                        -       -    40.3    60.4        -        -   100.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
Racoostructlon of
Pudiag jetty                 amount                                                         -   120.8  101.2         -       -        -   302.0  15.0  40.3  10.0
Total                                                                                                  -   120.8   602.0   631.2        -       - 1,353.9
Thu May 12 12:54204 1994
0
lt
I" R
1-1 Rura1 Roada and Bridges\Wambi



Ihdoneaia
Inteograted Swamp Development Project
Table 602. Rural Roads and Bridges
Riau
oled Cots
(Pp. Million)
Parameters (in 8)
pby.        Gross
Guantities                 Unit                          Base Cost                        Cont. For.  Tax
Unit  94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 99/00 Total Coat   94/95   95/96   96/9       7 91/98   98/99   9900   Total  Rate  Exch. Rate
I.  meat,mmt Cenot
A. Sntk Kixi
1.     s  tridgeo
Asphalt road (3.0 a)     km       -  10.2  15.3      -     -     -  25.5 120.8        - 1,232.1 1,848.2       -       -       - 3,000.3  15.0  40.3  10.0
Bridge (2)               a        -      8    20    20    12     -    60  14.1        -   122.7  281.9   201.9   169.1        -   045.6  15.0  40.3  10.0
SZtotax                                                                                  - 1,344.9 2,130.1  281.9   169.1        - 3,925.9
2. Mavigati
Extension of
J*ty Block C         4mount                                                        -    29.0    43.5        -       -       -    72.5  15.0  40.3  10.0
New letty
Block A              amount                                                        -    58.0   87.0         -       -       -   145.0  15.0  40.3  10.0
Subotal                                                                                  -    87.0  130.5        -       -       -   211.4
Subtotal                                                                                    - 1,431.8 2,260.5   281.9  169.1        - 4,143.3
a. RCU  Cnaki IX
Upgrading of road           km        -     4     6     -     -      -    10  40.3       -   161.1  241.6        -       -       -   402.7  15.0  40.3  10.0
Rehabilitation of bridges amount                                                         -    16.1   24.2        -       -       -    40.3  15.0  40.3  10.0
Total                                                                                            -   609.0 2,526.3   281.9  169.1         - 4,56.
Thu May 12 12:54:10 1994
00
fl
-IP-
0
2-1 Rural Roads and Bridges\Riau



Irdonesla
Integrated Samp Developmnt Project
Table 603. Rural Roads and Bridges
West Kalimantan
Detall4 coote
IRp. Nillionl
Pararters (in 8)
Ouantitios                                                          th~~~~~~~~~~~~~fy. Gos
Cuantities          ~~~Unkit                      Base Cost                        Cont. For.   Tax
Unit 94/95 95/94 96/97 97/98 98/99 99/00 Total Cost   94/95   95l96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   Total Rate   xch. Rat,
2. ?metim_ t costs
A. beSM *a"^ a Sol Wsaft
Earth road (2.5.)               km        -  5.36  8.04     -     -     -  13.4  42.3        -   226.6   339.9               -       -   566.5  15.0  40.3  10.0
Asphalt road (2.5m)              km       -  8.88 13.32     -     -     - 22.2  84.6         -   750.9 1,126.3       -       -       - 1,877.2  15.0  40.3  10.0
Asphalt road (3.0m)              kt       -  0.92  1.30     -     -  _ -   2.3 120.8         -   111.1  166.7        -       -       -  277.0  15.0  40.3  10.0
bridge (4)                      m         -    32   48      -     -     -    80   3.0        -    96.6   145.0       -       -       -   241.6  15.0  40.3  10.0
Sel Bulan jetty               amount                                                         -     8.1    12.1       -       -       -    20.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
S       lbtota,.                                                                                - 1,193.3 1,790.0       -       -        - 2,983.3
B. 5d 1e, l      . .S
and|g .asa, Bab te
1. Earth road (2.5)              km       -     -     4     6     -     -    10  42.3        -       -   169.1  253.7        -       -   422.8  15.0  40.3  10.0
2. Asphalt road (2.5.            km       -     - 12.72 19.08     -     -  31.8  84.6        -       - 1,075.6 1,613.4       -        - 2,688.9  15.0  40.3  10.0
3. Asphalt road (3.05)           km       _     -  7.76 11.64     -     -  19.4 120.8        -       -   931.4 1,406.1       -       - 2,343.5  15.0  40.3  10.0
4. Bridge (4)                    m        -     -    40    60     -     -   100   3.0        -       -   120.8   181.2       -        -   302.0  15.0  40.3  10.0
S. Datz ad exitis  lettas
Air Putih                  amount                                                         -       -     8.1    12.1       -       -    20.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
Ams Deras                  amount                                                         -       -     8.1    12.1       -        -    20.1  15.0  40.3  10.0              I
Des& Kubu                  aMount                                                         -       -     8.1    12.1       -       -   20.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
Sbtt                                                                                         -       -    24.2    36.2       -       -   60.4                                  o
6. New jetty at Sei Nipab     amunt                                                          -       -    32.2    48.3   _            -    80.5  15.0  40.3  10.0              0
C. rAr    Kw   and Sa Rmtm                                                                      -       - 2,359.2 3,538.9      -         - 5,898.1  1
Protection of canals             km     1.2   1.8     -     -     -     -      3   3.0     3.6     5.4       -       -       -       -      9.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
Dttension of Kakap jetty        m        12    18     -     -     -     -    30   7.0    84.6   126.0        -       -       -        -   211.4  15.0  40.3  10.0
total                                                                                             88.2 21,325.6  449.2 3,538.9        -         - 9,101.9
Tu May 12 1252tS48 1994
0-8
1-1 ftral Roads and Or1dges\Wast Kalireatam



Indonesia
Integrated Swamp Development Project
Table 701. Household Water Supply
Jambl
Dertaild abate
14. IllioaX
p   tern t' 
Pay.       Gross
ua"tlties                      Unit                       Base cost                      Coat. Fot.  tax
Unit    _9S  95/96  96/91  97/90  9S/99  99700  Sotal Cost  94/95  95/96  95/97  97/98   9/99  n9Jo    Total Rat- Bach. Rate
S. Investet oot
A. Vltlage mutge
toees    ir
Drilliag and testing   amount                                                               33.1   34.1   33.1        -      -       -  100.4  10.0 25.3  0.0
Village syts          village       -       -       -     10      10     10      30 50.2       -      -           502.1  502.1  502 .1 15062. 15.0 25.3 10.0
Subtotal                                                                                       33.1   34.1   33.1  502.1  502.1  502.1 1,606.
B. _bmaebe4 wete  eqlR
Rantau Rasau         household      -  670.5    894 1,117.5 1,112.5  670.5  4,470  0.5         -  336.6  449.9  561.1  561.1  336.6 2,244.3 IS.0 25.3  10.0
Sluang Puding        household      - 112.05   149.4  106.75  166.7S 112.05    247  0.5        -   56.3   7S.0   93.0   93.S   56.3  375.1  15.0 25.3  10.0
Laubur               household      -   80.4  107.2    134    134   60.4    536  O.S           -   40.4   53.6   67.3   67.3   40.4  269.1  15.0 25.3  10.0
Paeusiran            household      - 215.55  207.4  359.25  359.25  215.55   1,437  0.5       -  106.2  144.3  100.4  160.4  106.2  721.5  15.0 25.3  10.0
Dendang I and II     household      -  290.4  387.2    484    464  290.4  1.936  0.5           -  145.8  194.4  243.0  243.0  145.6  972.0 15.0  25.3  10.0
8.teXl                                                                                            -  682.3  916.44 1,145.5 1,8145.5  6 .3 4,581.9
C. Training tor
local technicians      amount                                                                   -   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  100.0 10.0  0.0  10.0
letow                                                                                               33.1  741.4  969.5 1,667.6 1,667.6 1,209.4 6,260.5
Tu lOy 03 12t42t26 1994
C~
'0
Indonesia 
Integrated Swa  Developmnt Project
Table 702. Household Water Supply
Rlau
Detailed CDt.
(Rip., hIliIon5
Paraceters tin %I
Eby.       Gross
gantities                 unit                        Base cost                      Cankt. For.  Tax
Unit   94/95  95/96  96J97 97/90  98099 99/00total Cost  94/95  95/96  96/97  9/9   9099  9900  To t             oRate  brch. Rate
s. Zstet Cent
A. Villge centre water supply     village      -      5     5      5      5     5    25 50.2        -  251.0  251.0  251.0  251.0  251.0 1,255.2  15.0 25.3  10.0
B. Reseod  moter ewwl
Delta Retab                   household     - 223.05  297.4 371.75 371.75 223.05 1,407  0.5      -  112.0  149.3  186.6  106.6  112.0  746.6 15.0  25.3 10.0
Tluk Kiambaag                housebold     - 135.9  101.2  226.5 226.5 115.    906  0.5        -   63.2   91.0  113.7  113.7   68.2  454.9 15.0 25.3 10.0
luala Cinaku It               household     - 113.4  151.2   169   189 113.4   756  0.5          -   56.9   75.9   94.9   94.9   56.9  379.6 IS.0 25.3 10.0
Slat Kitt (Block Al           houseold      -  8.0S   26.0  49.75  74.75  93.85   254  O.S       -    4.4   13.5   25.0   37.5   47.1  127.5 15.0 25.3 10.0
Silt Kir  (Block A, B, C and Dl household   - 269.7  359.6 449.S 449.5 269.7 1,790  0.5          -  3 13S.4  160.   225.2  22.2  135.4  902.t 15.0 25.3 10.0
Bobtotal                                                                                            -  322.0o  510.2  645.9  6C50.5  4 -19.2 2, 611. 3
C. Training for
local technicians               amount                                                            -   IS.0   1S.0   1S.0   15.0   15.0   75.0 10.0  0.0  10.0
goaaj                                                                                                    -  643.0  i76.2  912. 924.5  605.3 1,941.5                         3
1u Ma 03 12:47$44 1994                                                                                                                                                    lo
0



Indonesia
Integrated Swamp DevelopmeDt Project
Table 703. Household Water Supply
Western Kal imantan
SutrAled Costa
(Rp. Million)
Parameters in I
Phy.         os
Quantities                      Unit                        Base Cost                      Cont. For.  Tax
Unit    94/9S  95/96  96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  Total Cost  94/95  95/96  96/97  91/9e  98/99   99/00  Total Rate Exch. Rate
1. _       I Co"tn
A. Nousehold syst_
Sei Kakap        household      - 1,057.5  1,410 1,762.5 1,762.5 1,057.5  7,050  0.5        -  530.9  707.9  804.9  884.9  530.9 3,539.6  15.0  25.3 10.0
Pinang Luar      household      -   68.1   90.8  113.5  113.5   68.1    454  0.5            -   34.2   45.6   57.0   57.0   34.2  227.9 15.0  25.3  10.0
Rasau Jaya       household      -  40e.9  S45.2  681.5  681.5  400.9  2,726   0.5           -  205.3  273.1  342.2  342.2  205.3 1,369.7  15.0  25.3  10.0
Sei Rulan        household      -  46.65   62.2  77.75  71.75   46.65    311  0.5           -   23.4   31.2   39.0   39.0   23.4  156.1  15.0  25.3 10.0
Alr Putih        household      -  58.65   78.2  97.75   97.75  58.65    391  0.5           -   29.4   39.3   49.1   49.1   29.4  196.3  15.0  25.3  10.0
Sei Nipan        household      -  138.9  18S.2  231.5  231.5  138.9    926  0.5                69.7   93.0  116.2  116.2   69.7  464.9 1S.0  25.3  10.0
Arus Derus       household      -  21.45   28.6  35.75   35.75   21.45    143  0.5          -   10.8   14.4   17.9   17.9   10.8   71.8  1S.0  25.3  10.0
Desa Kubu        household      -  38.85   51.8  64.75  64.75   38.85    259  0.b           -   19.5   26.0   32.5   32.5   19.5  130.0  15.0  25.3  10.0
Olak-Olak Kubu   household      -  96.75    129 161.25  161.25   96.75    645  0.5          _   48.6   64.0   81.0   S1.0   48.6  323.8  15.0  25.3  10.0
Jangkang I       household      -   43.8   58.4       73      73   43.8    292  0.5         -   22.0   29.3   36.1   36.1   22.0  146.6  15.0  25.3  10.0
Subtotal                                                                                       -  993.9 1,325.2 1,656.5 1,656.5  993.9 6,625.9
S. Training for
local technicians  amount                                                                    -      -    3.8    S.9   1S.0   21.3   40.8  10.0  0.0  10.0
Total                                                                                               - -993.9 1,328.9 1,665.21,6711.5 1,015.1 6,674.6
Tue May 03 12:48:01 1994
0F
, si
O
u
0
1-1 Household Water Supply\Mestern KCaliantan



Indonesia
Integrated Swamp Development Project
Table 801. 8erbak Boundaries and Park Managemet
DataIe coot.
(Rp. Million)
Parameters (i 82
Quantities                 Unit                         Blase Cost                       Cont; For.  Tax
Unit 94J95 SS/S6 96197 91/96 99/99 9J00 Total Cost  94795   95/96   96/97   97/9   93/99  f9900   total Rate  Exach. Rate
z. Zm.ast costs
A. 3. _ah beemiattea  W*Sp az       t
1. Extension ot boundaries
and buffer Zones                  mount                                                        -    16.5   16.5        -       -       -    33.1  15.0  40.3  10.0
2. Oezadq of off""
01n4 taamsopct t L*llti
Clivl wrks                       amunt                                                        -   125.3  125.3        -        -       -   250.5  15.0  40.3  10.0
Vebicles                         aount                                                        -   130.9       -       -       -       -   130.9  10.0  60.3  10.0
Equipment                        amount                                                       -  218.         -       -       -       -    18.0  10.0  35.3 10.0
Gehtetal                                                                                              MM7.2 153                               389.5
3. Staff development
and training                      -munt                                                              I 1562    15.2   15.2   1S.2      -    60.9  10.0   0.0  10.0
aehtet3                                                                                                  306.0  157.5  -15.2    15.2         -    9.
3.  _et.-eosOa* dsvel_nt
Park boundary marking
using usetul plants               amount                                                       -    90.0   90.0        -       -       -   180.0  0.0  10.1  10.0
Mangrove rehabilitation                unt                                                            -  _    46.7        -       -       -    46.7  10.0  S.1  0.0
Agricultural developent             amount                                                        -       -   185.1  370.2  370.2         -   925.5  10.0  10.1  0.0
LanA titling                        amount                                                       -   132.9  265.9  132.9         -        -   531.7  10.0  10.1  0.0
fubtetal                                                                                             -   223.0  5'8 7.7  503.1   37 0.2      T- 604.0
C. ftals for _peeiA 
a"aeleei Lew amplantiag
aboademed  ra
Riau                                amunt                                                        -   20.8   20.8   20.8           -       -    62.4  10.0  15.2  0.0
West Kalimantan                     amount                                                             * 20.e  42   0420.          8           62   10.0  15.2   0. 0
lebtetal                                                                  ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-4.1.6   .6 .6   6   - 124.7
and upport coats                     amount                                                        -   207.9   859.4    9.4    09.4        -   476.0  10.0  15.2   0.0
-   778.4  87.    49-.3  4j74-.8          2,778.3
Tue,Mny 03 12s48s28 1994
0 
, e
N3
1-1 Berb k Boundaries and Park Managemenat



- 112 -                         ANNEX11
Table I
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED AL1OCAnON OF LOAN
Percentage of
Amount                Expenditures LA
Category                           (US$ million)            to be Financed
1. Civil Works for:                                             60%
(a) Parts A and D                 25,650
(b) Part B2                          150
(c) Part C1                          200
(d) Part E                           100
2. Equipment and Materials  L Ic for:                      100%; 100%; 65%
(a) Par A and D                      300
(b) Part B1                          230
(c) Parts B2, B3 and B4              340
(d) Parts Cl and C2                  210
(e) Part C3                          100
(t) Part E                            20
3. AgrI4lualuabor for:                3,700                      50%
Part Cl
4. AgrIcultual Inputs Id for:                                   91%
(a) Part B1                        1,450
(b) Parts B2, B3 and B4            3,650
(c) Part C1                        3,600
S. Services for Land TtfIg for:         900                     100%
Part C3 and E1(c)(jii)
6. Studies                                                      100%
(a) Part Fl                          700
(b) Part F2                          900
(c) Part E                            50
7. Training for:                                                100%
(a) Parts A and D                    550
(b) Part B1                           75
(c) Parts B2, B3 and B4            1,750
(d) Part C2                           75
Continued



- 113 -                          ANNEX 11
Table 1
Proposed Alocation of Loan (cont'd)
Percentage of
Amount                 Expenditures La
Category                            (US$ million)             to be Financ
8. Engineering Srces for Surveys,       5,500                     100%
0D.gm, and Supervhlon of Construction
for Pars A and D
9. Consultants Services for:                                      100%
(a) Parts A, and F3                 4,000
(b) Part B1                           600
(c) Parts B2, B3 and B4             2,000
(d) Part E                          1,800
10. Unallocated                         6,400
TOTAL                           65,000
Key: Part A          = Water Management (DGWRD)
Bi        = Food Crop Production - Agricultural Research (AARD)
B2, B3, B4 = Food Crop Production - Extension (DGFCH)
Cl, C2    = Tree Crop Development - Coconut Plantg (DGE)
C3        = Tree Crop Development - Land Titing (BPN)
D         = Rural Infrastructure (DOWRD)
E         = Coastal Zone Land Use Management (DGPHPA)
Fl, F3    = Studies (DGWRD)
IP2       = Studies (DGPCH)
La Of approved expenditures.
Lb Excluding vehicles which GOI will finance.
/c 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory prices) for locally manufactured equipment and 65% for
locally procured items.
/d Excluding fertilizer which GOI will finance.
May 6, 1994



- 114 -                         ANNEX11
Table 2
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EsTmATED DIStSmT ScEEDuLE
IBRD Fiscal                      During
Year and Semester    Profile La   Semester         Cumulative    Cumulative
(%)        (US$ million)    (US$ million)   (%)
1995  1st             3            2.0              2.0             3
2nd             6           2.8               4.8             7
1996  1st            10            3.2              8.0            12
2nd            18           6.5              14.5            22
1997  1st            30            6.5             21.0            32
2nd            38           7.7              28.7            44
1998  1st            46            7.7             36.4            56
2nd            50           7.7              44.1            68
1999  1st            58            7.6             51.7            80
2nd            66           4.4              56.1            86
2000  1st             74           3.7             59.8            92
2nd            82           2.8              62.6            96
2001  1st            90            2.4             65.0           100/1
2nd            94
2002  1st             98
2nd           100
La Standard disbursement profile for Indonesia, agriculture projects, by semester after
Board approval, COMDO, August 2, 1993.
1k Loan effectiveness date assumed as September 1, 1994; Loan closing date as
September 30, 2000.
May 6, 1994.



- 115 -                                           ANNEX 12
Table 1
INTATw  WMAS OE'JAEU PROJ=
Financial and Econeece Prie.e
(in R  '000)
Finnceial        Economic
Unit    1Q94  S004 1/    194   2000 1V
Outpute
Fielt crepe
Paddy                          ton S40.000            8o7.000
Seyb-enp                        kg   0.es              O.8B    0.621
Coaava                          kg   0.0 0             0.080
Maize                           kg   0.275              0.275
Coffee                          kg    1.000             1.000
Banana                          ke   0. 12              0. 12
Coconut producte
Coconut nut                000 nut  80.000             64.000  68.000
Copra (15)                      kg   0.886              0.388    0.404
Inpute
Seed- end planting material
Paddy need (HYV)                kg   0.600              0.660
Paddy (local)                   kg   0.500              0.550
Paddy need                      kg   0.500              0.50
Caeava eticke                atick    0.080             0.00
Maie neeod                      kg   0.800              0.880   0.890
Soybean aecd                    kg    1.000             0.800   0.780
Ferti I imzre
Urea 2/                         kg   0.280   0.482   0.6S0   0.412
TSP 2/                          kg   0.350   0.499    0.455   0.499
KCL 2/                          kg   0.350   0.862   0.860   0.862
Dolomite                        kg   0.200              0.200
Borax                           kg   0.001              0.001
Copper sulfate                  kg    1.100             1.800
Plant protection
tneecticide-                 litre   15.000            15.000
Rodenticide                   litre   8.000             6.000
Herbicide                    lItre  20.000             20.000
Pesticidee                   litre  15.000             15.000
Along 2/ chemical            I itre  18.750            18. 70
Oieael oil                   litre   0.450              0.450
Nateriale
Chainsaw rental                 hr   2.500              2.500
Toole & equipment             unit   1.000              1.000
Fence                          not  82.000             S2.000
Lining pege                    not   1.0OC              1 000
Seedlinae                     unit   2.900              5.000
Cover crop neeed                kg   6.000
Other
Animal trection           4-hr. day   5.000             5.000
Labor
Annual baeis
Monthly-flexible
unakilled labor              day    3.500             8.500
Male Labor
October mala labor          Oct.od   4.000              4.000
November male labor         Nov.od   3.500              8.500
December male day           Dec.md   8.500 S.S00
January ale labor            Jan.ad   4.000             4.000
February male labor         Feb.ad   4.000              4.000
March male labor            Mbr.md   4.000              4.000
April male labor            Apr.od   8.600              8.600
may male labor              May.od   4.000              4.000
June axle labor             Jun.od   a.000              8.000
July sale labor             Ju .ead   8.000             8.000
Augut Male labor            Aug.md   4.000              4.000
September asle labor        Sep.ad   4,000              4.000
Female Labor
October female labor        Oct.fd    8.000             8.000
November female labor       Nov.fd    2.700             2.700
December female labor       Oec.fd    2.700             2.700
January female labor        Jan.fd    8.000             8.000
February femle labor        Feb.fd    8.000             3.000
March femalo labor          Nmr.fd    8.000             8.000
April female Iaor           Apr.fd    2.700             2.700
May female labor            moy.fd    8.000 .000
Jun. female labor           Jun.fd    2.000             2.000
July female day             Jul.fd    2.000            2.000
August femle labor          Aug.fd   a.000              8.000
September femle labor       Sop.fd   8.000              8.000
1/ Saoe  e in 1994 unlee indicated otherwlie
2/ Financial pricox of ferti iizere expected to Increase overtim  due to
projected increaeee in world mrket pricee and elimination of subeidlee.



Indonesia
Integrated Swamp DevelopmerA Project
Project Suvmary
3oUWUC  _  4Msam)
(In np. million)
April -- march
Increments
1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8         9         10        11         12        13      14 to 30
paddy                                  -0.2       -0.5     131.7   2,323.5   0,367.7  14,617.6  20,199.2  22,910.8  23,463.4  23,240.1  23,240.1  23,240.1  23,240.1  23,240.1
Soybeans                                  -          -         -      136.3      702.2   1,882.2   3,079.7   3,753.3   3,909.0   3,909.0   3,909.0   3,909.0   3,909.0   3,909.0
Cassava                                                               152.1      630.1   1,260.4   1,907.2   2,282.3   2,376.7   2,376.7   2,376.7   2,376.7   2,376.7   2,376.7
Maizc                                     -          -         -        7.3       49.4     130.S      270.1     374.9      404.4      404.4     404.4      404.4     404.4      404.4
Coffee                                  0.0        0.0       0.0        6.4       31.2      45.S       67.5      83.7      8s.4        80.4      88.4       88.4      88.4       88.4
Banana                                    -                   O .      63.8      316.3     412.2      522.8     574.6      582.0      582.0     582.0     502.0      562.0      502.0
Coconut nut                            -0.0       -0.0      -0.0      193.0      717.5   1,264.6   1,908.5   2,260.7   2,331.6   2,331.6   2,331.6   2,331.6   2,331.6   2,331.6
Copra (159) 1-                                       -         -      334.1   1,497.5 _3630.0   6 600 7   9,707.2  12,700.2  15,373.4  17,345.1  18,574.9  19,213.2  19,439.5
lob-total ObI%" Pzedootiou               -0.3       -O.S     131.7   3,216.5  12,392.1  23,251:0  34,55:5.  41,947.4  45,663.8  48,305.6  50,277.3  51,507.1 -52,145.5  52,371.7
..,dstie. coat
?mzebnsd Impute
Fertilizers                      295.1      091.9   1,485.4   2,007.2   1,796.2   1,286.4        592.2                     ------
Plant protection                  113.0     281.9      368.7     338.7      140.3       57.8          -         --                              ----
MAtteri1l                         394.2     854.1      876.0      631.2     147.0      274.0      268.0     168.0--                                        ---
8*b-fetal. Pezebaos  Iqmpte         802.3  2F,028.0   2,730.1   2,977.1  27,00-3.4   ,682           860.2     168.0--                                        --
Sired labex
Monthly-flexible
Untskllled labor              1,026.9   2,716.4   3 7S62   3,904.3   2,403.1   1. 406.0O    551.6          29.4          ------                                                     I.
mb-total Znw.otm     feet.          1892   4,744:3  6I,iiI3   6,81.4   4,486.5   3,024.1   1,411.8              197.4                     -         -          ----
Perebased Impute
Seeds and planting material         0.0        0.0       0.0      118.5     412.3      724.2   1,069.8   1,263.4   1,307.7   1,307.7   1,307.7   1,307.7   1,307.1   1,207.?
Feirtilizers                          -          -         -       69.8     728.9   2,009.0   3,398.0   4,304.6   4,369.4   4,337.3   4,316.5   4,294.6   4,294.6   4,294.6
Plant protection                    0.8       0.0        0.0       82.4     611.8   1,532.3   2,564.0   3,143.1   3,233.1   3,191.1   3,191.1   1,191.1   3,191.1   3,191.1
8mb-fetal Purchased Impout            0.8        0.0       0.8  -2 O"i   1-,-753.0   4255   7,031.8   0,711.2  8W,-910.3   8,836.2   8,815.4  8-, 79-3.5  8-, 79-3.5  8-,7193. 5
Monthly-flxilble
unskilled labor                   0.0       0.0        0.5      545.2   2,325.S   4.129.9   6,188.0   7,709.9   8,34S.6   e,776.6   9,104.3   0,327.3   9,432.2   9,469.4
9mb-total Obeamtia  Caste               0.0        0.0        0.5     815.0   4 07e.5   8.395 5  13 219.8  16,421.1  17,255.9  17,612.? 7 99.   10,120.8  18,22S.6  18,~262.9
Bob-Tetal 9*040etiem Coat             1,829.2   4,744.4   6,486.e   7,697.2   8,5S65.0  11,'419:6  Ti1:6  16,618.5  17,255.9  17,612.7  17,919.7  18,10.8  18,225.6  18262.
Otbox cents
Vatiable Investment costs           3,281.1   7,885.5   9242.4   9,453.6   1,347.3              --                             -----
Project-level overheads             9,762.2   9,541.6  10,086.8   8,934.5   3,606.0   2,406.1------ 
Incremmatal 04W costs                     -          -     273.2      424.4     805.4      884.4      884.4     884.4    8184.4       884.4        884.4   684.4     884.4      884.4
6mb-fetal Otbe  Imets                13,043.3  17,427.1  19,602.4  18,012.5   5,758.7  37,290".5        884.4      884.4     8804.4     884.4   8084.4       88e4.4    084.4      8894.4
Otbaz 0.151ma
Varlable investfent COS)ES          2,142.6   9,592.0  14,005.5   3,800.0            -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Incremental 08K costs                     -          -     258.4      540.9     874.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099,4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1 099.4
lab-fetal Otbex OstSlen               2,142.    9,592.0  1.4,263.9   4,340.9       874.4   1 099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4   1,099.4
ifIwAm                             1 ..LI15   317,763.5  4 !I. 3   30,50.   15T19. 1 - *is so      1661.   18,602.3  19,239.   19,75096.   19,903.5  20,104.6  20, 20-9.4  20,246 7
Sush Fleet-7,1. -31,763.9 -40,221.4 -7641-'2,806.1   7,4.    790223,345.1  26,624.1  2879.                                                      0,7.93, 40-2.5  31,.936.0  32,'125:0
lOftR- 14.9St, WV - 64,5S13.25S4
Fri Apr 30 09:25:40 1993                                                                                                                         ,



- 117-                          Abh3
Tle 3
IN GRATED SWAMS DEVELOPMNOT PROJECT
EcoNoaNc ANALYSI BY SCMe
Puovincel                   Cultived
Scheme                        Arm          tR              NPV
(bi)        (%)          (      )
Jambi
1. Rantau Raa and Simwg Pudl       8,200S-  29.6               12,430
2. Pamusirn and Lambut            10,240        48.2           26,09
3. Dendang I and 11                4,900        22.5            9,354
4. Jambi Coconut                   5,000        15.3            7,333
Ri-u
1. Siak Kiri                       4,400        18.5            5382
2. Kuala Cinaku I                  1,115        13.2              729
3.TelukKWmbang                     1,200        11.9              54
4. Delta Reteh                     3,974        19.8            4,341
5. Riau Cocont                     5,000        14.4            3,007
West      a
1. Kpuas Kfcl I and 11             4,700        27.3           10,231
2. Pnmg LAr                          700        17.4            8,865
3. Rasau Jaya                      4,640        20.3            6,193
4. Sei Kakap                       2,250        22.2            2,653
5. Se Bulan                         590         20.6              681
6. Olak Olak Kubu                  1,750        21.2            2,419
7. Air Puti                       1,900        37.6            4,127
8. Iangkang                        1,170        27.4            2,258
9. Arus Deras                       300          8.8              (8
10. Sel Nipah                      2,200         7.7             (811)
II. DesaKubu                         87S         9.5              (63)
12. Kdimanto  ownut:   2,50012.6                   .4,245



- 118 -                              3ANNE13
DONESIA
NTEGRATED SW    DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECr SUPERVSON PLAN
The mix of specialties and frequency and duration of missions likely to
be needed to ensure adequate project supervision is as follows:
Mission    Time           Specialty/Duration Week)              Total
No.    Mo/Yr       Eng.   A.   TC   AE   Env.  Soc.    Staff  Weeks
1       7/94     2      2      2    2    1        1        6      10
2      10/94     2      2      1    2    1        1        6       9
3       4/95     2      2      1    2    1        1        6       9
4      10/95     2      1      1    2    1        2        6       9
5       4/96     2      1      -    1    1        -        4       5
6      10/96     2      1      1    2    1        2        6       9
7       4/97     2      1      -    1    1        -        4       5
8      10/97     2      1      1    2    1        -        5       7
9       4/98     1      1      -    1    1        -        4       4
10      10/98     2      1      1    2    1        -        5       7
11       4/99     1      1      -    1    1        -        4      4
12      10/99     1      1      1    1    1        -        5      5
13       4/00     2      2      2    2    2        -        5      10
Eng. - Engineer                     AE   - Agricultural Economist
A     - Agriculturalist             Env. - Environmental Specialist
TC   - Tree Crop Specialist         Soc.  - Sociologist



- 119 -                         ANNEX 14
@ONESU
IEWGRATED SWAMPS DEVELO                               PROJECT
SELC   DOCUMEN iN TE PROJECT Fa
1.        Consulting Services for Integrated Swamps Development Project
Preparation; Main Report, Technical Reports (in 24 Volumes), and Thematic Maps;
BCEOM/RDC, September-December 1991.
2.         Addendum to the Final Report; BCEOM/RDC, December 1991.
3.        Environmental Impact Assessment Integrated Swamps Development Project
(Riau, Jambi and West Kalimantan); Asian Wetland Bureau; November 1992.
4.        Environmental Management Plan Integrated Swamps Development Project
(Riau, Janbi and West Kalimantan); Asian Wetland Bureau, December 1992
5.        Buffer Zones Development of the Berbak National Park; Asian Wedand
Bureau, October 1992.
6.        Teclhical Assistance to BAPPEDA of Riau and West Kalimantan:
Environmental Profiles of the Coastal Wedand Areas of Riau, Sumatra and West
Kalimanan, Kalimantan (two Volumes); Asian Wetand Bureau, November 1992.
7.        Design Concept Report; EUROCONSULT/P.T. INDAH KARYA, May
1993.
8.        Preparatory Services Integrated Swamp Development Project (in 17
vohmes), EUROCONSULT/P.T. INDAH KARYA, August 1993.
9.        Hybrid Coconut Technology; World Bank, Working Paper, July 1992.
10.       Research Proposal on Parming System Technology for btegrated Swamps
Development for Integrated Swamps Development Project (ISDP); Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development, 1992.
11.       Proposed Agriculural Component Under Integrated Swamp Development
Project; Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture, September 1992.
12.       Consulting Services on Baseline Studies for ISDP in Jambi and West
Kalimantan, October 1990.
13.       Tidal Swap FParming Systems Development in Indonesia (with refence
to South Sumatra) Indexes/EUROCONSULT/ILRI-Jakarta, November 1991.



Indonesia - Integrated Swanem Development Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1993      1994       1996       1996     1997         1998      1999       2
iD    Name                                                    Start     FirAsh   2P31Q Q            1 h2|Q3P 01  21031Q Q1   1Q2103 1Q            210310 Q1 Q2
1    CIVIL WORKS: Drainage, and Irrigation Structures, & Roads  4/11/93   2/24198
2        GROUP 1                                              411193   8114196
3            Design Phase                                     411/93   4125194
4               Short term Consultant Mobilization            411193    411/93
5               Review Existing Studies and Designs           4/2/93   5113193
6                Draft Design Concept Paper                  4130/93   5127193
7               Clear Design Concept with Bank                6/7/93   6111193
a               Amend/Correct existing Designs               6/14193   7/12/93  3
9                Prepare Draft Tendar Docs                   7/13193    8/2/93   9
10               Clear Designs/Tender Docs with Bank          10/1/93   4/25/94
11           Procurement Phase                                 6/1194   10/5/94
12               Issue Invitation to Bid                       611/94    611194                                                                                    o
13               Preparation of Bids                           612194   7115/94
14               Opening of Bids                               8/1/94    8/1/94
15               Evaluation of Bide                            812/94   9115194
16               Clear Recommendation with Bank               9/16194   9/26/94
17               Award Contract                               1015/94   1015/94
18           Constructlon Phase                               1016/94   6114198
19               Contractor Mobilization                      1016/94  10/10/94
20               Construction in Progress                    10/11/94   6/14196
21
22       GROUP 2                                              1115/94   6/13/97
23           Design Phase                                     1/15/94   5/28/95
24               Long term Consultant Mobilization            1/15/94   1/17/94                                                                            -
o IJI
Project: Indonesia - ISOP          Critical                      Progress                     Summary                               9                  m
Date: 5/ 11194                    Noncritical i'                Milestone  *                 Rollod Up   >                                                        U,
Page 1



Indonesia - Integrated Swamps Development Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997       1998      1999       20
ID    Name                                                    Start     Finish   Q2|Q3|Q4 a2JQ3JQ4Q1Q2JQ3 Q41                      Q 31Q4 Q 1Q2Q3  34 12|3
25               Review Existing Studies and Desgns          11/16194   2128195
26               Clear Schemes/Design Concepts with the Bank   3/1/95   3110/95
27               Amend Existing Designs & Prepare New Designs   3/11/95   3t1 S95 
28               Prepare Draft I Tendar Docs                   5/11/95   511 St95
29               Clear Designs/Tender Docs with Bank          5116/95   5J26/95
30           Procurement Phase                                 6/1/95   10/5/95
31               Issue Invitation to Bid                       6/11/95    6/11/95
32               Preparation of Bids                           6/2/95   7/14/95
33               Opening of Bids                               811195    8/11/95
34               Evaluation of Bids                            812/95   9/15/95             f
35               Clear Recommendation with Bank               9/16/95   9126/95
36               Award Contract                               10/5/95   10/5/95
37           Construction Phase                               10/6/95   6113/97
38               Contractor Mobilizadon                       10/6/95  10/10/95
39               Construction in Progress                    10/15195   6113197
40
41       GROUP 3                                               713/95   2124/98
42           Design Phase                  7t3195   1112196
43               Review Existing Studies/Designs               7/3195   8/11195
44               Clear Schemes/Design Concepts with the Bank    8114/95   8/25/95
45               Amend Existing Designs and Prepare New Desig   8/28/95  12/29/95
46               Prepare Draft Tender Docs                   12/11/95  12129/95
47               Clear Desgns/Tender Docs with Bank            1/1/196   1112/96
48           Procurement Phase                                2/16/96   6118/96
o ui
I-1%
Project: Indonesia - ISDP          Crideal           _           Progress i;tP    2Summary
Date: 5/111194                     Noncriticafl   *              blilstone  O                 Rolled UpO
Page 2



Indonesia - Integrated Swanmps Development Project
Project ioplementation Schedule
1993      1994       1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      20
ID   Name                                                   Start     Finish                    011230          Q     11 3    1Q23  123    1,23
49              Issue Invitation to Bid                     2116/96   2/16/96            1
50               Preparation of Bids                        2119/96   4/12/98
51               Opening of Bids                            4/15/96   4/15/96            f
52               Evaluation of Bids                         4116/96   5/27/96                                I
53              Clear Recornmendation with Bank             5/28/96   6/10/96
54               Award Contract                             6/18/96   6/18/96
55           Construction Phase                             6/26/96   2/24/98
58               Contractor Mobilization                    6/26196    7/2/96
57               Construction in Progress                    7/3/96   2/24/98
58
59   AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT                                 9/4194   3131/00
60       GROUP 1 (1,500 Farms)                               914/94   3131195
61           Training of Farmers' Groups                     914/94  12/30194            it
62           Distribution of Input Packages                 10/1/94   3/31/95
63       GROUP 2 (3,000 Farms)                               4/3/95   3131/96
64           Training of Farmers' Groups                     4/3/95  12/31/95            1
65           Distribution of input Packages                  7/3/95   3/31/96
66       GROUP 3 (4,500 Farms)                               4/3/96   3/31/97
67           Training of Farmers' Groups                     4/3/96  12/31/96
68           Distribution of Input Packages                  7/2/96   3/31/97
69       GROUP 4 (6,000 Farms)                               4/3/97   3/31/98
70           Training of Farmors' Groups                     4/3/97  12/31/97
71           Distribution of Input Packages                  7/2/97   3131/98
72       GROUP 5 17,500 Farrns)                              4/3/98   3131/99                                                                               (D _              
Project: Indonesia - ISDP     |Critical        _       _       Progress     C       _      Summary
Dete: 5till94         | ~~Noncritical  S      r       Milestone 6>Rolled Up 
Page 3



Indonesia - Integrated Swamps Development Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1993      1994       1995      1996       1997      1998      1999       2t
ID   Name                                                   Start     Finish  a2JQ3JQ4 a I    3JQ4         iih2h314 a1J22jj3J4ja1202 1203    123 
73           Traning of Farmers' Groups                      413N98  12131198
74           Distribution of Input Packages                  712198   3131199
75       GROUP 6 (7,500 Farns)                               4/5/99   3131/00
76           Training of Farmers' Groups                     4/5/99  12/31199
77           Distribution of Input Packages                  7/6t99   3/31100
78
79   COCONUT PLANTING                                        4/1193  11/30/97
80       GROUP1 11,800 ha)                                   4/1193  11/30t94  zI    -,
81           Ordering of Seed Nuts                           411/93   4130t93
82           Land Surveys & Titling                          911193   313194 
83           Planting Nuts in Seed Garden                    4/1194   5/30/94
84           Issuance Land Certificates                      7/4194   9130194
85           Planting Seedlings In Field                    10/3194  11130194
86       GROUP 213,900 ha)                                   4/1194  11130/95
87           Ordering of Seed Nuts                           411194   4130194           f
88           Land Surveys & Titaing                          7/1194   3/31195
89           Planting Nuts in Seed Garden                    413195   5130/95
90           Issuance Land Cenificates                       713/95   9130195
91           Planting Sedlings In Field                     1012195  11/30195
92       GROUP 3 (4.000 ha)                                  4/3196  11/30/96
93           Ordering of Seed Nuts                           4/3195   4130195
94           Land Surveys & Titling                          713195   3131196
95           Planting Nuts In Seed Garden                    411/96   5/30196
98           Issuance Land Certificates                      7/1196   9/30/96 8
Page 4.   .                                      .. .__            o b
Project: Indonesia - ISDP         CrdvUcal   0     u           Pogres                      Surntnery        _La
Date:5/111/94                     Noncritical        ibiiistone                             RotiedUp 
Pege 4



Indonesia - Integaged Swamps Development Project
Project Inifwnentation Schedule
1993      1994      199S      1996      1997      199        999      20
ID   Name                                                 Start    Finish  ia2                           1   3 103gN   Q 141QlfaAQ134 1I Q210324 i
97           Planting Seedlings in Field                  1011190  11/30/96
98       GROUP 412,800 ha)                                 4/1/98  11/30/97
99          Ordedng of Seed Nuts                           4/1/96   4130198                              il
100          Land Survey   1Tifing                          7/1196   3131/97
101          Planting Nuts in Seed Garden                   411l97   5130/97
102          Issuence Lend Certificate                      7/11/97   9/30197
103          Planting SedlingaIn Raid                     tO/1/97  11130/97          _
l  Ia
normh"            Logema                     RobdPage
O@b:611flAF4 j N~~~~~~~~~opdi l_5Rb  



INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
MRD                 DG Estate            DG FCH               BAPPENAS            DGWRD/DOS                BPN                 DG PHPA
j                                                         -                 Codn. Consult                                 -  - 
2                                J~I- -                                        Nat. Secretariatl/              L....                  I 
_1               I                                           I                            I      I
C                I                                           I                            I  I  
PIMPRO                                      PIMPRO                               j     PIMPRO
Research                                  Agricult. Dev.                             Coordinaton &
Management                                  Management                                 Cotrfucidon
Management
   :                                     :            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAPPEDA | 
8 ~ ~~~~~~~                   - - - _r- ---  --                        - - Pr_  _     Sebretar      __   __aV-
11        ~I                                  I                        I        If          
PIMPRO                   PIMPRO                PIMPRO               PIMPRO                PIMPRO               PIMPRO                  PIMPRO 
Reserc                   Tree Crops           Food Crops             O &M                Construction       |Land Titling  |     |Coastal Zone|
---  = ProJect Coordination             Provirncial StrucbLJre: Jambi, Riau & West Kalimantan
PM et Accourtability Line
PIMPRO                 PIProPect Manager                                                                                            sadsPMP4182



THAILAND                                       'to.
Bndo Aceh
BRUNEI         PHILIPPINES
MALAYSIA
Medan                                                       @\                                       f                                                         d
|    , ;, rj      6Frt                  /                     A
SUMATE                                                                           MALAYSIA
Foe fredet "e iBRD 24870                                                                                                                            a  r-
W                       .y ,>,lrvlt.'  1160511nb  Fr,edetoilsee IBRD 24871          i^I',''   A AJ
IBARAT    PAj     /
PadlafgrigO          F/        r debta see IBRD 24869                          I.              S .1. 2
For detail see 18RD 24873  fw dnta,l see 1ER
t    I^ltBl A           -1                               K<Al It,&V,.Q4P  Ii 4:,AH n                s LAWESI
BfANGKA .
C )  04JM  rpr    t                                                            M.IUNG  A I.W47AN
Beokulu-)    StE LATAN                     /                                                                                   Knc"
5'                                           XltPUNG
k,LA.E,i -TF.C.G:.RA
ujwv Pandang0
Bo  .d0t. JAKARTA
lmptng  JhU^UtTA             JAWA
JAWA f       Sema ~JA                 MADURA             NUSA TrN.ZGArP,,.
I N D O N E S I A                            Ya~                  JAWA TIMUR / 1              SUVMAWA
D I YOGYAKARTA                )BAt/S                      (
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                    D   Mtorom
LOMSOK
PROJECr LOCATIONS                                                                                   ,l'A1BA               KUOOg0        ,
0     PROVINCE CAPITALS
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL
PRCMNCE BONDARIES
-       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Es  o       Soo     700     TCO      To xorhis maop has beenf preparted bny T6^efOrwothads I6rtserb The Wod Bank. tff                                     eor 
the covnec  fraetadis far the internal "s of The Word   gj
Sank Group. The denominotions used ond the boundories shown on th,s 6
*    *    ,    *    *    *    *                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~map do not imply. on the port of The World Bank Group, ;any jdmn
tJt s 0S  O       2TOO      400        60 I                                                          on tIhe ieg t of any territory or any endorement ot  t
s_ch boondor.es.     z20C



IBRD 24869
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JAMBI PROJECT AREA
PROJECT SCHEMES
TOWNS
ROADS
_CANALS
RVERS
-- -;  / F--~- -            --         BBe rhala   Strait
~Lamrnr(         \
~~~~~ -.-               arn-u  r;'..  <\ 3>}  
> -''X '** Teluki-
ang~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kjn
K'am>           .- C  t    m\ 0  < \    \  9   ;f-    JNipah
X-                                                             P-.ntng
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
'K  kepMup
.-    \Lmu                                                                        --
NibOngputlh
Rantaurasau
pa                                              t\gS 
Culu
-t~~~~~~~~~~~~t
odow--- --ad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'xa--
bx '0f -LMR
m   d .   mw   d o w   k-* ,   -                                      N       ,
o     iX,fwtr'd s                      Sr0.                              . -  ,A r
ond~~~~~~~s ~~~KILOMETERS                                 tSEA
usdsrsscaeqane                                                      -. -            -       -   -  / 
JUNE 1993



IBRD 24870
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS                              Lubuk Muda*
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RIAU - SIAK PROJECT AREA
PROJECT SCHEMES
VIUAGES                                                                    -
*   TOWNS                             Spo
ROADS                             Sepgtong* 
CAN~LALS                                                 *Tg. layang          (P
RIVERS                  Lubukgaung*
0 lxtgan
Talam
4 Bonmeo 
Langkot
>    - o 0- ~'SungoiaDit
Sepucuk                  Tengah
Gz                      tungot - ~~~~~~ Dar=
,'I
.  - - -  -    TelukMasjid
^ +**9~Benuor .
0  1  2  3  4  5
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  % M11*| ,'
<-~~~~~~~~~ Il   i 
4 ILOETER
mXt ofN The World;                                                                .- f  '
u"of^Wcdd  'S\A S''  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ A,,,   "                           ;    .>~~~2 '
bowxb,im A,.."                   -                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCEAN
sa    o t   . 6NN   on
po0tdf.odwrld Grkco,  Sungoi Berboi              ..
m-   mfio                                                                                     JKAnoT JUE1
JUNE 1993



IBRD 24871
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RIAU - INDRAGIRI PROJECT AREA
PROJEa SCHEMES
MUAAGES
ROADS 
fIttllll  CANALS                           '     \ S
Sungai
w                                           i SE  KwX 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~PAni
41 -                      <s 1u\\
. k4 ::_E-A'. k
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pn  Ki,A a-l
0  1  2  3J  1
Jomb  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~          TIns eqs 15~~~~~~~~~..*.,df05 enpqs
Q0nd  Tdo 5m.5'ftslhonso
on des eq  d  se1 ey.ond
pen Of ICo Wed V=kOss
JUNE 1993



IBRD 24872
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAlUMANTAN BARAT PROJECT AREA
Pontionak
PROJECT SCHEMES
VIUAGES
0   TOWNS
ROADS
I    CANALS
- RVERS
OTeluk Palcdai
I   '.,-NwAxE                                           Ku"i
0        5        10
I        I         I
. . ~~~~~~~~~~~iAlOMEIERS 'wN      
o.to of The WA S ),n ; 0G
0R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h m   v  --                      t 
P                                                                            < bi oioeAn  l7b
JUNE 1993



IBRD 24873
*Lambur      Simbur*
Luar       Naik
*Teluk
Kijing                                                   eSung*itik
OSungailokan
Simpangdotuk$               Sungoijambate
Lambur                                                                                           Sungaisayong*
DaOlam
0
Rantouindah                                        0 Rantomsou
Kotos
Kandis                                 0Sungoirombut
*Airhitamiaut
Sungoipuar
Sungaicemara
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BERBAK NATIONAL PARK AREA
Lobuanpering
BERBAK NATIONa PAPK                                                                                      ^
*    TOWNS
RIVERS
UWA'PNGAOR             *I
X s bSdFc~~~ontak.
by The Worfd80As s*H
r,:>>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mwo ;.                                              i   S 1  o 'hTwnonco
mpa6dxwq          0                   I   ~~~~~0ood  n  ,
KILOMETERS                                               bondb   e goe
D2  Pnse aAP,a,-                                                                                               at,r csaidreIes
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o pB                                          map do not nk,   A
-..                                                                                                             555* 017     J 1993
JUNe 1993



