Environmental
Assessment/Analysis
Reports
Report E0046
Indonesia -
Integrated Swamps
Development Proj ect
EA Category A
Environmental Impact
Assessment
November 1992
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



Second Draft
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
W(RIAU, JAM3BI AND WEST KALIMANTAN)
Prepared for the Directorate of Swamps (PU)
by
tfie Asian We' fland Bureau - Indonesia
1 November 1992
- .
w- -  Ji



Second daft; prinmed I November 1992
Table of Contents
1.0  INTRODUCTION             .....................................  I
1.1   GENERAL   .....................................   I
1.2 THE PROPONENT .
1.3 PROPOSED PROJECR.                                                 I
1.4  LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS.                           2
1.5 STUDY OBTECTIVES.                                                 4
1.6 STUDYSCOPE.                                                       4
; 1.7 STUDY METHODS.                                                           5
2.0 BACKGROUND.                                                             7
.       2.1   HISTORY OF THE AREA  ......           ..................... . 7
2.2 HISTORY OF THE PROJEC.                                            8
2.3 NEED FORTHEPROJECT .10
2.4 PROJECT ALTERNATIVES .10
.   3.0 PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                . . . 12
3.1 SITE LOCATIONS... 12
3.2  OVERVIEW OFPROJECTCOMPONENTS .13
3.3   ENVIRONMENTALLY SIGNIFICANT PROJECT
COMPONENTS                           . .   14
3.3.1  Upgrading of Hydraulic Infrastructurr .e. ............... 15
3.3.2 Improvenents to Transport and Navigation Systems ... ..... 17
3.3.3 Upgrading of Base Camp Facilities in Riau .... ......... 17
3.3.4 Strengthening of Agricultural Support Services ..... ....... 17
3.3.5 Aquaculture Development ........................ 19
3.3.6 Supplementazy Settlement Scheme ................... 19
3.3.7 Environmental Component . ...................... 20
4.0   EXISTING PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT ........... .......... 21
4.1 CLIMATE                   .         .        ............... 21
4.1.1 Riau   ..21
4.1.2 Jambi   ..21
4.1.3 West Kalimantan    ..21
4.2 GEOLOGY ...------------------------22
4.3 SOILS    ............ 24
4.4 LAND SYSTEMS .......  26
*          4.:i~-   HY)e)  {YA,D\!TAQ1AJY........................,,, ., ,  2S
.5 HYDROLOGY AND WATF1, QUALITY           ..2
4.6  FLOODS AND INUNDATiON ....... . ...                             30
4.8   LAND SUITABILITY .............................. 31
i
1~~~~~ _                               



Second draft prinwd I November 1992
5.0   EXISTING BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT .................... 33
5.1   REGIONAL SETNG .............................. 33
;                  5.1.1  Sumatzra - Riau and Jambi     ........................ 33
.                  5.1.2  Borneo - West Kalimantan .     ......................  34
5.2  TERRESTRIAL AND AQUATIC ENVIRONMENT..                            35
5.2.1  Mangrove and Coastal Environments ................. 36
5.2.2 Man-Made Aquatic Environments .39
5.2.3 Freshwater Riverine Environments .42
5.2.4 Peatswamp Forests .44
5.2.5 Agricultural Land .47
5.3  FAUNA               ........................ 49
5.3.1    Riau  ...    ................................... 49
5.3.2 Jambi ..................................... 3
5.3.3 West Kalimantan ..........       ................... 54
5.4   SIGNIFICANT SPECIES ............................ 56
5.4. 1 Status of Animal and Plant Species ..... ............. 56
5.4.2 Pest Species . ................................ 58
6.0   EXISTING SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT .............                ... 60
6.1 REGIONAL LAND USE   .                      .60
6. 1.1 Siak Sub-project Area .60
6.1.2 Indragiri Sub-project Area .61
6.1.3 Jambi Project Area .62
6.1.4 West Kalimantan Project Area.                           63
6.2 POPULATION AND DEMOGRAPHY. .                                     63
6.3 LAND TENURE                            ..    64
6.4 LAND-USE ON THE PROJECT SCHEMES . .                              65
6.4.1 Riau .65
6.4.2 Jambi.                                                  65
6.4.3 WestKalimantan .                                        66
7.0 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ARISING FROM PROJECT
CONPNENTS                              ...68
7.1 INTRODUCTION   ..68
7.2  UPGRADING OF HYDRAULIC INFRASRUCTURE ..                         68
7.2.1 Dikes and Canals ............................. 68
7.2.2 Flap Gates, Sluice Gates and Stop Logs .7
7.2.3 Weirs .72
7.3   livi'iOYEMIENTFS T'iO 'T1-ZSlPQRT AND NAVIGATiON
SYSIEMS                 7.
7.3.1 Roads, Bridges, and Jetties .72
7.4   STRENGTHENING OF AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SYSMS... 72
7.4.1 Pig Control .          7
7.4.2 Rat Control .75
7.4.3 Weed, Insect and Plant Disease Control .75
7.5   AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT ..................... 80
..
I~~~~~~~~~~~



Second drnft; prined I November 192
7.6  SUPPLEMENTARY SETTLEMENT SCHEME .....    ......... 81
8.0  ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ARISING FROM EXISTING AND
CONTINUING OFF-SITE ACTIVITlES .. .                   82
8.1 INTRODUCTION ..                                   82
8.2 WILDLIFE EXPLOITATION   .         .82
8.2.1 Exploited Species.                         82
8.2.2 Mitgations .86
8.3  OFF-SITE HARVESTING OF FOREST PRODUCTS ..86
9.0  ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS OF INDIVIDUAL
SCHEMES                    ....88
9.1 INTRODUCTION                   .        .88
9.2  SIAK KIRI (Riau - Siak Sub-project) .88
9.2.1 Upgrading of Base Camp, Siak Kin .88
9.2.2 Weir and Dike Construction .89
9.3  SIAK KECIL (Riau - Siak Sub-project).           91
9.3.1 Upgrading of Navigation Canal .91
9.3.2 Buffer Zone for Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve .93
9.3.3 Supplementary Settlement .94
9.4  KUALA CINAKU I (RIAU - INDRAGIRI SUB-PROJEC) .. 94
9.4.1 Canals and Dikes ................         94
9.5  KUALA CINAKU II (RIAU - INDRAGIRI SUB-PROJECT) .. 96
9.6  TELUK KIAMBANG (RIAU - INDRAGIRI SUB-PROJECI) .. 96
9.7  TEMPULING (RIAU - INDRAGIRI SUB-PROJECT) ..97
9.8  RETEH (RIAU - INDRAGIRI SUB-PROJECT)  . .98
9.9  SIMPANG PANDAN and LAGAN HULU (JAMBI) . .98
9.10 DENDANG I and DENDANG 11 (JAMBI)   . .          101
9.11 DENDANG III (JAMB)   ..102
9.12 MUARA SABAK (JAMBI) .          .                104
9.13 LAMBUR (JAMBI) ..                               104
9.14 PAMUSIRAN (JAMB) ..                             106
9.15 RANTAU RASAU (JAMBI)    ..107
9.16 SIMPANG PUDING (JAMBI)          ..108
9.17 KAPUAS I[ & III (W KAIMANTAN - WESTERN SUB-
PROJECT). .                                     109
9.18 JAWI AND KAIJMAS (W KAUMANTAN - WESTERN SUB-
PROJECT)..11
9.19 flEaTUTU (.'. 1;A! I1MArYJN - "FSTEIf'tN SUB-I>.O3EC!)..112
er     5;*920 I;ASA1J JAYEA 1, 11 &: Ill (W YKAI It ANsTA N - EASTERNs SUR-
PROJECT) ......................... 113
9.21 SE! RADAK (W KALIMANTAN-EASTERNSUBPROJECT)    113
9.22 SEI N!PAH' (W 1KALIMANTAN, EASTEN SUB-PROJECR) S115
9.23 ARUS DERAS (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT) ... 116
9.24 AIR PUTIH (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT) .... 117
9.25 PINANG LUAR (W KALIMANTAN. EASTERN SUB-PROJECT) . 118
iii
>



Second dmft: printd I Nvenhefr 1992
. ,        9.26  PINA NYi DALAM (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB
PROJECT) ..................................  119
9.27 JANGKANG I (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT)    120
9.28  OLAK-OLAK KUBU (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-
PROJECT) .121
9.29  DESA KUBU (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT) . . . 122
9.30 SEI BULAN (W KALIMANTAN - EASITERN SUB-PROJECT) ... 123
10.0 IMPACT ASSESSMENT SUMMARY TABLE .126
11.0 R..E... .                                    ..  134
iV
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second draft; pinued I Noembr Im
S~ ....Table of Tables
Table                                                                Page
1 Rainfal and Temperature in Project Areas                       22
2  Inundation in Project Areas                                   30
3  Land Suitability in Project Areas                             31
4  Dominant Plant Species in West Kalimantan                     36
5  Water Quality in West Kalimantan                              40
6  Peatswamp Forest Plant Species in West Kalimantan             45
7  Summary of Fauna Observed on or near Project Schemes          48
8  Summary of Land Use in the Jambi Project Area                 65
9  Summary of Proposed Earthwork in the Project Areas            68
10  Summary of Pesticide Type Commercially Available in Project Areas  75
11  Hazardous Pesticides Available in Project Areas             77
I~~~~~~~~~~~
-     I~~~~~~
l~~~~~~~~~~~



Secon dnr.; prinard I Navormr 1992
Table or Appendices
Appendix I      Basic Information Jambi Project Area
*          Appendix 2      Basic Information West Kaliniantan Project Area
Appendix 3     Fauna on or near Project Areas
Appendix 4      Population Statistics West Kaliniantan Project Area
Appendix S     Potential Acid Sulphate Soil Risk Classes
Appendix 6     Commercially Available Pesticides oin Project Areas
Table or Appended Maps
Map IA         Major Project Activities Siak - Riau
Map 2A         Major Project Activities Indragiri - Riau
Map 3A         Major Proiect Activities Jambi
Map 4A         Major Project Activities West Kalimantan
Map 1B          Regional Land Use Siak - Riau
Map 2B         Regional Land Use Indragiri - Riau
Map 3B         Regional Land Use Jambi
Map 4B         Regional Land Use West Kalimantan
Map IC         Environmental Issues Siak - Riau
Map 2C         Environmental lssues Indrgiri - Riau
Map 3C         Environmental Issues Jambi
Map 4C         Environmental Issues West Kalimantan
vi
-  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



3
Second drmR- primed I November 1992
1.0 INTRODUCTION
4        1.1   GENERAL
The Government of Indonesia, Department of Public Works, has commissioned the Asian
Wetland Bureau - Indonesia, to prepare an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for a
Second Stage Integrated Swamps Development Project (ISDP) in the provinces of Riau,
Jambi (Sumatra) and West Kalimantan, Indonesia.
BCEOM Consultants finalized the Preparation Report describing the proposed project. As
a part of the Preparation Report, in accordance with Government of Indonesia Regulation
No. 29  of  1986, Environmental Impact Assessment (ANDAL) reports, with
Environmental Management Plans (RKL) and Environmental Monitoring Plans (RPL)
were prepared. Separate ANDALIRKIJRPL reports were presented for each of the three
provincial project areas.
The World Bank would partly fund the project. The World Bank has a policy on
environmental protection contained in it's Operational Directive No. 4.01: Environmental
Assessment. 7he World Bank has requested that the three exisling ANDAVL reports be
revised and incorporated into a single document. Additional information on existing
environmental conditions and impacts on off-site areas and coastal resources should be
included.
The purpose of this document is to revise the three existing ANDAL reports and present
an environmental impact starrenent consistent with World Bank OD 4 01. This revision
combines and expands on information contained in BCEOM's Preparation Report, and the
accompanying Technical Reports, including the three ANDALs. A substantial amount of
new information is added. Evaluation concentrates on those aspects and activities of the
proposed ISDP Project where significant environmental impacts are most likely.
1.2   TIE PROPONENT
The proponent for the project is:
Directorate of Swamps,
Directorate General of Water Resources Development,
Ministry of Public Works.
JI. Patfimura No. 20
Keibayoran Banr,
3 .a. aaa Slatan, Ilndoncsia.
1.3   PROPOSED PROJECT
The Govemment of Indonesia, Directorate oa Swamps essentially proposes to upgrade the
infrastructure of a number of existing transmigration and swamp development schemes in
the provinces of Riau, Jambi and West Kalimantan. This upgrade is a part of Stage II of
I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Ir   B                                                         Second dmnt pnted I Novmber 1992
the Government of Indonesia's approach to development. The major components of the
project involve construction and rehabilitation of roads, navigation canals, flood
mitigation and water management structures. A number of additional agricultural and
social components are also proposed but most of thcse are considered to have little
environmental impact (see section 3.2).
1.4   LEGAL AND ADMIISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
The first significant legislation to bc passed in Indonesia concerning the environment was
Act No 4 (1982) 'Concerning Basic Provisions for the Management of the Living
Environment'. This act induded provision for compensation and penalties for
environmental degradation (Article 20), a requirement that every activity likely to have an
impact must have an Environmental Impact Assessment (Article 16) and provision for the
involvement of non-government organizations (Article 19). Legislation specific to EIA has
development further through the following legal instruments:
o     Government Regulation No 29 (1986) - Analysis of Environmental Impacts
states that all planned projects must go through the AMDAL (Analysis
Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan) process.
AMDAL is an integrated review process. It coordinates the planning and
review of proposed development activities, particularly their ecological,
socio-economic and cultural components. If important impacts appear
likely, then a preliminary environmental report (Penyajian Informasi
Lingkungan - PIL) and an environmental impact assessment (Analisis
Dampak Linggzungan - ANDAL) may be required.
The regulation also includes a paralll process, Smidi Evaluasi Mengenai
Danpak Lingkungan, or SEMDAL, which applies to projects which were
already under way during 1987, but had not yet been assessed for
environmental impact. These projects may  require  a  preliminary
environmental evaluation report (Penyajian Evaluasi Lingkungan - PEL)
and an environmental evaluation study (Snudi Evaluai Lingkungan - SEL)
if important impacts are expected.
O     Often, the PIL and PEL reports are not required if ministerial decisions
decree that significant impacts are expected. In this case the process moves
directly to the preparation of the terms of reference (Kerangkna Acuann -
KA) for ti'    D 1)1A.   S;!i SEt. renonts. For bLo,.h tI;Ari. al; S. m  L
process,  cnvirajnmen:l  mwiagernent  plans  (ikc,wana  Pengelolaan
Lingkcl r.gan - RKL) and cnvironmental monitoring plans (Rencana
Pemanrauan Lingkungan - RPL) must be produced.
General guidance for AMDAL procedures and report preparation have been established
by the State Ministry for Population and Environment and include:
2
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Second dnAl; pnnted I Nvwmber 1992
o     Ministerial Decree No 49 (1987) - Guidelines for the Determination of
Significant Impacts.
Significant impacts are very basic changes which are caused by any
activity. Paragraph (2), Article 3 of PP No 29 (1986) states that impact
significance is determined by:
-     the number of people affected by the impacts;
-     the ameal extent of the impact;
-     the duration of the impact;
-     the intensity of the impact;
-     the number of other environment components affected by the
impact;
-     the cumulative nature of the impact;
-     the reversibility or irreversibility of the impact.
o     Ministerial Decree No 50 (1987) - Guidelines for the Analysis of
Environmental Impacts of Proposed Projects. It includes the PIL, KA ior
the ANDAL, ANDAL, RKL and RPL.
O     Circulation Letter No 3 (1987) - Procedure for the Mitigation of Pollution
and Damage to the Environment. The implementation of any activity must
be followed by an effort to prevent and mitigate pollution and/or the
destruction of the environment.
Other general environmental legislation includes:
o     Act No 5 (1990) Concerning Conservation of Living Resources and Their
Ecosystems;
o     Government Regulation No 28 (1985) Concerning Forest Protection;
o     Government Regulation No 20  (1990) Concerning  Water Pollution
Protection;
o     Presidential Decree No 32 (1990) Concerning Protected Areas
Specific Guidance for AMDAL procedures and report preparation have been established
by thCl Ministcr Of Public -Voriksz and inclu:dc.
o     Minislerial Decree No 531 (1989) Guidelines for Screening of AMDAL for
Public Works Projects;
o     Ministerial Decree No 557 (1989) AMDAL Implementation Guidelines for
Public Works Projects;
3
_~~ w--                           -



SicW dmft" printd I Now.mbw 19
o     Ministerial Decree No 126 (1990) Dctermination of Project requiring an
AMDAL;
o     Ministerial Decree No 46 (1990) Technical Guidelines for AMDAL in the
Ministry of Public Works; and
o     Ministerial Decree No 779 (1990) Technical Guidelines for AMDAL for
Swamp Projects.
In the case of the presently proposed project, the environmental requirements for the
Government of Indonesia are currently at an advanced stage, with ANDAL, RKL and
RPL reports already presented.
The World Bank has been involved in assisting Government of Indonesia with swamps
development since the late 1970's. Guidelines for World Bank sponsored projects are
outlined in the World Bank Technical Paper No. 139 (World Bank 1991). Tis paper
contains a number of Opertional Directives, policies and procedures for environmental
assessmenL Operational Directive 4.01 dcals specifically with environmental assessment
of development projects and thus, the current document conforms to the guidelines
contained therein.
1.5   STUDY OBJECTIVES
The principal objectives of this Environmental Impact Assessment are:
o     Provide a  description of the existing  natural and  socio-economic
ezr.ironment within the area of influeice of the project;
o     identify the project components which might have a significant impact on
the existing natural and socio-economic environment;
o     identify the potential impacts of these pro. .ct components on a local and
regional scale;
o     identify existing and ongoing negative environmental impacts of the
schemes and suggest ways they may be mitigated through project design or
environmental management; and
ao    anlalny7( lhe nc; efnvirnniL.anrt'! iinpac.s oi .h. projcwL 2'nd sug-est initi-ating
irmcasures or alternatives whichi might alleviate negative impacts.
1.6   STUDY SCOPE
The study encompasses the three project areas in the provinces of Riau, Jambi and West
Kalimantan. Although the project administrative boundaries can be clearly defined in most
cases, the boundaries of potential environmental impacts may be broad and irregular. For
4



S..ucd draft; prlamed I Nowmbr 1992
this reason, the study area includes outside areas of potential impacts, especially where
such areas included conservation reserves, primary forest, coastal habitats, neighbouring
villages, and local fisheries.
Although the project contains a complex series of components, many of these components
are likely to have little or no environmental impacts. Therefore, the study only examines
in detail those project aspects and activities that might have a significant impact on the
:       environment.
In addition to the new project components, existing and continuing environmental issues
at the sites are evaluated in the light of the proposed project. Possible methods of
alleviating existing problems are discussed. These issues include pest control, off-site
timber harvesting, threats to endangered species and creation of buffer zones.
The revision of the existing three ANDAL reports was implemented in four months,
including three-week field visits to each of the provioncial project areas by a separate
team of specialist. Field work filled in most of the important gaps in the available data,
and verified other data, but this report is still largely based on existing data, particularly
civil-technical information, from the Preparation and Technical Reports.
1.7  STUDY METHODS
Most of the technical data on which this study is based is contained in twenty technical
reports prepared by BCEOM and Associates and readers requiring more details of the
project should consult these documents. To supplement these data and gain additional
environmental information, Asian Wetland Bureau staff undertook field trips to each site
during August/September 1992.
The field teams visited all project schemes, and inspected virtually each pToposed project
activity. Information on the environment at these sites was assessed through observations
on vegetation and wildlife, soils, aquatic environment and the range of human activities
occurring. The existing regional environment was assessed by noting the type and am.iount
of off-site activities in the area, and the type, quality and extent of natural habitats
occurring.
Because of insufficient time in the field, much additional information was gathered from
local residents on and off the schemes. At most schemcs, discussions -were held with
village heads or village secretaries about the activities on the schemes, problems and how
the~ arc (ral! with, and tne occurrciice cof native wildlife in the ar-ca. Additional
info:rmation was g.ained while travelling throllToh thc schcmns and talkin  to farmcrs,
particularly those near areas of influence from the project. Transmigrants, local non-
transmigrants, people in adjacent villages, forest concession workers and others were
consulted in order to gain an overview of the project setting.
Because of the limited opportunity to collect primary data, much of the information
presented was obtained through reports which may have varying levels of reliability. In
5



Second dnR; priaed I November 992
the case of wildlife observations, only species which the survey team  felt could be
definitely identified by the informant are included. To aid in identifications, books
containing good colour photographs or drawings of animal species were taken into the
field. The books were shown to local people, who were then asked to find the animals
they had seen in the pictures. Often this involved a process of elimination, and usually
included group discussions. Only when there was general consensus about a species
identification and the survey team was convinced of the reliability of the observers, was
the species noted as being present.
This method was reliable, as many observers spontaneously provided additional
information on the species' habits, which were accurate. Many persons knew the local
name of the species. This was noted in each case and verified whenever a specimen was
secured. This method was particularly useful for fish identification, since most species
were eventually located at markets or with fishers in the field.
In general, it was found that original residents had a far better knowledge of the fauna
than the transmigrants.
Throughout this report, topics and issues common to all the project areas have been
integrated wherever possible. However, since the project spans four distinct geographical
areas, in many cases it has been necessary to deal with these on an individual basis.
6
* ..;.~~~~~~
I                 
-   :..



Second draft; pnmcd I Novembcr 1992
2.0 BACKGROUND
J       2.1   HISTORY OF THE AREA
The wetland area of Jambi and Riau has always been sparsely populated. Only during the
last few decades mainly non-Sumatran people: Banjarese, Buginese and Javanese, arrived.
Until the immigration of these farmers and fishers, settlements were restricted to some
Orang Laut villages along the estuaries, Malay settlements on river levees, and Kubu
tribes in the swamnpland.
Orang Laut restricted themselves to coastal fisheries and some collection of Nypah and
Nibung palms for building houses. Kubu collected forest products for daily needs. Only
Malays cultivated rice in so-called huma, temporaily fields in forest areas along or close
to the larger rivers: Batanghari, Berbak, Kumpeh (Furukawa, 1986), Siak Besar, Siak
Kecil and Indragiri.
Reclamation of Jambi's vast swampland began with the arrival of the Banjarese as of the
first half of this century. The first centre of Banjarese migrants was Kuala Tungkal,
where they started with the digging of small canals (pari:) along river courses for the
cultivation of tidal, rain-fed rice. During low tide the parits automatically drain acid peat
water from the inland swamp forests. During high tide, incoming river water irrigates the
rice fields (see, e.g., Tideman, 1937; Furukawa, 1986). Banjarese migrated from
comparable wetland areas in Kalimantan, and therefore had expericnce with wetland
reclamation techniques.
Buginese settlers followed the Banjarese in the nineteen fifties and later. Although
essentially fishers, they had some experience with wetlands in their homeland Sulawesi,
(Furukawa, 1986). They copied the reclamation of swamp forests from the Banjarese, but
reclaimed ares on a larger scale. Buginese also started in the Kuala Tungkal area, but
moved southward in the sixties and seventies, due to increasing scarcity of land around
Kuala Tungkal (Van Son, 1991). In the late sixties and seventies they reached and
occupied the coastal area of Berbak, where the ISDP schemes are located. Now this area
remains essentially Buginese (Silvius, 1984; AWB SuTvey Team, 1991).
Land-use practices were not wholly sustainable. In the coastal areas, salination of land
because tidal influences, pest problems (pigs, rats, bears, etc.), and invasion of grasses
and sedges during cultivation have been a problem from the begining -f reclamation.
Therefore, many farmers switched to less susceptible coconut cultivation after about four
yctrs of rie-cropping. l'his trend has turned unost oQ th. oripiinal tidl (::!n-trarr iranI)
ricc-grouwinO a.ets into COCOu"!. plk.ntpiouns. Much mDre than tlheir Xaliman;an nei hibours
Bugiiiese see swamp cultivation as a speculative activity. Often, the required money for
opening new land comes from sea fisheries and its export-related activities (AWB Survey
Team, 1991). For Buginese, the speculative aspect of copra production has played a
major role in adjustment of land use. Besides this, they seem less skilled in coping with
the emerging environmental problems than Banjarese. Buginese have frequently
7~~~~~~~~~~~
1 _



" S
Second dmft. pniled I Nowmber 1992
:       abandoned their fields and villages, while Banjarese persist over longer periods at one
location.
There is a widespread understanding that in Riau, and possibly also in Jambi, Javanese
gave new impetus to cultivation of abandoned fields. Allegedly this would be because of
their fixation on rice cropping above all other forms of land use (see Tanaka, 1986), and
their ability to turn grassy plains into sawah again. Field observations of AWB-teams do
not support this. In Jambi's wedands, especially Javanese often could not cope with the
problems of wetland cultivation. Their inability to cope is related to the whole complex of
problems associated with transmigration into wetland areas.
Next to agriculture, forest utilization took place since the area was settled. All cultural
groups that lived in the area used forest. Most popular were Jelurung (wild rubber) for
marketing, Nypah and Arbung (swamp palms) for housing purposes, firewood and
(formerly) Sago palm (practised by the original Malay; see Tideman, 1937).
From the beginning of this century, sea fishing took place in the coastal area of Muara
Sabak, practised by Malay and Chinese that newly came into the area. Riverine fish were
also an export product in the first half of the century. Due to the immigration of non-
Sumatran communities, (and possibly also to destruction of the freshwater fish stocks),
marine and coastal fisheries dominate now.
The Siak area was under the control of the Sultanate of Siak Sriindrapura and the villages
near the Siak schemes have existed since the tum of the century. The settlers were mainly
Malay who planted rubber and fruit trees and cultivated rice. By the Second World War
there was also a significant Javanese and Chinese population.
Most villages in the Indragiri area were in existence at the turn of the century. The
market at Teluk Kiambang, the town opposite the scheme which bears its name, was built
by the Dutch in 1928. A Swiss owned rubber plantation existed in Pekantua until the
Second World War. Many of the labourers were Javanese and when the plantation was
destroyed, they stayed in the area. Around 1940, the area near the Retah scheme was
opened by Buginese, with Banjarese and Javanese soon following.
2.2 HISTORY OF THE PROJECT
During the last twenty years, the Govemment of Indonesia has pursued. development
programs in Riau, Jambi and West Kalimantan. Transmigration has been a part of these
prograrns in both thc sv;amp and thc dry land arcas. Thoe Government's transminrittion
prooram in tlies avcas c:o;nwItW-Cdl in tiie late 1960s and carly 1970s. Thc program,
which rcsettled people from thc most densely populated parts of Indonesia in the areas,
had two principal aims. Firstly, the program aimed to alleviate population problems by
moving people to sparsely populated areas. This program would also help stimulate
development in the more isolated provinces.
Indoncsia's development strategy proceeds in four stages:



*1
S.ecod dmft; prinid I November 1992
5e;aeeLI: An expansion of the area suitable for subsistence agriculture using low cost,
simple technology. The Govemment's role consists of technical services, such as land
clearing, construction of uncontrolled drainage systems, houses, bridges, and the
provision of supporting services for agricultural extension, cducation and health carc.
This stage ends when all production factors are optimally utilized.
Sta e IT: When production factors established in Stage I are fully utilized, the
Government intervenes with capital inputs to improvc the hydraulic infrastructure and
water management system. At the same time, agricultural extension is strengthened.
Problems encountered in the first stage of development can be addressed during this
phase.
Other Stags After another period of consolidating agricultural production a third stage
consists of irrigating individual projects by low-lift pumping from unchecked rivers. A
fourth stage applies to basin-wide areas and involves the creation of fresh-water reservoirs
either upstream from the tidal strctch or in closed off estuaries. At this sta,ge optimum use
will be made of land and water resources, crop diversification and the cultivation of
commercial crops will reach its highest level.
The Integrated Swamps Development Project (ISDP) is a Stage II development plan,
although many of the interventions, particularly the pilot components are considered more
appropriate to Stage III development.
The integrated approach takes into consideration a range of project components and
constraints including soils, infrastructure, agriculture, institutions and environment.
In Siak, the Siakl Kiri scheme was opened in 1978, with about 2,000 households, mostly
from Java and some local Malays who were already living there. In 1987, the scheme
was handed over to local government, with 1,586 households. The Siak Kecil scheme was
settled between 1979 and 1983 with 2,489 households. Severe flooding and problems with
deep peat soil discouraged many settlers, who moved to other schemes. At hand over in
1987, only 847 households remained.
In Indragiri, the oldest scheme, Teluk Kiambang, was settled from 1971 to 1975. The
other schemes were settled in 1979180.
Construction work on the five Batanghari-Berbak deltaic islamd schemes took place from
1969 to 1979, but largely in the early seventies, and transmiigrants settled betw^en 1969
and 19S1, but mositly in the mid szvcinics. Four of thz five schIr-c are CtigUOUS, and
all are comp1etcly surrounded by agricultural land opened by Malay, Banjarcse and
Bucinese who settled the coastal strip since the fifties. The remaining five Jambi schemes
were opened between 1979 and 1986 and settled between 1979 and present. These
schemes are younger, not contiguous (except Dendang I and 11) and border on forest.
Originally, each transmigrant family received 2'A hectares of land at settlement. The
house lot of 100 x 25 meters, usually situated along a secondary canal, and the 100 x 100
9



Secend dlft; prniAd I Nowmber I92
m amble land (Lahan Usaha *), directly behind the house lot, were cleared by the
Transmigration Department before settlement. The remaining 100  x 100 m of land
(Lahan Usaha 2) behind the LU 1, retained its original vegetation cover, usually forest.
Transmigrants were to clear and till their LU 2 land within five years after settlement.
Besides individually owned land, the design of the transmigration schemes provided for
Reserve Land (Lahan Codangan) and Green Belts (Jalur HUau) for future development.
Because secondary canals are a standard 500 meters apart, LU 2 land from one secondary
canal borders directly on LU 2 land from the next secondary canal. Because of this
design, long, finger-like blocks of forest, contiguous with surrounding forest, penetrated
the schemes between the secondary canals, for at least five years after settlcment. In older
schemes this LU 2 forest has been largely or completely cleared, but not so in younger
schemes. These blocks of forests inside the schemes are at the base of the pig problem.
Since the early eighties, this standard design was abandoned for one where the LU2 land
of all transmigrant families is aggregated in one or more 'corners' of the schcme.
2.3 NEED FOR THE PROJECT
The project is needed in order to addrcss the following problems, which are presently
hindering agricultural productivity:
o     flooding of fields during the wet scason;
o     deadlocks in canals, salination and acidification of soil, ground water and
canal water because of insufficient water circulation and scherne flushing;
o     poor water supply for irrigation of crops during the dry season;
o     poor drinking watcr supply;
|   o  poor road or waterway access to schemes;
o     pests, particularly pigs, Ts and birds;
o     lack of coordination in extension and institutional framework;
o     insufficient agriculturall kno.wledge amon-st farmers; and,
',o                 lack1 of manpower and capital inpul in agricultural systems.
2A    PROJECT ALTERNATIVES
:       Project alteratives can be asscssed at two levels.
10
,-:



- 8 
Second draf; prinmed I Nowuner 1992
The first altemative is not proceeding with the project. Without the project, the situation
in the schemes is likely to deteriorte due to the diverse physical problems of flooding,
excessive drainage, lack of water circulation, acidification, salination and lack of
maintenance of canals and water control infrastructures. In addition, there are problems
with pests and weeds, and inadequate road communications. These would all contributc to
an on-going deterioration in crop production. Many transmigrants have left the schemes
because of the above problems. Some schemes have declined by over 50% Many of the
remaining transmigrants obtain some or even most of their income from off-scheme
activities. In the absence of any environmental controls there is likely to be continued
degradation of the adjacent forests and other readily available natural rcsources.
On a second level, there aTe a number of project activities for which alternatives in design
or implementation may prove more efficient or environmentally sound than those
currently proposed. Project activity altematives are dealt with in detail in Section 9.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. S --
~   &- --
. .



Second draft; printed I November 1992
< . -3.0   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
.,.  lie complete description of the project, as formulated in the Preparation Report, consists
of a one-volume Main Report with an Addendum to the Main Report and an Executive
Summary. The Main Report is based on, and extensively refers to twenty Technical
Reports, which in tum are based on an uncountable number of field- and other reports.
Hence, the following description of the project is necessarily partial, mainly limited to
environmentally relevant elements.
3.1 SITE LOCATIONS
-    The proposed Integrated Swamps Development Project (ISDP) would be located in three
provinces: Riau and Jambi on the island of Sumatra, and West Kalimantan on the island
of Borneo.
The proposed Riau project area is divided into two geographically distinct sub-project
areas, Siak and Indragiri.
The Siak sub-project area comprises two schemes, Siak Kecil and Siak Kiri, located in
Kabupaten Bengkalis. The schemes are approximately 90 km northeast of the provincial
capital, Pekanbaru and are located along the Siak and Siak Kecil rivers. The nearest large
town is Siak Sriindrapura, about 15 km south of the most southerly schemes. Road access
to the area is available from Pekanbaru via the 'Caltex Road, which has a gravel surface
that is regularly sprayed with oil. The Siak Besar River is a major navigation route
between Pekanbaru, Bengkalis and Batam Island. The river is navigable by large vessels
to 1,000 tonnes. Speedboats and water taxies offer regular services to the sites from Siak
Sriindrapura and Bengkalis. The total gross area of the schemes is about 22,000 ha, of
which about 6,850 ha is curnrntly cropped.
The Indragiri sub-project area comprises five schemes located on both banks of the
Indragiri River between Rengat and Tembilahan, about 210 km southeast of Pekanbaru.
Schemes in this sub-project area include Kuala Cinaku I (in Kabupaten Indragiri Hulu)
and Kuala Cinaku II, Teluk Kiarnbang, Tempuling and Retah (in Kabupaten Indragiri
Hilir). The schemes iocated on the south side of the Indragiri River are serviced by a new
provincial road, which is currently asphalted as far as the Teluk Kiambang scheme.
Another asphalt road on the northem side of the river links the town of Telulc MiFimbang
w%ith Tembilahan. Altemative access to all schemes is nvailable by boat along thc Indragiri
River. TIwl tit:d gross arca of thc schemcs is ao ;u, CA,i03 ha, of wVIich -ai.ut 10,350 ha
is cLrrently cropped-
The proposed Jambi project area comprises ten swamp schemes located in Kapubaten
Tanjung Jabung about 80 km northeast of Jambi, the provincial capital. These swamp
schemes can be conveniently divided into the Batanghari-Berbak deltaic island schemes
(Muara Sabak, Lamnbur, Pamusiran, Rantau Rasau, and Simpang Puding) and the
Batanghari and Lagan river schemes (Dendang I, II and III, Simpang Pandan and Lagan
12



<-.£
Second drmflk pntued I November 2993
Hulu). The total gross area' of the schemes is 43,370 hectares of which 27,546 ha are
currently cropped.
The West Kalimantan project area comprises schemes to the west of Pontianak, the
provincial capital and twelve schemes to the southeast of the city. Both sub-project areas
are located in Pontianak Kabupaten. In the western sub-project area the schemes are
Kapuas Kecil II and III, Kalimas, Jawi, Sci Betutu and Punggur Kecil. The total gross
area is about 19,000 ha of which 13,930 ha is currently cropped. The eastem sub-project
area consists of the schemes of Rasau Jaya, Pinang Luar, Pinang Dalam, Sci Radak, Sci
Bulan, Jangkang I, Olak-Olak Kubu, Desa Kubu, Air Putih, Arus Deras and Sei Nipah.
They are located in the delta formed by the Kapuas, Punggur Besar, Ambawang, Kubu
and Terentang Rivers. The closest scheme, Rasau Jaya is some 43 km from Pontianak.
The total gross area of the schemes is 27,125 ha of which 17,325 is currently cropped.
3.2 OVERVIEW OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project would consist of eighteen2 main components which will be implemented over
a five year period. The following project components are identified (components marked
with a * [filleddot] are deemed environmentally significant and discussed in some detail
further in this Chapter):
*     Upgrading  and rehabiliation  of existing hydraulic  infrastructure for
irrigation and flood mitigation (canals, dikes, river channelization and
various flood control devices); construction of new hydraulic infrastructure;
and construction or pilot irrigation systems.
O     Upgrading of hydrometeorological network.
*     Improvements to transport and navigation systems (road and navigation
canal improvements).
*     Upgrading of base camp facilities i Riau.
o     Improvement of potable water supply thmugh provision of rainwater tanks,
upgrading water treatment stations (Jambi) and piped water network (West
Kalimantan).
o     Introduction of efficient Operation and MainteRnace.
Re&reca t the toarm of de lmbi J chewec range Ski 39.19S h (TRS. Tabh3.1. p-63) to 52.6S7 ha CtR14.
Tab2.1. p.12).
2 Mme papaeon Repon meenio. 3.1 run only seveaem prjcc  neoa. Me we incldc ineg uprding or the Rim
ImI_mp. enwued In the projea dexcuiptio.
13
;. 



'F
Second dr.fl. printe  I inn wuber 1992
*     Strengthening of agricultural support services, formation of a Water User's
Association (WUA), improvement of seed supplies, and alleviation of
constraints caused by agricultural pests.
o     Support to Estate Crop Production in coconut production and improvements
to copra production and marketing.
*     Aquaculture development.
o     Support of agriculture research by the Agency for Agricultural Research
and Development (AARD).
O     Support of agro-industry activities to identify household and small-stale
activities suited to the project area and to provide assistance to assure its
viability.
O     A pilot credit component to investigate alternative mechanisms for the
dispersal and collection of short term production loans.
*     Support for assisted supplemnentary settlement in selected schemes. This
depends on the results of detailed studies of the potential for such
resettlement.
o     Non-formal education component to improve literacy, with emphasis on
women.
o     A rural health program throughout the schemes, with emphasis on the
needs of women and children.
O     A Women in Development programme.
o     Institutional strengthening to improve the capability of provincial and
district agencies.
*     An environmental component to supervise project implementation and
monitor its impacts.
3.3 ENVIRONMENTALLY SIGNIFICANT PROJECT COMPONENTS
Many o' the pro> ctc co:lpOCnenlts are likely to have little or no impact on th_ civirolinent.
They are not considered in detail in this assessment. All components are designed to
providc significant social benefits and thus could be regarded as having a positive impact
on the socio-economic environment of the people involvedc
The following project components have more or less potential for environmental impact
and are therefore dealt with in detail. Four appended Maps (lA-4A) detail the significant
14
^ _; _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second dna; pnnted I November 1992
project actvities for the four areas. Appendices I and 2 present a summary of the type
and volume of project activities in the Jambi and West Kalimantan project areas. Table 9
in Chpater Seven shows a summary of proposed earthwork volumes.
3.3.1  Upgrading or Hydmulic Infrastructure
This aspect of the project is essendally designed to overcome the four most important
environmental problems faced by the transmigrants, that of inundation during the wet
season, insufficient water for cropping during the dry season, deadlocks in canals or
insufficient circulation, and saline intrusion. The project proposes to either renovate
existing hydraulic structure where appropriate, or install new hydraulic structures.
The following is a brief description of the design and purpose of the major hydraulic
components of the schemes:
Dikes are raised, long mounds of earth, typically 1-2 meters high and of variable width.
Almost all dikes in the proposed project will be constructed from whatever soil material
can be excavated at the site of construction. No earth is transported. Nor is earth
excavated from any proposed canals, used to build dikes. There'ore, locally available soil
material determines the quality of dikes. This method always leaves the equivalent of
canal or drain at the foot of each dike. In some Indragiri schemes dikes can be built from
the readily available supply of river sand.
The principal function of a dike is flood mitigation during the wet season. Dikes are
located so as to protect fields from inundation from an adjacent river, the sea, or an
adjacent peat swamp forest. Because of the raised design, dikes are often used for
vehicular transport, usually bicycle or motorbike. Some of the proposed roads are on
dikes. In some schemes, dikes and their associated canals were reported to have reduced
pig numbers entering the scheme.
Canals
Canals are classified according to function, branching order and size. Based on function,
navigation, supoly and drainage canals are distinguished. Often the same annl perfonns
more than one function, e.g., navigation-supply or supply-drainage, or schemes lack one
or two functional types. By branching ordcr, onc rnm-y disiingiuish piinary, stcondary and
tcrtiary canals. Primary cana1i;, whctiier supiplyinig anid/or draining water, usLialiy conncct
tD a rivcr but often to a navigation canal. Secondary canals usually run perpendicular to
the primary canals from which they stem. Primary and secondary canals are often blind
(dead-ended) but may connect two rivers, respectively two primary canals. Finally,
tertiary canals, again perpendicular on the parent canal, deliver water to the fields or
drain them.
I5



Secuad dn4R pdatd I Nowember 1992
c       Six size classes seem  to be distinguished, largely paralleling branching order. Yet,
branches of the same order may vary greatly. Navigation and primary canals are always
largest: 20-40 meters wide and 3-5 meters deep. Secondary canals are usually
intermnediate (but often differ little from primary or tertiary canals): 2-20 meters wide and
1-3 meters deep. Tertiary canals are usually smallest: when present or discernible 1-2
meters wide and 0.5-1 m deep.
Local usage of terms may not always conform to this terminology. In West Kalimantan,
branch order names are based solely on size, and 'secondary' canals may lack: there
tertiary canals connect to primary canals.
Dikes, navigation, primary and secondary canals always expose pyrite or peat when
present, and then require mitigation measures.
Canals serve a dual purpose of wet season drainage of floodwaters, and dry season
irrigation of fields. Apart from typical rain-fed irrigation, tidal irrigation is practised on
.nany schemes. In this situation, the canals are filled by water from the river on the
incoming tide (usually upstream of salt influence) and then are blocked off at the mouth
so that the fresh water is available for irrigation.
Flap Gates
Flap gates are automatic one-way flow water control structures which are designed
exclusively for flood protection at high tide and drainage at low tide. They are normally
designed not to let the tide in, but can be modified to do so with the addition of a winch.
Flap gates are typically placed at the entrance to secondary and primary canals.
Sluice Gates
Sluice gates are manually operated flood protection structures. They are not suitable for
remote areas since they require the presence of an operator. The use of sluice gates is
limited to storage of tidal or rain water during the dry season, or for semi-permanent
closure of canals in the wet season. Sluice gates are usually located on primary or
secondary canals. Sluice and flap gales are combined in construction in some situations.
StLopUgs
Stop-logs are smaller, cheap manual structures consisting of a sliding gate which is
remov.b14c witholi thc hlup of a winich. Because of ther mantial operation, thcse ga:ts are
implemented only on sm-ell t_rtiary canals.
Pemranent Earth Closures
Self explanatory.
Off-take Structures
16



4.
Off-take structures are smzallcr constructions across tertiary canals for gravitational
distribution of irrigation water on a rotation base. They are only proposyd in the two
pumped irrigation pilot projects in Pamusiran (Jambi) and Siak Kiri (Riau).
3.3.2 Improvements to Transport and Navigation Systens
Boads. Bridges and Jetties
Road upgrades range from simple earthen roads along or on existing dikes, to asphalted
roads of 6 meters width. The present road network in many areas is restricted to transport
by motorcycle, bicycle or on foot.
Most bridges on the sites are currently of wooden design and many are in a dangerous
condition. Concrete bridges are favoured for upgrades on the various schemes. The
various bridge designs are detailed in TR 12, p.33.
Jetties would be newly constructed or upgrded according to their present condition and
location. TR 12, p.31 provides details on jetty designs in the schemes.
Navigation Canals
Some (primary  and secondary) canals are used for navigation by boat, including
sampans, speedboats and pompongs. Some canals are also built specifically for this
purpose, or for the dual purposes of navigation and flood mitigation.
3.3.3 Upgrading of Base Camp Facilities in Riau
Base camp facilities at Siak Kiri would require upgrading in order to accommodate the
workforce required for the project. The base camp, located at Buantan is currently in a
state of disrepair.
Upgrading would consist of renovating or reconstructing the already existing buildings
and facilities.
33.4 Strengthening of Agricultural Support Services
In this section, the nain issues of environmental concern are in the implementation of
pest control measures:
Perimeter l'ia Fence
Wild pigs are a serious threat to the viability of the schemes because of the damage they
can cause to crops. At present individual farmers protect thjeoir crops with bamboo
fences around individsual fields. This increases the fence-length to protected-land ratio
enormously. It is considered more efficient to look for a collective solution. The project
therefore proposes that a fence be bLilt around the perimeter of all schemes in. order to
17
,,_i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second drmft pnimed I November 1992
prevent access to the fields by pigs. This involves 571.5 kilometres of fence, requiring
and estimated 142,875 m3 of rock for the foundation, for all thirty-four schemes.
The pig fence would be of chain link construction in a rock and masonry foundation, or
with underground sheet piles. The fencing would be integrated with the road and drainage
systems, having animal grids where it crosses roads.
Rat Contro
Rats are a major problem at many schemes. A research component would develop, and
test in a field situation, a chemo-sterilant, and palatable bait and study rat population
dynamics on ISDP schemes, all in the project's first year. Three compounds would be
investigated on their suitability as chemo-sterilant: an orally active androgen3 (methyl-
testosterone), a highly potent gestagen' and a-fluorohydrin. The latter chemical has not
yet been tested in Indonesia.
Greater coordination of eradication efforts and systematic baiting, would control rats in
the second (selected schemes) and third (all schemes) year of the project. Concurrently an
extension, demonstration and training programme would organize farmers. Application of
rodenticide on 1.2-2 hectares (rice) farms would increase from zero in the first year, to
2.5 kilograms in the second and third years, and then gradually decrease to 2.0, 1.5, 1.0
and 0.5 kg in years four to seven.
Weed Control
Weeds are a serious problem in many schemes, primarily as a result of farming methods
(no puddling) and labour shortage. Aquatic weeds in canals and rivers are also a serious
problem in some schemes, because they reduce water flow and navigation. The project
proposes zero tillage methods, viz. pre-planting spmying with a mixture of 1 'h litre
glyphosate (Roundup) with one litre of 2:4-D (U-46) or MCPA5, instead of weeding by
hand. When sprayed, weeds should be young, unwilted and growing vigorously, e.g., in
Scptember-October. Optionally, heavy weed growth or weeds after flowering may be
controlled by slashing (and burning) 3-4 weeks before spraying, to induce foliage growth
at spraying time (TR5, p.33-34). A point of particular attention in the land development
component would be improvement in the supply of agro-chemicals, including herbicides
(TR5, p.93). Proposed Technical Demonstration Units would, among others, demonstrate
weed control in pre-planting CTM5, p.96) and post-harvesting stage and in perimeter
manaocinetr. Wccd research involves testing speciric herbicide p-Ack-ages k-now.n to be cost
t:fcCLiv-;, i,u. litLIe pr-actiscd in l;I;;nesia. Researcih should investigale concentrations and
3 7ec andrgen. incoepoeaed in pletNi wax. caa  mdiae and Iaa1ieg inretiliy in rinaa. and aggrcssion in alks.
Ibe -a,specirmd- gatagn lmibas ovulaim ad paun;on.    to the deah ornewbonu.
Nohe tat other habecides tba he qwaudadwas ad bis. aaa th papmed bvle d batnc.
18
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
..



Second dnft. prilaud I Noember 1992
ratios of different combinations of glyphosate, 2:4-D and MCPA (CRM, p.107-108). The
project does not propose specific measures to control aquatic weeds.
Insect Pests and Plant Diseases
Although insect pests and plant diseases occur in all ISDP schemes, they are not as
important a problem as they are in the intensive rice producing areas of Indonesia (TR5,
p.34). The preparation reports do not detail pest species, diseases, or damage leveis'.
There are no explicit references to specifically insect control or pesticides to be used,
except in costing tables and farm model tables.
3.3.5 Aquaculture Development
Aquaculture is not widely practised in any of the ISDP schemes. Poor soil and water
quality, the farmers' insufficient knowledge, experience and skill, inadequate capital and
management, and shortage of labour and fish fry are the causes. Improved drainage
infrastructure, though primarily designed for flood protection, would indirectly address
poor water quality. Direct interventions would consist of (I) a technical support
programme, (2) an extension and training programme, and (3) strengthening of the
aquaculture support system.
Under the technical support programme one hatchery centre would be developed in
Rantau Rasau (Jambi), Teluk Kiambange (Indragiri, Riau) and Sci Kakap (West
Kalimantan) each, to improve fry supply. A total of forty-seven demonstration ponds in
selected schemes would demonstrate different pond designs, their construction, and
operation (including otter control), and water quality management (liming, flushing). The
technical support programme also includes research facilities in selected sites.
1 ne extension and training programme, which will channel the results of the aquacultural
research, is directed to extension workers and key farmers. The programme involves five
training courses (pond construction without Potential Acid Sulphate Soils; pond
management; rice-field and livestock-fish culture; fish processing; and institutional
development).
Improvement of the support system involves establishment of fish farmers groups,
processing Pnd marketing, credit availability and consulting services.
3.3.6 xi  ,plenie:t;la-y Settlement Scheimie
The project would support the supplementary settlement of about 400 families in Jambi,
about 870 families in West Kalimantan and about 600 families in Riau (Siak Kecil). In
Th 'miuoci Sudy for Rimu (tR3) *wihi.. a of i_.t pea atd plan dueasm by substative snot "iric-
me. a ptweiwd by e bnmeim
7  Neate d a dysfunctui haZceuy azci in te Tdu" rumbang achmn (mi lawn).
19



- 1F~~~-
Second dgfll; prined I Novmber 1992
Jambi, about 200 families would be settled in each of Simpang Pandan and Lagan Hulu.
In West Kalimantan they would be distributed as about 175 in Rasau Jaya III, 150 in
Pinang Luar, 125 in Arus Deras, 120 in Pinang Dalam, 50 in Jangkang 1, 175 in Air
Putih and 75 in Desa Kubu.
Land suitable for settlement would be identified through Survey and Investigation of
Rights (by National Land Board) and appropriate soils and topography surveys.
3.3.7 Envirommental Component
This component consists of environmental management and monitoring of the project and
would be implemented through the Directorate of Programme Planning. The
environmental management component would be implemented during the construction
phases of the project, the purpose being to reduce the environmental impacts during this
critical stage. Environmental management would include:
o     supervision during civil works construction to minimize the negative impact
on crop production;
o     assessing the need for compensation arising from any damage; and
o     training of extension workers in the correct use of agricultural chemicals.
Project monitoring studies would be undertaken during the third and fifth years of the
project to determine its impact and to identify any problems
20
:r-



.r,
Second dnlt; pnnted I November 1992
4.0   EXYISTING PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
4.1 CLIMATE
All project schemes are located on coastal plains with a tropical climate characterized by
permanent high temperatures, absolute and relative humidity (always above 90%) and
precipitation. Monthly temperature variations (26-27 C) are negligible compared to daily
variations. Monthly rainfall varies greatly and all project schemes experience at least one
pronounced, long wet season (centred around November and December, with a second
peak around April) and onc mild, short 'drier' season (about June to August).
4.1.1 Riau
The Siak sub-project area has an equatorial rainfall distribution characterized by two
peaks of rainfall and a weakly developed dry season. There are 7-9 consecutive months
with a monthly rainfall more than 200 mm, and less than two months with rainfall less
than 100 mm. Average annual rainfall in the Siak area is about 2,300 mm.
The Indragiri sub-project area is also located in the equatorial zone, but is characterized
by a single rainy season and one dry season. Average annual rainfall at Rengat, near the
schemes, is 2,230 mm, tempertures vary between 26.0 and 27.6 'C (Table I and Figure
1) and humidity is a constant 98%.
Average annual sunshine hours are about 50-52% or 1900-2000 hours. During the main
wet season, October-January, they are lower at about 3845% or 4.0-4.9 hours per day.
4.1.2 Jambi
A singlc, five to six months wet season and a mild dry season of less than two months
characterize the Jambi project schemes. November and December are the wettest months,
June to August the driest (but still over 100 mm). Mean annual rainfall is 2,202 mm.
Table I and Figure I give average monthly rainfall figures over the period 1960-1989, for
Jambi airport, ca. 80 km south-west of the project schemes.
Mean annual temperature is 26.5 'C, with monthly maxima between 32.4 °C (June) and
30.0 eC (January) and monthly minima between 22.3 eC (January) and 23.3 "C (May).
Average annual sunshine hours are 52% or about 2,000 hours. Dtiiing the wet season
(October to April) sunshine hours are lower at abouit 45%  or 4.9 hoir Per day. The
growing, scason fhr lcioth aninals etnd t-ecs is    C" 9  ;per y";r in the zrea of ihc
schcnics.
4.1.3 West Kalimantan
The Kapuas coastal swamplands have a yearly rainfall of approximately 3,053 mm with
highest monthly precipitation between October and Deemmber. This is correlated with the
reported floods at the project schemes in the months of December and January. However,
21



Second draft; pnied I November 1992
total precipitation increases towards the area south of Kubu. Driest months, but still with
more than 100 mm, are June to August.
West Kalimantan temperatures vary little, with monthly maxima of 29 eC to 33 eC and
mean monthly minima of 22 0C to 26 eC throughout the area. Relative humidity is high,
between 83% and 91 %. On average the growing season is about 8-10 months long in this
coastal region.
Table 1:     Rainfall and temperature data for Rengat (Indragiri, Riau), Jambi (airport).
and Pontianak (airport). Observation period 16-30 years.
(Sosse e f!     MR 1; te.u.hw RePPPmT. MUN I9)
RIAU                  JAMBI              W KALUMANTAN
Rainfall Temperature   Rainfall Temperature    Rainfall Temperature
Jan       178        26.0         183       25.9         231        27.0
Feb       184        26.2        175        26.3         196        27.4
Mar       224        26.0        243        26.4         231        27.7
Apr       271        26.2        264        26.7         272        28.0
May       182        27.3        181        27.0         246        28.2
Jun       120        27.6         114       27.1         193        27.3
Jul       122        26.7         101       26.5         200        27.5
Aug       107        26.6        113        26.7         163        27.6
Sep       179        26.8        134        26.6         267        27.5
Oct       179        27.0        193        26.6         336        27.7
Nov       265        26.7        248        26.5        392         27.1
Dcc       219        26.3        253        26.0        326         27.2
Mean    -           26.6        -          26.5        -           27.6
Totd   2.230      -            2.202      -           3.053      -
4.2 GEOLOGY
The lambi and Riau Project areas are part of the extensive svampy coastal plain of
Surnatrz. Gcologically this coastal plain is a part of the huge basin (synclinoriuri;) lyiing
parallel and tD the north of the anticlinorium which stretches from the town of Kotatengah
via Pekanbaru and Air Molek to Jambi. It is filled with volcanic tuffs and erosion
products of the Barisan mountains. The synclinorium was subsequently covered with
marine and alluvial deposits.
22
.,_.~~~~~~~



Secod daft; pnnaed I Novmber IW2
Riau
Total: 2,230 mrnMy                             Mean: 26.6 dgr.C
300                  2715
250                                                                27.5
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
E 150                                                                 26.5 S
E10
E ~ loo    =2   "                                                  26 n    0} ff  
C
502
C   .0 ~~~~-      Cr    3    CD  CL   Z
-~~  u.      CL  co -    -) 27              0       a)
Jambi
Total: 2.202 mm/y                           Mean: 26.5 dgr. C
l   450 * .                                                       28
350                                                               27.5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                            0
.300                                                                   JCD
c 250                                                               27 6 r
2                                                                  126.5 ,5
E 150                                                                    E
100                                     [71.I25
25.5
-;    t   n    L   >   <   >   §   n   <   X   O   __.__ _cm           _    I>   9
-~~  IL.  ~ ~     -~~  <   CD ~0    z    0
West Kalimantan          Ma:2.   g.
Total: 3.053 mmly     28.2n3927   dr
400                               23
*1 .i .  -]i 27.5
300                                                  rL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~250    .27                                                       27  to
~E 1200
-100F]-iu                                     -  .~ j2
'25.5
_                                                           125
*.~~~o 0                 L0                                0 l
-I'    _                                                                                    _~~~~~3 L 



Scond dMR. prineld I November 192
The project areas in Sumatra consist mainly of quatemary alluvial and delta deposits of
the Batanghari, Siak, Siak Kecil and Indragiri rivers and their tributaries although in the
northern parts of the Siak schemes and, extensively in the Indragiri schemes, thick marine
deposits of mainly clays have been found under the peat layers.
Due to a slow transgression of the sea during the Post-Pleistocene era, a tidal swamp
regime developed near the coast, with high tides entering the Lagan, Batanghari, Berbak
and Pamusiran rivers in Jambi as well as the Siak and Indragiri rivers in Riau.
Inundations took place, forming peat soils in the backswamps. In the delta areas the peat
developed mainly in the depressions in the middle of the 'islands, and predominandy
reached a thickness of less than 2 m. In the inland areas huge peat domes with a thickness
of more than 10 mn commonly developed: Many of the schemes are situated on the fringes
of these domes.
The West Kalimantan Project area has the simple physiography of alluvial floodplains,
comprising broad but low levees, peat-covered basins and an advancing shoreline of
intertidal mnudflats. The floodplains consist almost completely of quaternary.alluvial and
delta deposits of the Kapuas River and its tributaries.
As in the other project areas, due to a slow transgression of the sea during the
Post-Pleistocene era, at near-coastal sites a tidal swamp area developed with high tides
entering the estuaries up to 20 km inland. Between these wide estuaries deep oligotrophic
peat deposits (peat domes) have developed on top of these clay basins, reaching height of
5-10 m above mean river level, and up to 10 meters thick in the oldest and most
developed swamps. Towards the coast and river margins the peat gradually becomes less
thick..
Scattered as isolhed hilly 'islands' protruding through the swamplands of the region are
intrusive granites. Very conspicuous in the West Kalimantan area are the Ambawang
mountains (412 m high) north of the Ambawang river forming an inselberg consisting of
acid granite, ar.d the source of the only non-peaty freshwater streams of importance (Air
Putih, Arus Deras).
4.3   SOIIS
There are three basic soil orders in most coastal swamp areas:
o     Marine alluvial deposits; alluvial soils that have been acted upon by saline
or brack`ish water for lonn. periods of linic (lncepfiso's or Yinvaquents -
*  USDJA, 1975),
o     Fresh water alluvial deposits; recent and sub-recenl alluvial soils from
inland, not influenced by sea or brackish water (Entisols or Tropaquents -
USDA, 1975),
24
,. :s .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second dmtf; pnnted I Novembnr 192
o     Peat soils; organic soils formed from partly decomposed detitus from
swamp vegetation. Peat soils range from pure organic peat to soils with a
high admixture of mineral material (Hibtosols or Tropofibrists - USDA,
1975).
In general, marine deposits occur below the two other soil orders and are more or less
permanently waterlogged. After drainage marine soils become very acid and are called
acid sulphate soils. Before drainage when they are not exposed, the same soils are called
potential acid sulphate soils (PASS).
Acid sulphate soils come into existence after drainage and aeration of originally
waterlogged soils that contain sulphur (mosdy as pyrite - FcS2). Sulphuric acid is formred
which is partly neutralized by soil mineral and partly leached. The remaining acid lowers
the soil pH to levels were Aluminum, Iron and Manganese dissolve causing toxicity to
plants and fish.
Quantities of pyrite present in PASS soils may be in the range of less than I % to more
than 6%. Soils with more than 1.4% pyrite (sulphuric) are capable on drainage of
producing high amounts of acid (up to pH 2.5) and toxic levels of metals.
Histosols (or Tropofibrists) have a high content of organic matter and usually have a
CN-ratio (organic content) of more than 30% and an acidity of pH 4 or less (acid).
Histosols always contain peat, and can be many meters deep in some areas. Peat has an
enormous capacity to hold water, so that even in the dry season, peat soils can contain
large amounts of fresh water. Peat has a low vetrical permeability to water, but a high
horizontal permeability.
Concave 'peat domes' form in areas of deep peat soil and these become lewated above
the surrounding land and rivers. Therefore, the watcr supply to these domes can only
come from rainwater and not from rivers. Consequently, these peat domes, and the
forests on them, are relatively nutrient poor, as tropical rains leached the peats for
centuries
Tlhese Histosols are usually waterlogged or inundated the whole year round. They can
only be utilized for agriculture if the peat water is removed. This will, however, cause
soil subsidence, which, depending on the peat depth, may amount to several meters.
Classification of soils according to their Grcat Soil Groups (USDA 1975) within the
.schcmes r-cvcIs sonim quitr distincr diffcernccs bawcrcn projcc! areas, evcn though ti-y
arc Or sinil';u uri-ins:
o     In Jambi the major great groups are Troposaprists (about 56%  of the
project area), Tropoquepts (21%), Fluvaquents (9%) and Tropohemists
(9X%)
25



SecoJd dmft. pnrmed I Novenubr 1992
o     In the Siak sub-project area the main great groups are Tropohemists (37%),
Tropoquepts (31%), Humaquepts (17%) and Troposaprists (12%) whereas
in  Indragiri  they  are  Fluvaquents  (35%),  Tropohemists  (29%),
Troposaprists (15%), Haplaquents (5%) and Sulfaquents (5%).
o     In the West Kalimantan project area the main great groups of soils are
Tropohemists (35%), Tropoquepts (19%), Sulfihemists (12%), Sulfaquents
(11%) and Haplaquents (6%).
There is a considerable range of subgroups within each of the project areas. Swamp
mineral soils typically account for about 44-51% of each project/sub-project area with the
remainder of the area a mixture of peaty mineral and peat soils.
Soils throughout the project area are excessively acid and very strongly acid (pH 3.6-5.0).
Peat depth is typically up to 150 cm although depths in excess of 400 cm are found to a
limited extent throughout the project area.
Other than in the Siak sub-project area, pyrite laycrs occur throughout the project area.
In Jambi, pyrite layers within 150 cm of the surface occur in all schemes and represent
6% of the total project area.
In Indragiri, about 6% of the area has a pyrite layer within 50 cm of the surface, 24% in
the range 50-100 cm. 439% below 100 cm and 27% has no detectable pyrite layer.
PASS soils occur very frequently in West Kalimantan (Map 4C, Environmental Issues),
with over 55% of the project area (up to 200 cm soil depth). About 55% of the schemcs
soils is classified as peat soils, with a peat horizon of more than 40 cm. About 10% of
the total ISDP project area has soils with peat thicker than 150 cm.
Soils are chemically moderately to highly fertile in Jambi and Siak, slightly less ferfile in
Indragiri and least fertile in West Kalimantan. However, throughout the project area soils
were found sufficiently suitable to support production of agricultural crops.
4.4 LAND SYSTEMS
Land systems are units of land that show similarity in micro-climatic condition, land
form, soils, geology and natural vegetation. The most widely used basis of land system
classification in Indonesia is that proposed by RcPPProT (1987, 1988). The followin-
RJelTPl'rcoT lar,d systems occur within thc region or7 1thC project schnmcs, of wlich the firs!
two land systems (Mendawai atid Kahayan) are by far tiic most important by arca:
o     Mendawai (MDW): peat land with peat depth of 50-200 cm, originally
covered with peatswamp forest;
26
-.



Second dnat; ptimd I Novawu*r 392W
o     Kahayan (KHY): lowland estuarine or river plain with sandy soils,
relatively close to the coast. Soils are a combination between alluvial and
marine sands, while locally shallow peat may occur. The land is regularly
flooded, but flooding is not usually severe. Severe flooding can be expected
every 50-100 yeas. Originally covered with freshwater swamp forest and
riverine forest;
o     Gambut (GBI): deep peat land (peat layer more than 2 m deep), usually
forming domes. Originally, the land was covered by peatswainp forest;
o     MMlan  (KLR): permanently waterlogged. peaty floodplain. Flooding may
occur, but does not harm the system. Swamp forest is the naturl
vegetation;
o     Sebanaun (SBG): meander belts of large rivers with broad  levees.
Seasonally inundated. Originally covered with swamp forest;
o     Beli (BLI): swampy floodplain in narrow valleys with sandy or clayey
soils, forming permanent lakes, or at least permanently inundated. Flooding
may occur, but will not harm the system. Originally covered with swamp
forest.
o     Kajapah (KJP): inter-tidal mudflats with Sulphaquent (PASS) soils. The
land and ground water are saline due to continuous influx of sea water at
high tide. Naturally the land is covered by mangrove forest and other beach
vegetation.
O     Muara Bditi (MBI): undulating to rolling tuffaceous sedimentary plain,
with slightly acid fine sands, without flooding (only one area between
Dendang II and Lagan Hulu [around the Telur Hill], and one area on the
right bank of the Berbak River opposite Simpang Puding, Jambi).
o     Sungai Aur (SAR): hillocky plains on tuffaceous sediments in wet areas,
with slightly acid fine sands, with some flooding (only one small area in
Dendang II, Jambi).
Rian
In the Siak sub-project area, the main land systems are Kahayan along the Siak Besar
Rivcr, Klaru and t'enclawai alon. t!: .';i;:k i'ccl River, and Pt1cne;:!.-.i and Gan.but in
areaus on or: adjacent to the schemes.
In the Indragiri sub-project area, the principle land units are Kahayan and Sebangun along
the Indagiri River, Beliti in the Kuala Cinaku area, and Mendawai in areas further away
from the river systems.
27
.      -



Second drf; pirnted I November 1992
Jambi
The deltaic 'island' between the Berbak and Batanghari Rivers, where five of Jamnbi's ten
ISDP schemes are located, consists almost completely of tie Kahayan land-system. There,
onl: narrow zones of Kajapah mudflats occur along the coast (under the Paniai Timur
mangrove reserve) and the coastal part of the Parnusiran River.
The remaining five schemes are located south and west of the Batanghari River, but still
on the extreme fringes of the Kahayan land system, and close to the Mendawai land-
system that dominates the land south of the Batanghari River. Parts of Lagan Hulu are
located in Mendawai and a western part of Dendang 11 in Sungai Aur and Muara Beliti
land systems.
West Ialimantan
The western sub-project area is completely situated in the Kahayan landsystem, with large
areas of PASS soils. Thle coastal mangroves and Nypah formations along the Kapuas and
Punggur Besar rivers is characterized by the Kajapah landsystem.
Sei Nipah of the eastern sub-project area is located in the Kahayan type. Rasau Jaya (1, 11
and Ill), Sci Radak, Olak-Olak Kubu, Sei Bulan, Pinang Dalam occur in the Mendawai
landsystem with moderate peat underlain by PASS soils. Schemes like Pinang Luar and
Arus Deras are on Mendawai with Gambut landsystem around the margins. Air Putih
covers for about 60% the Kahayan system and for the remaining 40% the Mendawai
system. A special case is the location of the Desa Kubu scheme with 50% in the Kajapah
tidal swamplands and the remaining (more successful) part on Mendawai landsystem. The
tidal swamps of Selat Padang Tikar and Selat Panjang are of the Kajapah type.
4.5 HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY
The Siak sub-project area has two main systems, the Siak Besar and Siak Kecil rivers.
There is a navigation canal linking the two rivers and another further downstream on the
Siak Kecil which links a wide bend near Block A. In the dry season, saline intrusion
reaches the Siak Kecil River via the main navigation canal.
The Indragiri sub-project area is dominated by the Indragiri River. All schemes are
located on either side of this major waterway. The river meanders strongly in the vicinity
of the schemes and flooding during December and January is a regular event. Salt does
not intrude into the Indragiri schemes.
*  here are two major (brown water) rivcrs in the Jambi project arca: the Batanighari and
thc Berbak River, the latter in fact a large branch of the former. A smaller branch from
the Batanghari, the Pamusiran (Dalam) river, separates the Simpang Puding and Rantau
P-aau schenes from the other schemes on the deltaic 'island' formed by the Batanghari
and Barbak. A s:ond, artificial waterway cuts through the 'island' from the Batanghari
28



Second daft; pnied I November 1992
to the coast, a litfle further west. There, the navigation canal through the Lambur scheme
connects to the head water of the small -originally blackwater- river Simbur Naik.
The Dendang River and the Sabak Rivers are two blackwater tributaries, to the
Batanghari, near its estuary. A third and major blackwater river, the Lagan River, flows
south to north just west of the Batanghari estuary. A navigation canal connects the Lagan
and Sabak rivers.
The West Kalimantan project area encompasses the estuarine area of the Kapuas, Punggur
Besar, Ambawang. Kubu and Terentang rivers. Water Ivels in these river sections of the
project area are influenced by the tide which is basically semi-diurnal. In the dry season,
saline intrusions penetrate 20 km up the Kapuas river system. The saline or brackish
water does not in general migrate in underlying (peaty water) aquifers because of the
predominant seaward movement of the freshwater. However, saline ground water
conditions have been reported in coastal areas adjacent to Kubu and the rest of the Kapuas
delta. Areas like Kapuas Kecil, Sci Nipah and Desa Kubu are negatively effected by this.
This might be related to the large scale conversions of peatswamp forests and the
manmade drainage system.
Water levels are also influenced by the river discharge which grows in importance inland.
The Kapuas river and its adjoining rivers cover a catchment of about 85,650 km2 and
this, the longest river in Indonesia, has a mean flow of 6,214 ml/s.
Analyses have been undertaken of tidal fluctuations during spring and neap tides for each
project area and also for drainage requirements. Based on a five-year return period the
drainage requirements for the Ja.mbi project arca were estimated as 14.85 i/sec/ha for
village areas, 3.14 1/sectha for paddy fields and 7.0 I/seclha for tree crops. For Riau the
requirements were estimated as 16.22, 3.27 and 7.13 I/sec/ha respectively and for West
Kalimantan as 15.56, 3.92 and 7.78 I/sec/ha respectively.
Although most schemes have sufficient amounts of fresh water, even in the dry season,
water quality is low. The amount of pollutants like ammonia (NH.), Nitrate (N0-) and
Nitrite(NO) and coliform bacteria makes water in the dainage canals at the scherres
unsuitable as drinling water. This is because these waters are also used for household and
sanitation purposes. These waters are slightly acid on average (pH 5) but this increases in
periods without much rain. This acidity and N-levels also makes it unsuitable as water for
aquaculture and animal husbandry.
The water quality situation in rivcrs running throug! the ISDP schemes is slightly bcntcr,
blui wou:d still ineed proccssino be,ore attaining thc stpndards set as drinkirng water (Group
A, KLH; IIP no. 20, 1990). Scdiment levels are high, especially during the rainy season.
Ground water rsources at most sites have tDo high levels of Iron (Fe), Manganese (Mn)
and Ammonia (NH3) because of peat and acid sulphate soils, which makes this water
unsuitable for consumption.
29
.L -



Second dra; prnmcd I Noemgwr 1"2
4.6 FLOODS AND INUNDATION
Inundations are classified according to cause. They are:
o     inundation by the maximum flood occurring within the past 10 years in the
scheme;
o     inundation by annual flood within the scheme;
o     inundation by spring tide (and high tide) during dry season; and
o     inundation by spring tide (and high tide) during wet season.
Maximum and annual flood data are useful for assessing the need for flood control
whereas spring tide inundation can be used for assessing tidal irrigation possibilities.
Basic data conceming extent, depth, duration and date were collected from the leaders of
all project villages and the results projected onto individual scheme contour maps
(Technical Report No. 1). The accuracy of inundation maps was validated by comparing a
limited number of flood mark elevations, which were identified with the assistance of
house owners, and the inundation depths shown on the prepared maps. Table 2 shows
areas inundated per (sub-)project area under various conditions. Apart from  direct
inundation from the major river systems, some schemes are affected by local flooding
which originates from peat swamp forest inland from the major rivers.
Table 2:     Areas inundated per (sub-)project area. No data available for the westem
sub-project area West Kalimantan (schemes are either protected by dikes or
relatively higher).
(Sace: Tecbaicl Repon I 'Hyd,~.Tables 6.2.6.4 and 6.6)
TIDAL INUNDATION
(spring tides)
TOTAL AREA         NAX.        ANNUAL          WEI           DRY
FLOOD'        FLOOD         SEASON       SEASON
(ha)    %      (ha)   %      (ha)   %      (ha)   S      (ha)  %
Jambi       43.737  100%  26,681  61%   18,504 43%    11,911 -71%   1.145  3%
.I: a 913.t.4R3  IC00   4.S33  35%    Pg47  6 ta 0  p'                 0  Or
Indi,,iri   18.527  100%  11.855  64 %    5,707 31S    3.048  16%    2.455 135S
W Kalimantn 25.912  100%   4.440  17%    3.610  14%   12,110 47%      750  3%
*     -  -___                     __            _   _             _
Total      101,189  100%  47,809  47%   28,968 28%   27,069 27%   4,350  4%
Maximum flood in pas ten yeas
30
F.:.
A .



.J
Second do1k; pnined I Navenewr 1992
4.3 LAND SUITABILITY
Land suitability is categorized into 5 classes':    SI    highly suitable;
S2    moderately suitable;
S3    marginally suitable;
NI    currently not suitable; and
N2    permanently not suitable.
Class SI is the highest and class S3 is the lowest in productivity. This does not mean that
class SI has always higher yields than class S2. Rather, it means that class SI can be
managed more economically than class S2 to prbduce the desired yield. Soils in classes
S2 and S3 have some limiting factors for the land uses and managemcnt practice, in
which case the limiting factors are marked to help soil management.
In the Siak (sub-)project area, the higher suitability classes (SI and S2) are dominant for
all three crop categories (rice, palawija, tree/root crops). At the other extreme. the least
suitable land classes (S2 and S3) dominate in Jambi. In general the soils of the project
reas are mostly suitable for agricultural purpose. Table 3 summarizes land suitability for
the (sub-)project areas. The main limiting factors for crop production are drainage,
acidity, deep peat, and flooding. Occasionally low fertility and pyrite layer are also
important.
Table 3:      Summary of land suitability for the (sub-)project areas.cso.c Technical Repl 4
Vowne U. Tabks  4.5.49 and 4.13)
SIAK        IDRAGIRI         JAMBI        KALINIANTAN
(ha    %       (ha)    %              %       (h)    %
Tola 22.040  100%   18.090  IOOS   4'.740  100%   42,486   100%
Unsuitbleforrice            5.051   23%    1.835  10%    5.496   13%      7,417    17%
Unsutable for palawija      5.051  23%    2.319   13%    6.048   14%    7.417    17%
Unsuitable for trlroot crops   3.450   16%    1.404   8 %    3.252   85%    6.054    14%
Most common classes
Sl for nce                 11.191   51%
Sl and S2 for palawija     13.290  60%
Sl and S2 for treeiroot crops   13.928  63%
S2 and S3 for rice                        16.2S5   9)5                   29.S9    7u
S3 for palavwija                          14.096  795   34.169   82%   28,81    6E%
S3for trec&rootcrops                      15.011   83%   36.943   89%    31.581    74%
S2 for rice                                              29.410  70%
Them delinititia am tive, in Mhe Main Rapin. Amex 3. Table 20.
31
;,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



X *
Second dmA; prined I November 192
5.0 EXISTING BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
5.1 REGIONAL SETTING
The Greater Sundas, to which both Sumatra and Borneo belong, are part of the Oriental
zoogeographic Region, more specifically, of the Sunda Sub-region. Only recently -on a
geological and evolutionary timc scale- the Greater Sundas were separated from the south-
east Asian mainland. The Sunda Sub-region, which includes the Malay Peninsula,
Sumatra, Bomeo, Java and associated smaller islands, is a very rich tropical region on
both sides of the equator.
5.1.1 Sumatra - Riau and Jambi
Sumatra is the richest island in the Sub-region. Six-hundred bird (Andrew, 1992:1) and
over 196 mammal species (Whitten et al., 1984:44) occur on the island, many of which
are limited to Sumatra: Sumatra has 24 avian and 20 mammalian endemic species. A
number of species that are rare or extinct in other parts of Asia still have viable
populations in Sumatra. These species include flagship species such as the Asian Elephant
Elephas marimus, and the Sumatran Rhinoceros Dicerorhinus sumatrensis or sub-species
such as the Sumatran Tiger Panthera tigris swnixrae.
East of the Jambi ISDP schemes, lies the 171,635 hectares' large Berbak National Park,
and to the north the Huran .Bakau Pantai Timur Strict Nature Reserve of 6,500 hectares'"
mangrove forest. Biodiversity in the Berbak National Park is very high, and represents
the richness of the project area before it was settled and the schemes constructed. The
Park contains 260 wooden species, including 23 palm species (Arecaccae), highest of any
swamp area known (Giesen, 1992:109). Further over 250 bird species and more than 30
mammal species, among which endangered animals as Sumatran Tiger, Clouded Leopard
Neofelis nebulosa, Tapir Tapirus indicus, Sumatran Rhinoceros, as well as at least five
primates have been recorded, while probably most of the smaller species remain un-
documented.
The Berbak National Park is the first. and to date only, RAMSAR" area in South-East
Asia.
The Huan Bakau Pantai 7imur Reserve gains internatic al importance for its rich
avifauna, being a crucial foraging area for over 20,000 waterbirds and migratory waders
on their annual journeys from north and east Asia to Aus -_ia and back. The reserve
9 Due lo boundasy and other probirns. thc cxact surfacc of Ihe Beibak National Park rcr.mnsa unknown. but is probably
closer to I5O.OOOhbetres.
10 it is esilnid dat only 2.710.31M9 hectares rin or fe Hsm s aku Pmi w   Stilca Naturc Reserve (GIESEN
1992:1-2).
RAM-AR Covemeo.   Cosveuiim,non Wbetlnds or nsmuional pnym  qciaUy as Watrfiwl Habitat. 1971
33
. 



-Seond daft; pritded I Nov.mbdr 192
_        provides a (breeding) habitat for several endangered bird species, such as the Milky Stork
Mycteria cinerca and Lesser Adjutant Lep:oprilos javanicus, and a roost of Flying Fox
Pieropus vampyrus, a large fruit bat.
A number of conservation azras surround the Siak sub-project area, of which the Siak
Kecil Wildlife Reserve, some five kilometres west of the schemes is the most imr artant".
There is only one conservation area in the proximity of the Indragiri schemes: the
Kerumutan (Baru) Wildlife Reserve. Little is known on this reserve.
Some ISDP activities could impact the conservation areas, particularly the mangrove
reserve in Jambi, and the Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve, but none of the ISDP schemes
borders directly on conservation area".
The major habitats occurring in Sumatra are mangrove forests, rivers and  lakes,
peatswamp forests, freshwater swamp forests, lowland forests and montane forests
(Whitten ct at 1984). These forests support a range of plant species and vegetation
communities far richer than Java and Sulawesi, and comparable to the richest forests of
Borneo or New Guinea. There are 17 genera of endemic plants in Sumatra.
The eastern lowlands of Sumatra form one of the world's mosr extensive peat swamp
forests. Riau and Jambi provinces have the largest areas of mangrove and peat swamp
forest in Sumatra. Berbak National Park, in Jambi, represents the most -important
freshwater reserve in South East Asia.
The ISDP schemes are located within these castern lowlands and as such, mangrove and
peat swamp predominate the natural environment. However, the areas have had a long
history of agricultural settlement and timber harvesting, so that none of the areas near the
schemes are in an undisturbed state.
5.1.2 Borneo - West Kalimantan
Borneo is the largest land area in the Sunda biogeographical sub-region. The island is the
main distribution centre for many genera of the Indo-Malayan fauna and Malesian flora.
Borneo lies within the wettest part of thc Indonesian archipelago and supports the largest
expanse of lowland evergreen rainforest. Forest types include mangroves, peatswamp
forest, freshwater swamp forest, the most extensive heath forests (kerangas) in S.E. Asia,
lowland dipterocarp forest, ironwood forests and various types of-dipterocarps on hills
and mountains.
12 O    mhercoae tion *em am the Da_n PuIla lckr wVrif Reve. fin 25 km rnth.eaat or ihe mouthern Sik adices.
Wamd be Ekit 0anu W'Jdlife Reserve i-a 30 km th m or. nna
13 1n l1aw  the DeBk and B ;ingA Riven by lwom the scb  and the Naam Park. Tbehe ame 3 ISDP activiis
pbhoned ea of th_ uivem ID inigiri (Rin) the meat patus o thc KeXanan Natue Rerve mm 10020 kilometre fram
BiDP schm ad the Reueve i telatively .ssceskm tIh _al.
34
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



X    -r
Se  dnrlf prnted I Nowvembr 1992
The Island of Bomeo supports 483 bird species, however, only 479 occur in Kalimantan,
the Indonesian part of the Island (no statistics on the province of West Kalimantan).
Borneo as a whole has 4 endemic bird species, Kalimantan only one (Aandrew, 1992).
The Bornean fauna further includes 221 land mammals, the West Kalimantan fauna 103
mammals (Payne el al, 1985). Borneo is the richest of the Sunda islands floristically.
Endemnism is high through the whole flora with about 34% of all plant species and 59
gencra unique to the island. In comparison Sumatra has only 12% endemic species.
Borneo is marginally less rich in fauna than the island of Sumatra, except probably for
fish, amphibians and reptiles. Among Borneo's best known mammals are Orang Utang
and the Proboscis Monkey (Mackinnon, 1981).
West Kalimantan is of particular significance within the island as having some of the
richest and oldest forests within the island, particularly north of the Kapuas river. In
addition the extensive swamp forests and valuable Ramin (Gonysrylus bancanus) swamps
are of particular interest and economic importance. The Sentarum Wildlife Reserve at the
headwaters of the Kapuas river is a unique feature of the province with some of the oldest
known inland peat swamps and one of the only two island lake areas in Borneo.
The ISDP schemes arc situated in the Kapuas coastal swamplands large about 14,990
km2. Most of the area has been converted to other types of land-use or is strongly
degraded. Primary forest in this region is restricted to coastal mangrove and nipah
swamps. Considerable areas have been cleared many years ago for rubber and coconut
cultivation alongside the major tidal rivers, such as the Sambas, Kapuas and the Pawan.
Many of these have been removed under both Government-sponsored and local initiative
schemes which aim to drain and reduce peat depth further and sufficient for construction
of rice sawah. The only remaining protected forests occur on the coastal fringe between
Pontianak and Teluk Batang. It was proposed by RePPProT (1989) that all intertidal
forest should be designated a special kind ,' Protected Forcst in view of its importance
for coastal protection and fisheries. No conservation areas occur near the schernes in this
project area.
5.2   TERRESTRIAL AND AQUATIC ENVIRONMENT
The terrestrial and aquatic habitats in the region of the schemes are dominated by coastal
wetland systems. Since water plays such an important role in the functions of these
ecosystems, it is inappropriate to draw a clear distinction between tenestrial and aquatic-
environments. This section therefore describes the environment from such an integrated
pers=cctivc.
The areas can be sub-divided into two groups, thosc habitats with brackish-water
influence along the coast and along the tidal rivers and those habitats without any saline
influence farther inland. For details see appended Maps 1B-4B (Land-use /Forest Status).
In general, mangroves occur along the coast, brackish and freshwater riverine formations
along the major rivers, peat swamp forests on the peat-dome lands in between the rivers,
35



*; *
Second dftft; printed I Novemer 192
and swampy agricultural land and fallow land on the project schemes. Dominant plant
species of the environments in West Kalimantan are given in Table 4.
5.2.1 Mangrove and Coastal Environments
Mangroves occur in the estuaries of most river systems of the project areas. Tidal action
of the sea inundates these swamps daily, but the in-flowing freshwater from the river
system results in a brackish water environment with typical dominating tree species like
Sonneratia caseolarzs, Nypafrwicans, Xylocarpus grnatnum, and Bruguiera gymnorrhiza.
Unripened silty to clay soils dominate these swamps, but some locations in the estuaries
of the rivers show thick river deposits of peat originating from the large peat formations
inland. Characteristically, these soils are worked by Mud Lobsters (7halassina anomala)
which create huge mounds of soil around their burrows. This is also the habitat of the
Mangrove Crab (Scylla semra) which is a highly favoued restaurant seafood.
Riau Schemes
Mangrove associations are poorly represented on the Riau schemes, due to the distance
from the coast.
The Siak sites are upstream of salt intrusion, although there is a marked tidal effect. In
the vicinity of the Siak Kiri project area, the river is about 500 metres wide. The depth is
not known, although the river is navigable by large vessels in the vicinity of the
transmigration schemes. The banks are generally fringed with mangroves, mainly
Sonneraia spp. and are backed by secondary forest in areas not under cultivation. The
river is tidal in the area of the schemes and salt intrudes upstream to the mouth of the
Raya River.
Closer to the coast, the Sonnerawia stands give way to banks dominated by Nypa
fruricans, bamboo, and the fen, Acrostichum aureun, followed by a dense, fully
developed mangrove community at the mouth of Panjang Strait. Most of the coastal areas
at the mouth of the Siak Besar River remain in a natural, albeit disturbed condition.
The coastal areas of the Siak Kecil river are densely populated, with industries such as
sawmills and brick factories lining the banks. The vegetation along these lower reaches is
therefore highly disturbed, and natural vegetation is often interspersed with rubber
plantations and Acacia. Along the lower reaches of the river, the predominant bank
vegetation includes Ntpafiwicans. Pandanus helicopus, Oncosperma sigillarunr
Along the Indragiri river, ninnroves are sparse, and mrainly consist of Sonn;erefiv. Thc
schcmcs are Icmated sumc 100 km from the coast,so mangrove habiuts are not extensive.
Mangroves also line the smaller rivers and some primary canals in the Indragiri area.
36
.L
.. . J                                                                                      , 



Second dnft; prumed I November 1992
Table 4:       Dominant plant species in the West Kalimantan project area.
(S.te: rOM  dai)
I Mangroves and Coasal Envirownent III Freshwater Riverine Environment
Sonnerotia alba                        Glta vedwina
Sonneraiia cascalaris                   Cerbera odollm
Brmguiera Dgmnoftiza                   Ficw mirocapa
Rhizophora cpicuiua                    Heritiera iktoralis
IPjuiophora muoronara                  Paadwnu helicopaw
Xylocarpas grwuitwn
Hibisew tiliacts
Cerbra odollam                       IV (Degraded) Peatswanp Forest
iypafrw'icas                            Mabang
Acrostichum aureum                     Sherea
Acanrhus iliofolius                    Shorta temmanniani
Derris hereophyla coil. no 5            Dyer lowii
Brownjowia coll. no 2                   Koomparsirs maraccris
Araceac coil. no I                     Macarango
Oncospenna nigillaia
If Frehwater Riverine Environment    V Agricultural Land and Bwuned Peat Land
Glarta veluhina                        Lygodiamflersam
*      Cerbera odeilam                         pieridium cadari,n
Ficus microcarpa                        Neprolepsis biserraer
Heriiiera biorali                       Sienodiea palaruris
Paundaw  helicopus                     Dicranoprenriic naris
S&kria swnatrexsis
SciapUI grosr-,
n Man-Made Aquatic Environment         Ekeocais dulcis
Salvinia narars                         MeZsreoma malabahdiurn
HydriUa wnkiilaita                     Imperaa i drida
Jpomoe aquatica
Eichhornia crassipes
Utricularia
Ludwigia adsendens
Limnodwisjlama
Blyza
Bacopa  onnieri
ValUsneriw naans or V. spiralis
Monochoria hasrawa
Acthaws jilcifoliws
Acrosticium auream
Ceratopteris thaticiroides
I kcng,anr n:::trlnn;:
t, ScpLc grossus
Eliodgaris du1ris
37
4.



Second dmft; pnmted I Novnmber 19
Jambi Schemes
Extensive tracts of mangrove forest occur along the coast of Jambi. Most are protected,
though far from effective, in a Strict Nature Reserve, but some is of unclear status. Along
the estuaries of the Lagan, Simbur Naik and Pamusiran Rivers, the mangroves occur
further inland. Giesen (1991) gives a preliminary description of the ecology and
composition of chis Reseve, and recommendations for management. During a visit to
twelve sites Giesen's team recorded twenty-four plant specics, Avicennia alba and
Sonneraria caseolaris being common to (co)dominant at most sites. The mangrove belt
house important roosts (and breeding colonies?) of waterbirds. The AWB team located a
large Flying Fox Plcropus vampyrus roost in the mangroves between the estuaries of the
Batanghari and Lagan River, unreported by Giesen (1991).
Large stretches of mudflats are exposed at low tide. The mudflats are a very important
'refueling' station for 20,000 waterbirds and waters annually (more than estimated for the
Berbak NationalPark) on their joumeys between Australia, New Zealand or New Guinea,
and north, east and south Asia.
West Kalmanjan Schemes
Mangroves occur in the estuaries of the Kapuas Kecil, Punggur Besar, Ambawang and
Kubu/Radak rivers, Tespectively cast and south of the West Kalimantan project sites. One
area of mangroves is found in the estuary of the Punggur Besar river, on Laut Island,
Karunia Island and Nyamuk Island, close to Pontianak. Typically these mangrove forests
are bordered by a +50 m wide Nypa Palm zone, which merges into pure Nypa stands
along the rivers further inland. This riverine vegetation indicates the saline influence of
tidal water reaching at least 20 kn inland up to project schemes like Sei Nipah and Desa
Kubu.
Mangroves and Nypa are exploited by local people, including those from the project
schemes. On some locations, such as the coastal area of Jawi and the riverine borders of
Kalimas and Betutu, this exploitation has led to erosion of the banks. At Jawi a major
dike along the coast has been broken because of this erosion.
Of larger extend are the mangrove and Nypa swamps south and south-east of the project
schemes around Kubu (Selat Padang Tikar). This area which is richer in mangrove
species than thosc close to Kakap/Pontianak covers about 108.000 ha (RePPProt, 197)
and represent the largest area of mangroves remaining in West Kalimantan. About half of
the KIuiu schemne is still mangrove swamp and ha2 never bmcri fully dzv;opc-d bc'Ciu__ Of
inunrdaLion and saliniLy problems.
The mangroves of Selat Padang Tikar have been selectively exploited some 3 - 5 years
ago, in spite of its protected status (see Section 6.3 Land-use). Regeneration however, has
been vigorous, resulting in a good regrowth, especially of Rhizophora mucronara and R.
apiculara mangrove trees.
38
. o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second dmft: printed I Nowumbr 1992
Both mangrove areas in the east and south of the project sites are of importance for
riverine and near coastal fisheries given the large number of juvenile fish and prawns
observed during fieldwork. The two mangrove sites discussed harbour a large population
of Lesser Adjutant, z stork protected by Indonesian law. These forests also potentially
support a population of the Storm's Stork a very rare and endangered bird occurring in
West Kalimnantan. Proboscis Monkey, a endemic protected monkey has been observed in
these mangroves which might become the last stronghold for this species in the near
future when all riverine and swamp forests have been cleared for economic development.
5.2.2 Man-Made Aquatic Environments
The project areas are intersecfed by the many river tributaries and canals which drain the
swamp land for agriculture. These open water environments can be grouped into those
with a fresh to brackish water quality, those with predominantly peaty water and those
that are rain-fed.
Fresh to Brackish Water canals and streams are generally found close to the coast
in areas where tidal irrigation is practised. These systems receive water from the
nearby river at high tide, after which the canal is often blocked off.
In West Kalimantan, salinity levels vary-depending on season and tidal inundation,
and varied oetween 1.3 pmos and 8.2 jumos depending on tide. An average pH of
6 indicate. the marine influence in these PASS soil dominated environments. River
and canal border plants like Acmsgichum aureum and Acanthus ilicifolium also
indicate the influence of brackish tidal water. Dissolved oxygen levels measure
about 4.5-6 mg/I, which is lower than the maximum level (7.5 mgAI) possible at
the.average temperature found (30 C).
Typical fishes of brackish water environments include species of Tetraodontidae,
CGobiidac, Chandidac and Hemiramphidac. The Freshwater Prawn (Macrobrachium
rosenregii) occurs in high numbers in the larger canals and rivers.
At least nine species of herbaceous waterplants grow in these waters including
Salvian narans, Nymphaea nouchal, fpomoea aquatica, Blyxa and Ludvigia
adsendens.
Peat Water canals usually occur in those areas of the schemes which are farthest
from the main river. These canals are often dug in peat swamp areas and the water
th'.y contain has drained direcily front tiii swamnp. pll values are a:bout 3.5-5 and
conductivity (salinity) is bclow 0.15 pinos. Also oxygen levels (±4.5 pimns) of
thcs: waters wcre found lower than the maximum attainable level.
Peaty waters are considerable less rich in plant and animal species than those
surveyed in the brackish water environments. However, none of these peaty rivers
and canals can be considered as undisturbed and in a natural state. Only about 5
39



.9
* .'                                                              Secend d"^; p-irnd I Nowx6er 192
species of herbaceous waterplants grow in these waters, including Vallisneria,
Utricularia, and i9ymphaea nouchalJ.
Rain oE;d systems are commonly seen on schemes where tidal irrigation is not
practised, and the fields are too far removed from peat swamp areas to receive
ground water. In areas of rain-fed irrigation, these canals can become stagnant and
fauna living in them can become isolated for long periods during the dry season.
Riau Schemes
The Siak schemes are serviced by a network of canals. Tidal irrigatign is not practised in
this area, so canals are used for wet season drainage and rain-fed irrigation in the dry
season and thus, there are no fresh to brackish water habitats on the schemes. Generally,
secondary canals are closed during the dry season to retain water. The dry season canal
environment is quite different to that found in the adjacent rivers. Canals vary in size up
to 20m wide and 3m deep and are usually in exposed situations. There is very little
fringing vegetation, and often banks are bare. Canals are often choked with weeds,
particularly Water Hyacinth (Eichhomia crassipes). Other aquatic vegetation in the canals
includes Lotus Lily (Nelumbo nucdfera). Thesc habitats are frequently disturbed by farm
animals (eg. water buffalo, ducks, etc) or by people who regularly clear the weeds.
C
The Indragiri schemes contain numerous tidal irrigation canals. Although these are
generaly fresh, mangrove plants line the banks and brackish water fishes, such as
Mudskippers are common.
Peat water canals occur on both sub-projects, in most newly cleared areas away from the
rivers.
Jambi Schemes
In the Jambi project area, there are no canals that contain brackish water. All schemes are
intended to be irrigated by tidal forces. Therefore, water quality is very variable in all but
the smallest (tertiary) canals. During outgoing and low tide, black(ish) peaty water
dominates, sediment load and acidity (and probably disolved nutrients) drop, while tanines
increase, as ground water from soils in or around the schemes seeps into the canals.
During incoming and high tides, watcr from the Batanghari and Berbak is pushed into the
canals, replacing the peaty water with brown(ish) water, and the reverse process occurs.
The banks of most canals are covered with the same riverine vegetation as along natural
watcr courses. Whcrc bank verctation is absent, e.g., new or iniprovcd canals, bank.
erosion occurred in Simpang Puding (SKI), due to navigation by too large crafts.
Many of the smaller and some of the larger canals are clogged with weeds, particularly
Water Hyacinth and an unidentified floating grass species, impeding water flow. The
grass species seems to show a preference for waters influenced by acid sulphate soils. The
clogged upper reaches of the Lagan River are an extreme example, but the grass species
40
. I-
'i 



r
Second daft. ptinied I Novinmber 1992
occured also in the feeder canal to Block A of Simpang Pandan, the navigation canal of
Lambur and upper reaches of the Simbur Naik, in feeder canal PCI in Rantau Rasau and,
until recently, reportedly in Simpang Puding.
West JalWIantatn Schemes
The river water of the Kapuas estuary is a mixture of fresh water originating from the
catchment area in the mountains of castern West Kalimantan and the peaty blackish-brown
coloured waters from the extensive peatswamps in and outside the project area.
Roughly all those natural and man made waters east of Sei Nipah (along Punggur Besar
river) are peaty, slightly acid with pH 4-6 and Secchi values from 30 cm (larger turbid
rivers) to 140 cm (slow streaming drainage canals in peatland on the project sites).
During the rainy season (around December) rainwater will raise the average pH and
turbidity increases because erosion of riverbanks and other flooded bare soils. Water
quality data are given in Table 5.
Up to at least 15 km inland, and in particular on the project sites around Kakap (P2DR)
water quality is influenced by the daily tidal regime of the larger rivers. Brackish water
also enters the man made canals on the schemes, often with strong negative impact to
agricultural production. Areas of particular problems with salt intrusion are Desa Kubu,
Sci Nipah, Kapuas 11, Kalimas and Jawi.
Table 5:     Water quality parameters of schemes in West Kalimantan.
(Sourc: Add dam Sqrnibcr 1992)
Sdcme         Temperaie  pH  Secchi Depth Dissolved Coaductirity  Type or Water
CC)          Depth  (m)   Oxygen       (amnos)
(on)         (mg Oji)
Western Sub-project
K:apuasll                31      5.6   23      -        6           2.2  brackish
(Aimpera Laut R.)
Kaliinms (Block P)       31      5-6   23      -        4.S         57  brackish
Betutu (Nyrih R)         31      5-6   67    3.24       4.5         2.6  brackish
Betutu (Keriig R.)       31      5-6  123    3.38       3           3.26 -brackish   -
Jawi Uawi R.)            30      56   57       1.80     6           5.7  brackish
Eastern Suh-prn.iecl
l  Sci ,~:1: t;          29      4-5   54      1.25     4.5         0.15 blacklalluvial
liiiang Luar             30      4-5   51      1.91     4.5         -   blacklalluvial
Sei Radak                32      4-5   33    0.87       -           0.05 blacklalluvial
Sei Nipah                31      5-6   39      1.35     4.5         1.26 brackishalluvial
Air Piaih R.             29      4-5    -      -        4.5         -   black/aHluvial
}iubu                    31       6    145    2.90    1 (e)         -    brackishi
41



_   sSecond druft; priaud I Hovember 192
;    The canals in the schemes are particularly rich in typical brackish water fishes like,
Belontiidae, Tetraodontidae (Terraodon nigroviidis) and Chandidae (Parambassis wolfli,
P. microlepis) originating from the nearby mangrove environment. Burrowing crabs and
the mudlobster (7halassina anomala) are particular abundant in the earthen walls of the
canals undermining its stability.
S.2.3 Freshwater Riverine Environments
Two kinds of natural freshwater environments are recognisable on the schemes, those
river systems which are principally sourced in areas removed from the wetlands, and
those that are sourced in peatswamnp forest.
"Brownwater' Rivers These rivers are usually wide, long and tidal only in the.
lower reaches. They are slow flowing during the dry season and carry a high
sediment load. Very conspicuous are the borders of riparian vegetation along these
rivers, which are frequently inundated up to ISO m width. On these sites water
quality is determnined by a mixture of peaty or muddy sediments which give an
average pH of 6, and low to very low salinity levels. The vegetation is dominated
by Rengas (Giwua velina), Beringin (Ficus microcarpa), Pandan (Pandanus
helicopus) and Dungung (Hertiera lioralis).
At undisturbed sites, the tree canopy rcaches a height of 35 m (Heritiera litioralis)
and is backed at the swampy riverside by a dense canopy of Ficus spp. This is the
natural location where monkeys like Proboscis Monkey. Silvered Leaf-monkey and
Long-tailed Macaque forage at dawn and dusk, and find shelter for the night.
*         'Blackwater" Rivers are characterised by a dark wlouration caused by high tannin
content and a low pH (3-5). lhese rivers drain the peatswamp forests near the
schemes. They are generally fringed by a dense overhanging cover of Rasau
Pandanus helicopus and Hanguana maIayana.
Riau Schemes
The Siak Besar River is one of the major waterways of eastern Sumatra. It originates in
the swamp and hill country of western Riau and flows through the provincial capital of
Pekanbaru. It winds throughl low lying swamp country and eventually discharges to the
sea in Panjang Strait. Trhe Siak Besar is a muddy, brownwater river. There are a number
of settlements and factories along it's length.
Smn.aller rivers, includin.- the Buantan, Raya, Langsat and Tasip flow through the Siak
Kiri schemes into the Sialk Besar. These are al blackwater rivers which drain the peat
swamps to the west of Siak Kiri. They are geneally small, fast flowing streams and the
banks are largely disturbed in fte downstream areas where there is settlement. They are
tidal in the lower reaches. Further upstrm, they are fringed with dense vegetation. A
pH of 4.0 was recorded in the upper Buantan River.
42



Second deft; prinend I NoHaembr I992
The Siak Kecil River originates in a series of quite unusual, dystrophic freshwater lakes
on deep deats, which occur in peatswamp forest to the west of the schcmes. This area is
within the Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve. In the vicinity of the schemes, this river is about
10-25 metres wide. Blackwater stretches reach 'to about the area of the new navigation
canal, where there is influerce from the Siak Besar River. The banks are gcnerally
fringed by dense stands of Pandanus helicopus to 3m height which overhang the river.
There are also low shrubs and ferns. The areas near the river are largely cultivated, but
some areas of secondary forest remain.
The river is tidal at least as far upstream as the Siak Kecil Reserve. At low tide, there are
extensive areas of mudflats, many of which are vegetated by sedges. The limit of salt
intrusion is reported to be in the area of the lower navigation canal near Block Al.
However, salt now intrudes into the river via the new navigation canal and reaches as far
as Block K during the dry season (see Map IC, Environmental Issues).
The Indragiri River is a large, slow-flowing river which meanders through the lowlands
of southern Riau province and discharges into the sea opposite Bakung Island. In the
vicinity of the transmigration schemes, the river is about 500-800 metres wide, brown in
colour and very turbid. All of the schemes are affected by tidal influence but salt water
intrusion does not reach the area. The river has a sandy substrate and at low tide,
numerous sandbars are exposed. Bank vegetation is generally low, scattered and shrubby.
There are several blackwater streams occurring amongst the Indragiri schemes, notably
the Cinaku, Enok and Mumpa Rivers. Tidal irrigation is practised in many of the
irrigation canals.
Jambi Scheme
The Batanghari, Berbak and Pamusiran River are (very) large, slowly flowing
brownwater rivers with heavy sediment loads. The Batanghari originates in Sumatra's
central cordillera, the Berbak River is a main branch of the Batangahari, the Pamusiran a
minor offshoot. Only the Pamusiran and Berbak are completely under tidal influence, the
Batanghari only in its lower mach, up to at least twenty-five kilometres upstream of the
project area.
Other smaller, but still important rivers in the project area originate(d) in peatswamp
forest and are (or were) blackwater rivers: Lagan, Sabak, Dendang and Simbur Naik
Rivers. The AWB team measured pH's of 3.5-5.0 in these river. The Simbur Naik is now
of mixed nature, but bro.vnwatcr predloininatcs, duc to the connectioi of its source ;rca to
the central navigation canal through the Lamiburr scnemc, an(d cventually to the
Batanghari.
The banks of the Lagan, Simbur Naik and Pamusiran Rivers are vegetated with.
mangroves directly behind the coast and extensive belts of Nypab further upstream. The
Sabak and Dendang Rivers do not debouche in the sea, but in the Batanghari, and have
only minor patches of Nypah. All Nypah areas show signs of extensive exploitation by
43
.  .



Sceond draft: pnied I Navcnbcr 1992
humans. We found little or no Nypah inside schemes, most likely because of the distance
to the sea.
.                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
West Kaimaniw  Schemes
The best remaining habitats are located along the Kubu river, in particular close to
Jangkang and Pinang Dalam. On average these forests have been strongly degraded by
land clearing by transmigrant sites more inland and by local people traditionally living
along Lhe river borders. Eroding river borders are a result of this.
5.2.4 Peatswamp Forests
Huge tracks of peatswamp forests dominated the ecology of the coastal swamps, but.
commercial logging operations (on some locations twice) have extracted all valuable logs,
leaving very open stands of heavily degraded forest. Conversions to agricultural land and
settlements have further reduced the remaining area of logged-over peatswamp forest.
Typically, forested peat areas formn peat domes between the main rivers. Peat depth is
largest in the centre of the dome reaching levels up to 10 m and thinnest at the margins,
gradually being replaced by riverine sediments with a mixed swamp forest. These forests
are very wet even in the dry season because of the water retention in peat deposits.
Drainage water from these soils flowing in natural streams or man made canals has an
average pH of 3-5 and is coffee black in colour.
Most of the settlements under this project have been located at the margins of the
peatswamnp forests, converting most of the mixed swamp forests. Analysis of the soil
maps and the field survey indicate that there are still sections of the project sites showing
the occurrence of peat layers thicker than 2m.
Riau Schemes
On many schemes, particularly those where there is insufficient labour, natural forest still
occurs inside and near the scheme boundaries. The condition of this forest is variable, but
is usually degraded to some extent. These areas are the most frequent targets for wood
gathering by locals and transmigrants, since they are the closest areas available for
harvest and they are often dissected by old canals which allow access and also tend to
drain the peatswamp forest. On the other hand, many areas are in better condition than
the adjacent forest which is under loggging concession. These areas can be rich in wildlife
because-they represent refuge and ecotonal habit.-ts.
Anderson (1975) documented the ecology of peatswamp forests in the Siak and Indragiri
schemes.
The swamps in the vicinity of the Siak rivers are of immense size. Anderson recorded a
total of 73 large tree species from only four plots, the dominant ones being Palaqulwm
bwreid, Shorea teysmawuana and Bueddrnkuw7i. There are extensive areas of
.  .... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4
. ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. .



Second dnft- pntaed I Novgmbcr 1992
apadang' vegetation (small trees with a pole-like aspect). Licuala spinosa is a common
understorey palm. In the Indragiri area, 82 tree species were recorded, the commonest
being Dyera lowii, Gonystylus bancanus, Knema inmermedia and Shorea plarycarpa.
Jambi Schemes
Peatswamp forests remain on the schemes. There is more peatswamp forest affccted than
suggested by the reported 3,331 hectares of un(der)devclopcd land under shrub or alang-
alang. Wholc secLions (primary canals) of schemes werc never settled afher the canals
were constructed (Dendang I-III, Lagan Hulu). Midway between (primary/secondary)
canals of the same schemes, large tracts of (heavily) disturbed peatswamp .orest remain,
mostly as LU2 land, but also as unsuitable LUI land. Such p,eatswamp forest is dying.
One reason is the network of (drainage) canals around it that drains and dries the peat.
Another reason is the frequency of (sub-soil) fires in the dried peats. Judging from their
roaring 'calls' the 'chainsaw-bird' is a common form of 'wildlife' in such remnants of the
peatswamp forest.
We do not know of publications for the Jambi schemes, comparable to Anderson's (1975)
study on the ecology of peatswamp forest of whar is now under cultihation in Riau or
West Kalimantan.
West Kalimantan Schemes
Detailed vegetation studies (Anderson, 1975) on those locations not yet affected by the
establishment of the transmigrant sites and draining these swamps by MPW reveal the
species richness of the original forests. A total of 95 tree species (see Table 6) was
recorded for the area between Kuala Durian and the present Raszu Jaya project site. The
peatswamp forest at the centre of the dome had an average of 1,250 trees (exceeding 30
cm girth at breast height), forming a typical Padang Pole Forest with no trees exceeding
150cm  girth. The Padang, with  tree species like Palaquium  cochleariifoliwn,
Dacrylocladus stenostachys, Diospyros evena, hler sclerophylioides and Lithocarpus
dasystachus gradually increases in total number of species and tree diameters towards the
margins. Here grows the mixed swamp forest characterized by trees like Gonystylus
bancanus, Diospyros pseudomalabanca, Koompassia mnalaccensis, Mezzetia leptopoda and
Parastremon urophyllum. In the middle storey Blumeodendron *okbrai is abundant.
Today about 357,000 ha (RePPProT, 1987) of heavily degraded peatswamp forest is left
in the project area, including the area between the sea in the west and south, the line
Pontianak - Ambawang river and the artificial boundary about 15 km east of the Sei
Radak scheme. See the appended Land Use/Forcst Status map (Map 4B) for more details
about the remaining forested areas.
45



T1 *
Second draft pnnied I November 1P2
Table 6:       Characteristic tree speeies of (peat)swamp forests of Sungai Durian and
Sungai Rasau, West Calimantan. (Somme: Andeom. 1975)
Alangium haWninidii           Hotsfiridia crass(folia
Alscadaphnc coriacca          I1ct hypogIaula
Ardisia copelandil            1lex sclerophylloides
Austrobuzus nitida            Knema intenredla
Baccauren brnacieaa          Koompossvia nualacrnsis
Bhesa panicudwa              Lirhocwrpus andeironil
Blumeodeudron hzff           Lirhocarpus dasysiadcy
Bsuimeodendron gokbrai       LiUs4a crassJoUia
Calophyliln canum            Litsea gradlipes
Calophylwn rersauwn          Ltsa nidularis
Campnospermna coriaca        Litsea resinosa
Campnosperma squawum         Litu= turfosa
Catuhium didymum             Mangifera havilandli
Combreocarpus rotuidatus    Mcetia leptopoda
Cnudia sp.                   Naudea parva
Crypocarya enervis           Nesconechinia kingii
COenolophon patWfolius       Nepheliwm maingayi
Cywhocab1 biowulalt          Palaquiwn cochleariffolium
DaeryLkodus stenosradoiy     Palaquizu  pseudorotowum
Dlienia pudchlUa             Palaquim ridleyi
Diosphyros naingayl          Pandanus atrocarpus
Diospyros evena              Parasuanmn spicatsur
Diospyros pseudomnalabarica  Paranemon urophyllun
Diospyrosuiamang             Parbka singularis
Dnio carinatus               Payena kerii
Dyera lowii                  Phoebe opaca
Eluecaspus marginasus        Pithece&lobium botnese
Ebeocwpus mIasSefSi          Pla seulxsa
Eugenia eliprilinba          Pobalthia hpe1kuca
Eugenia hevihndii            Polyalhia nmphii
Eugenia incarnata            Pomesia pinrasa
Eugenia kucayllumn           Sandria rubiginosa
Eugenia pakmbanica           Shorea p    haca
Eugenia paludosa             Shorea Wjymanniaow
Eugenia poltaynha            Shorea uliginasa
Eugenia puncaiculata         Stemonurns scorpio
Fragraca aceninat,           SWanonMurs secund;f1ors
Gazua coriacea               Sierculia rhoidifolia
Gamua mnoleyana              Tecractomia holrnumii
Garcina opeanto              Tetramenissa glabra
Garcnin cuneifolin           Tristanin grandifo!ia
Garcinia crspidata           Tristania maingayi
Garcinian microcarpa         Trissanan ebobwa
Garcinia niquelii            Xanthophyllum amoenm
Garmnia peLangiana           Xrospermum murica
Garcinia wdua                Xylopia coriEfolia
Gowphaadra sp.               Gonysylas bancus
46
4-. 
r 



Second drmt; printed I Nowember 1992
Off-site, the remaining forests have been further degraded over the last few years by the
many people searching for off-farm income or new agricultural lands. Sawmills have
been, or still are in operation. TransmigranLs and local people have consequently logged
the remaining larger trees. The logs are often sold to sawmills or wood traders along the
major rivers in the area. This type of logging still occurs in all remaining forest reserves
off-site, with particular activity observed around Ambawaig Mvfountains, which harbours
the least exploitcd wood resources.
Logs extracted belong to species like Jelutung (Dryera lowil), Meranti Bunga (Shorea
reysmanniana), Madang and Meranti Batu (Shorca sp.). However, diameters are small
and people have to enter the forests deeper and deeper to get any marketble wood.
The appended Land Use/Forest Status map (4B) depicts areas recently opened for
agriculture or degraded to shrub vegetation. Large areas around the Terentang and
Kapuas rivers show these developments. TransmigranL fanners from the Arus Deras
scheme have been found farming on recently cleared land around the Ambawang
Mountains, to compensate for bad agricultural land at the scheme itself. Clearly this
development will eventually lead to the complete conversion of forest resources remaining
today.
Large tracts of exploited forests are now devoid of any large diameter trees. The
remaining tall trees are dying because of the yearly forest and sub-soil fires. The lower
canopy is dominated by dense stands of Macaranga, which is a pioneer tree. Differences
in exploitation levels are also expressed in the occurrence of wildlife, which will be
discussed under 5.3.3.
52.5 Agricultural Land
Not surprisinly, land modified for agriculture dominates the landscape on most of the
schemes. Four stages of development are recognisable:
Cropped Fields and Plantations: The dominant crops grown on the schemes
include Rice, Soy Bean, Peanut, Maize, Pineapple, Banana, Cassava, Coconut and
Rubber. Planting densities are often very thin, with a high amount (up to 40%
coverage) of weeds competing with the actual crop.
Degraded Burned PeWtland: Repeated burning of peatiand (former peatswamp
forest) results in a very dense monotonous vegetation dominated by fcms. Main
species are Srenochlaena palustris, Pieridium caudarum, Dicranoperis linearis,
Lygodium flexwosum, and Nephrolepsis biscrrata. Other plants typically found at
open  sites are the sedge Scieria swnmresis and  the shrub  Melastoma
,malabahricuwn. Biodiversity is low at these sites and forest regeneration is
_* ;-.L;  n',;>   hampered by the yearly fires which support te very dense fern vegetation. This
t    .                                       47
-    .'    ..



~'-                                                fS. second draft; pnied I November 1992
*,   -          type of secondary growth is particular dominant on the schemes east of Arus
*   it.        Deras.
Deeraded Alluvial Land: Loamy to silty-clay soils occur on all schemes, often
with PASS layers (Pyritic). These lands are considered more suitable for
agricultural production if the hydrology is properly managed to avoid excessive
formation of acid soils and toxic levels of Manganese (Mn), Aluminium (Al), and
Iron (Fc). However some schemes, like Rasau Jaya 11 and III and thosc schemcs
around Kakap (P2DR) show PASS soils with a secondary vegetation dominated by
-Alang-alang (Imperata cylindrica) and sedges like Scirpus grossus and Elcocharis
dulcis.
Secondary Shrub Vegetation: The third type of degraded land on the schemes is a
dense shrub vegetation, often mixed with remaining trees from the original
peatswamp forest. Degraded land is often located at the margins of the schemes
merging into the 'pen, logged-over peatswamp forest. Dominating are the stands
of Macaranga trees, up to 10 m height and an undergrowth of Scieria swnazrensis
and the fern S:enochlaena palus ris.
This secondary vegetation is also the habitat where Wild and Bearded Pig like to
hide or even have their young (nests). From these shelters they operate at night
and constitute the pest problem as reported by the local people.
Project schemes in all areas are located along the major waterways and stretch
considerably inland. Both alluvial soils, irciuding the Potential Acid Sulphate Soils
(PASS) as well as peat soils are found on the sites.
Before establishment as transmigrant sites, most of the schemes had been cleared of forest
vegetation and primary, secondary and tertiary drainage canals were dug. Depending on
available manpower and physical conditions of the government provided land (LU I and
LU 2) transmigrants prepared their land for agriculture. For seveaal reasons however
people have been unsuccessful to fully utilize this land as planned.
Transmigrants as well as the local people cleared the remaining vegetation by cutting and
especially by burning in order to make the land suitable for planting rain-fed rice, maize,
cassava or coconut trees. Crop production was reported to be good for the first one to
two years because burning the natural vegetation (including topsoil) provided the
necessary plant nutricnts. Burning is also considcred an aid in deereasing the thickness of
the peat topsoil. However, after about two years soil fertility drops sharply because only
pure peat is remaining. It was also reported by the transmigrants, as well observed in the
field, that repeated burning can result in the removal of up to two meters of peat. This
exposes the next soil layer which includes pure silicate sands as well as PASS soils. The
gradual changes in soil characteristics as well as the e,xisting problems of seasonal
flooding on the schemes forces many farmers to abandon these 'problem' lands.
48
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



to.-
Sacond dnmft prinied I November 992
Large areas of these 'agricultural' lands are consequently left fallow. It is estimated that
between 30%  and 40%  of the total area of the schemes now consists of degraded
unproductive land.
5.3 FAUNA
Table 7 shows a summary of animal species observed, or reliably reported, during three
weeks of field work in each of the project areas. Appendix 3 gives a complete list of the
236 species, together with details on their status and utilization.
The absolute numbers reflect different specific expertise of team members and totals are
not directly comparable. Fish and reptiles are highlighted in Riau and West Kalimantan;
birds in Riau and Jambi. Morcover, the lists are a very brief snap-shots of the situation,
and do not include records accumulated over time or from museums. The Riau list is
probably most representative.
Nevertheless, proportions of significant species are reasonably comparable. Overall, more
than one-quarter of the species observed is somehow significant, and one-fifth of the
species is protected under Indonesia Law. Only three Endangered species occur in or near
the schemes: False Gavial, Estuarine Crocodile and Sumatran Tiger.
Table 7:     Summary of observed or reliably reported animal species in or near ISDP
schemes, August-September 1992, and their status. Significant species are
species that are Protected under prevailing Indonesian Law, listed in
Appendix I or 11 of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered.
Species of Flora and Fauna, or registered in the IUCN Red Data Book as
Endangered, Vulnerable, Indeterminate or Unknown.
(Seute: AWl field dat)
RIAU              JAMBI           KALIMANTAN             TOTAL
Total sigar  z     Tolal Sif   *      Total Sigaf  %     Total Sigar  %
Fishes ihL   32    2   6%      14    1  7%        31    2   6%       55    3    5%
Amphibians  5    0   0%         I   0   0%         2    0   0%        5    0    0%
Reptiles    31    6  19%        6    2  33%       10    4  40%       31    6   195C
Birds      99   28  28%       109  26  24%        32   10  31%      156   39   25%
*  amrnnls   35   15  43%      17  10 59%         28   10  36%       46   18   39%
All 202   54  275%     147  39  27%      103   26  2551      236   66   28%
Protected 34    -  175%     28    -  19%       16    -  16%        47    -   20%
Endangered  3    -   1%         1   -   1i        2    -   2%         3    -    1%
;-5.3.1  Rian
*  i .);                                        49
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3M        -                                              '



If
L1S Scond daft. pnted I No"mber 1992
The Siak region has been surveyed previously for it's terrestrial fauna, although these
surveys were brief and mainly concerned with birds, larger mammals, and vegetation.
Giesen & van Balen (199la) recorded a total of five reptile, ninety bird and ten mammal
species during a brief survey of the Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve, only nine kilometres
from the westbrn boundary of the Siak Kecil transmigration scheme. Other surveys of
Padang Island, at the mouth of the Siak River have been conducted by Giesen & van
Balen (1991b) and Purwoko & Verheugt (1989). These surveys concentrated on
ve:S ation descriptions, and inventorics of birds and larger mammal specics.
Very little fauna survey work has been undertaken in the Indragiri area although Giesen
(1991b) surveyed Bakung Island, near the mouth of the Indragiri. A great deal of
additional data on the region comes from surveys of the Berbak National Park, to the
south in Jambi Province. Since this area is also largely peatswamp habitat, it is likely that
many of the species recorded from the park also occur in the Indragiri and Siak areas.
During the course of a field visit by AWB staff in August-September 1991, a total of
thirty-two fish, five frog, thirty-one reptile, ninety-nine bird and thirty-two mammal
species were recorded on or near the transmigration sites (Appendix 3).
Eishes
Thirty-two species of fish were observed or reported from the Riau schemes. A number
of species occur in the irrigation canals on the schenes. Common species occurring in the
canals include Three-spot Gouramy (Trichogaster trichoprerus), Striped Snakehead
(Channa strixa), Common Walking Catfish (Carais batrachus), Climbing Perch (Anabas
testudineus) and Swamp Eel (Monoprerus albus). Most of these species are well adapted
to tolerate poor environmental conditions, such as low dissolved oxygen and high
turbidity, such as occurs in the canals.
A number of fish species typically occur in the blackwater rivers. All of the species that
occur in the canals are also in the adjacent blackwater rivers, since this is the source of
colonisation. In addition, Asian Bonytongue (Sckropages fo7nosus), Bagrid Catfish
(Mysrus neminus; Kryptoprerus spp.) Giant Snakehead (Channa micropektes) and Forest
Snakehead (Channa pieurophthabrus) are found mainly in the blackwater streams.
In the laryer rivers, a number of brackish water and pure freshwater species occur, even
in areas where there is no salt intrusion. These species include Patin (Pangasius spp.),
Catfish (Mysmus spp.) and Glass Perch (Chandidae). Mudskippers (Periopihalmus spp.)
were abundant along the banks of the nmrjor rivers, and frequently entered canals on the
schemes.
There are no 'troduced species of fish occurring in the off-site areas of the Riau
schemes. Four species, Snakeskin Gouramy (Trichogasuer pectoralis), Giant Gouramy
(Osphronemus goramy), Common Tilapia (Oreochromis mossambica) and Nile Tilapia
(Oreochromis ,uilotca) are grown for aquacultural purposes in the Indragiri schemes. This
is not curently operating on a large scale.
s0



Second dmR; pnnted I November 1992
Freshwater Prawns (Macrobracl'iumn rosenbergit) are common in most canals. In the tidal
areas, small crabs make burrows the canal walls.
Reotiles and Amphibians
Frogs commonly occur in the man-made drainage canals of the Riau sites. The
commoncst species were Rana erythaea and Rana limnoc/laris. In the morc forested
areas, tree frogs (Rhacophorus spp.) could be heard callin,.
-Turtles were commonly reporled as occurring in the primary and secondary canals of the
schemes. The most widely occurring species is probably Bellia crassicollis, which was
observed at Kuala Cinaku I. However, other freshwater turtles are likely to occur on the
schemes and some instances of Soft Shelled Turtles (Family Trionychidae) living in the
canals were reported. These turtles are quite large, and would be unlikely to spend much
time in the smaller canals. The Malayan Giant Turtle (Orliria borneensis) was reported as
occurring in the larger rivers at many sites. The survey team observed a specimen in the
Siak Kecil River.
Two species of crocodile occur near the transmigration sites. The Estuarine Crocodile
(Crocodylus porosus) occurs along the Siak Besar River, in the navigation canal and in
the lower Siak Kecil. It is reported to only enter the latter two locations late in the dry
season when the water is more brackish. Although reported to be uncommon in the Siak
area, crocodiles were nevertheless seen by most people, particularly in the Siak Besar. In
1992, two Estuarine Crocodiles had entered the Siak Kiri scheme (Block B) via a
secondary canal and were trapped there after the flap gate had been closed. Although
Estuarine Crocodiles were reported from the Indragiri River, they are now considered
very rare in this area.
The main occurrence of the False Gavial (Tomistoma schlegeli:) is in the Siak Kecil
River, although it was reported to occur also in the Buantan River (Siak Kiri) and Cinaku
River (Kuala Cinaku I). Mackinnon (1992) reports the Siak Kecil lakes to be a stronghold
for this species, but people interviewed in this area claimed the species to be rare there,
an impression also reported by Giesen & van Balen (199la). In the middle reaches of the
Siak Kecil River (near the transmigrant settlements) the species was frequently reported
and the survey team saw one specimer. near the junction with the navigation canal. One
False Gavial was reporLed to have been dug up by an excavator while clearing a canal
near the Buantan River.
A variety of lizards and snakes occur on the schemes. Common species include the Sun
Skink (Mabuia mulifasciasa), Common House Gecko (Hemidactylus frenasus), Asian
Water Monitor (Varanus salvaror), Reticulated Python (Python reiicularus), Black Spitting
Cobra (Naja naja) and Banded Krait (Bungarusfasciarus). Javan File Snake (Acrochordus
javnicus) was reported to occur in some canals on the schemes.
51



Secand draRl pnhecd I November 1992
Ninety nine bird species were recorded on or near the sites during the field survey. Birds
such as White-headed Munia (Lonchura maja), White-bellied Munia (Lonchura
leucogastra), Chestnut Munia (Lonchura malacca), Scaly-breasted Munia (Lonchura
punctulara) and Baya Weaver (Ploccus philippinus) were commonly seen on the sites, and
are regarded as pests. Some waterbirds occur along the canals within the schemes,
including Cinnamon Bittern (lrobrychus cinnamomeus), Lesser Adjutant (Lepropfilus
javanicus) a-id White-breasted Waterhen (A,nourornis phoenicurus).
Forest-dwelling birds are abundant in the uncleared areas bordering the blocks. These
included Pink-necked Pigeon (Treron vernons), Plaintive Cuckoo (Cacomanris merulinus)
and Common Dollarbird (Eurysomus orienmahis) and six species of Hombill, all recorded
from the schemes.
Mammals
Of the larger mammals, the most obvious group is the monkeys. Three species of monkey
were recorded from the Riau sites, Silvered Leaf-monkey (Trachypithecus cristala), Long-
tailed Macaque (Macaca fascicularis) and Pig-tailed Macaque (Macaca nemestrina).
Silvered leaf-monkeys were particularly abundant in uncleared areas of the sites and in
tall riverine vegetation. The two Macaque species were also common and were reported
to frequently raid fruit crops on the sites.
Agile Gibbons (Hylobarcs agilis) were reasonably common in some areas of uncleared
forest on the schemes. These were often heard calling from the edge of the forest adjacent
to the fields.
Two pig species, the Wild Pig (Sus scrofa) and the Bearded Pig (Sus barbarus) occur in
adjacent forest and scrub, and frequently in uncleared scrubland within the schemes. The
Wild Pig is the more common species.
Other large mammals which occur on or near the schemes include Malayan Sunbear
(Helarcaos malayaius), the Endangered (RDB) Sumatrn Tiger (Panrhera tigris), Clouded
Leopard (Neofelis nebulosa) and Sambar Deer (Cervus unicolor). Two other large
species, Asian Elephant (Elephas rnaimus) and Tapir (Tapirus indicus) are known to
occur in the region. However, these have not been seen in the vicinity of the
-      transmigration sites for many years and the habitats in the areas surveyed are generally
unsuitable for them.
-- 
The smaller mammals in the area include squirrels, such as Low's Squirrel (Sundasciurus
- Iowi), Red Flying Squirrel (Petaurisga petaurissa) and Prevost's Squirrel (Cafiosciurus
prevosti). Rats are numerous on the schemes. The most abundant species is Ricefield Rat
(Pauus argenfivfbor), although other species including Black Rat (Rwus ranus) and
**>. Polynesia Rat (Rsafus crwul) are also pstset.
52



Second drolt: prnnAsd I Novinmbur 1992
Several species of introduced. or domesticated species live on the schemes, such as doggs,
cats, water buffalo, goat anid cattle. The Black Rat appears to be the only introduced
species which has wild populations.
5.3.2 Jambi
There arc no wildlife reports dealing specifically with the ISDP schcmes in Jambi, prior
to clearing and settlement. Existing reports address areas near the project sites, such as
the Berbak National Park,the Hutan Bakau Pan:ai 7Timur Strict Nature Reserve and the
Southern Sumatra Coast between South Sumatra and Riau Provinces. One can find
complete descriptions of wildlife of Berbak National Parks in Silvius et. a!. (1984 and
1986), Wulf ei. al. (1981), Rusila (1991) and HIMBIO (1992) and of the Hutan Bakcau
Panaai Timur Reserve, in Giesen (1992). At the moment at least 286 bird species (Rusila,
1992), 38 mammal species (Silvius, et. aL, 1984) and 93 fish species have been identiried
in the Berbak National Park. In Hut an Bakau Panral Timur Strict Nature Reserve, Giesen
recorded at least 27 bird species plus and unspecified number of undetermined wader
species. Other species identified there by Giescn: Reptiles: Varanus spp. Python
reticu!atus, Boiga dendrophila and T-imeresurus sumatranus; Mammalia: Sus scrofa,
Macacafascicularis, Presbytis cristata, and Helarctos mzalayanus.
The AWB team recorded, during a three-week field visit in August - September 1992, a
total of 14 fish, 1, possibly 3 frog, 6, possibly II reptile, 17 possibly 21 mammal and
*         ~~~109 bird species on or near the ISDP - Jambi schemes.
Zq~~F Sh
Fourteen species of fish were recorded from Jambi ISDP sites, most of them were found
in irrigation canals. Most of these species are found at and are well adapted to acid
condition (pH <5.0 and down to 3.5), e.g., Osteochilus schlegeli. 0. hassetiti, Mystus
planiceps, M. nemiurus, Belodonmichihys dinemia, Henurhamiphodon cf. phalosoma and
Rasbora vail/antd. The last species is the commonest observed. Only one species found in
neutral water pH = 6.5)
4M 1amm.'
Seventeen (twenty-two including domesticated species) species of mammals were recorded
on or near Jambi schemes, including species reliably reported to the AWB team. Three
species of monkeys, Silvered Leaf Monkey Trachypithecus csrisata, Long-tailed Macaque
Macaca fascicularis, and Pig-tailed Macaque Macaca nemestrina are commonly observed
and/or reported wild mammals by transmigrants. The species are kniown to raid crops and
can become a nuisance occasionally. The largest group observed by the AWB comprised
15 (mainly immature) Silvered Leaf Monkeys in ripairian forest near Muara Sabak.
Trained Pig-tailed Macaques are emplyed to pick coconutL Siamang Symphalangus
syndacrylus were often heard calling the peatswamp forests behind the Dendang schemes.
Westemn Bearded Pig Sus barbawu and Wild Pig Sus scrofa were reported to be common
on the Dendang schemnes, and can become a pest the-_.
53



N g
Second draft; printad I November 1992
Among the carnivores, three species are also reported to occur in and near the schemes,
namely Malayan Sunbear Helarc:os malayanus, Sumatran Tiger Panthera tignis, and
Leopard Cat Felis bengalensis. Malayan Sunbear reportedly often roams the settlements to
look for young Coconut trees and sometimes young Jack Fruit Arthocarpus heterophyllus.
A fresh pug mark of the Sumatran Tiger among pig foot prints was found in Dendang 1,
ca. 25 metres from the nearest house and ca. 1.5 Kilometres distance from the nearest
primary forest. Leopard Cat is mainly reported by transmigrants in Simpang Puding (in
February or March 1992, four immaturc cats wcre hunted by transmigran:s' dogs in the
remaining forest ncar Desa Simpang) and Dcndang 1I.
Birds
Compared to the other two project areas, Jambi seems to have a somewhat higher bird
species richness. A total of 109 bird species were recorded on r r near the schemes, a
respectable number considering the short period. At least twenty-Lwo waterbird species
observed in or near human settIement, including the Vulnerable Milky Stork Mycieria
cinerea and Lesser Adjutant Leprop:ilosjavanicus. A flock of forty rare Asian Dowitcher
Lirnnodromus semipalmarus were also found in the estuary of the Simbur Naik river. At
least nine forest specialist species were still found in the remaining forest, especially in
Lagan HulutSimpang Pandan schemes (most notably Block A), including Bushy-crested
Homnbill Annorhinus gaUleritus, Asian Pied Hombill Anthracoceros albirostris, Rhinoceros
Hornbill Buceros rhinoceros, Yellow-crowned Barbet Megalaima henricii, and White-
bellied Woodpecker Dryocopusjavensis.
All Munia species known from Sumatra were observed in the scheme, namely White-
rumped Munia Lonchura striara, Javan Munia Lonchura leucogastroides, Scaly-breasted
Munia Lonchura puncdulara, White-bellied Munia Lonchura leucogastra, Chestnut Munia
Lonchura maracca, and White-headed Munia Lonchura maja.
In regard of predator birds, 6 species were observed in the riverine systems or in
cultivation, including a large, single flock of at least 45 Black-winged Kites Elanus
caerulcus in Lagan Hulu and 40 BTahminy Kites Haliastur indus in mangrove forest along
the Berbak river estuary. White-bellied Sea-eagle Haliaceus leucogaster, Grey-headed
Fish-eagle Ichryophaga ichryacus, Crested Serpent Eagic Spilornis cheela, and Black
Eagle lcrinaetus malayensis were also seen solitary especially at the periphery of the
forests. The occurrence of these predator birds could mean that the ecosystem is still
going well and the utilisation of pesticides has still no significant impact on the fauna on
and around the schemes. Frequent observations of Kingfishers points in the same
direction.
5.3.3 West Kalimantan
The ISDP project region has a longer history of habitat conversion and degradation than
the two sites in Jambi and Riau. This is expressed in the type and extend of present day
wildlife habitat, and the animal species recorded during the EIA field work
54



Second daft. prinied I Novenber 1992
ReDtiles and Amphibians
At least 19 frog and toad species occur in the lowlands of West Kalimantan, but only the
commonest species like Rona erylhraea and Rana limnocharis were recorded foF the
cultivated land on the schemes.
Soft-shelled Turtle (Trionyx canilagineus) was several times recorded mainly occurring in
natural rivcrs, but numbers have dropped through the years. Threc speciCs of nonitor
lizards livc in West Kalimantan. Numbers were recorded to be low including those for the
most common one Varanus salvaior. No confirmed records could be obtained for the
Estuarine Crocodile (Crocodylus porosus) and False Gavial (Tomistoma schlegeli), but
the tidal swamps (108.000 ha) at Selat Padang Tikar south-east of Kubu provide suitable
habitat for Estuarine Crocodile. Due to hunting and habitaL disturbance crocodiles are
considered to be extinct in the mangrove/nypah swamps in the estuary of the Punggur
Besar River. False Gavial was reported to have disappeared from the Ambawang and
Sungai Putih rivers south of Gunung Ambawang.
Surprisingly, snakes were reported to be rare on the schemes including the Reticulated
Python (Python reticulatus). Hunting pressure for their skin could be the cause for this.
Typical mangrove snakes, Boiga dendrophila and the Wagier's Pit Viper (Trtimeresurus
waglenr were found in the forests in the eastern sub-project area. More detailed surveys,
in particular in the degraded peatswamp forests will reveal more species.
Birds
At least 256 bird species occur in West Kalimantan, but this province is not known to be
particular rich in waterbird and wader species.
Thirty-two bird species were observed in and around the tidal mangroves, with a large
population of Lesser Adjutant (Leproptilos javanicus) in the mangroves on Laut Island.
Wandering Whistling Duck (Dendrocygna arcuaa), a resident bird, occurs in large
groups of up to 150 birds. Local Dayak people reported a steady decline and even
disappearance of certain bird species, related to the large scale conversions of peatswamp
forests for agriculture. Of the seven Hornbill species living in West Kalimantan only two,
the Rhinoceros Hornbill (Buceros rhinoceros) and White-crested Hornbill (Berenicornis
comatus) were recorded for the degraded peatswamp forests.
Ricebirds were reported to be a pest on some sites, with records of Chestnut Munia
(Lonchfura mnalacco) as most common.
Mammals
Interviews with local and transmigrant people and direct field observations shortlisted a
relative small group of mammals still occurring near the schemes.
55



Sccond druft; pnted I Novcmber 1992
A total of twenty-seven mammal species was recorded during this survey. Of these
monkeys, like Proboscis Monkey (Nasalis lrava:us), Long-tailed Macaque (Mocaca
fascicularis) and Silvered Leaf-monkey (Trachypithecus crisraoa) were most conspicuous.
Local people reported two additional species, Pig-tailed Macaque (Macoca nemestrina)
and Red or Banded Leaf-monkey (Presbyris) to live in the remains of the peatswamp
forests surrounding the schemes. Proboscis Monkey was abundant in the riverine forests
with Ficus microcarpa, Heritiera lirtoralis and Gluta velu,ina, but was not observed on
those sites dcgraded. The impression was givcii that suitable habitat for monkey species is
deciiing, resulting in isolated forest remains. The Orang Utang (Pongo pygmnaeis) docs
not occur in the project area.
Two pig species, the Wild Pig (Sus scrofa) and the Bearded Pig (Sus barbatus) occur in
the eastem sub-project schemes (P3S) in adjacent forest and scrub. No pig pest problems
were recorded for the schemes around Kakap (P2DR). Sambar Deer (Cervus uinicolor)
was often recorded for the same locations and habitat as Wild Pig, but in low numbers
left. Bornean Yellow Muntjak (Munfiacus aiherodes) has occurred on all schemes of the
eastem sub-project area but is now only found on some locations like the hill forests of
Ambawang Mountains and the logged-over forests between Rasau Jaya I and Sci Bulan.
Different from the Riau and Jambi schemes Polynesian Rat (Raulus &ulans) or Malaysian
Wood Rat (Ratnus iion:anicus) are a pest in coconut and rice fields.
Frequent records were made of the Small-clawed Otter (Aontr cinerea) which lives
around the canals, rivers and fishponds on the schemes.
In general wildlife is rare on the ISDP schemes,in particular for the coastal sites around
Kakap, which is directly Telated to the age or occupation and few remains of 'forest'
wildlife habitat. In the eastern sub-project area adjacent forest remains and riverine
vegetation are the last strongholds for most of the species recorded.
5.4   SIGNIFICANT SPECIES
a.4.1  Status or Animal and Plant Species
In classifying the status of species, three reference systems have been used:
o     Species that appear in the Red Data Bookl .(UCN, 1990) under -the
following classifications: E (Endangered); V (Vulnerable); R (Rare); I
(Indelerminate) and K (Insufficiently Known);
o     species that arc listed by CITES (Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species) in the CITES Appendices I and 11 (Favre, 1989). It
should be noted that the CITES agreement mainly deals with the regulation
of trade in wildlife, and that some species listed, particularly those in
Appendix ll, are not necessarily rare or endangered at present; and
56



--7.
Second drna; pnnlied I Noven,ber 1992
o     species that are Protected under Indonesian law.
Riau schemes
A total of 28 bird, 15 mammal, 6 reptile and two fish species recorded from the Riau
project areas fall under one or more of the above categories (Table 7 and Appendix 3).
None of the bird species recorded are in the highest category of Endangered, however
Whitc-wingcd Wood Duck, Milky Stork and Lcsser Adjutant are listed as Vuilerable.
The White-winged Wood Duck, which is also listed as an CITES Appendix 1 species, is
the most threatened bird species occurring on the sites. This species was recorded only in
the Kuala Cinaku I area of the Indragiri sub-project. The species was not directly
observed by the survey team, but very accurate descriptions of the species appearance and
habits were obtained from witnesses who were assessed to be very reliable. These
witnesses also picked this species out from a bird identification book without prompting.
The most significant mammal species occurring in the areas is the Sumatran Tiger, which
is Endangered. This species was reported from many schemes where there was uncleared
LU2 land backing on to forest. Most recent reports of Tigers came from the Kuala
Cinaku area in Indragiri, and in the western parts of Siak Kifi. The Clouded Leopard
(RDB - Vulnerable) was reported to be not uncommon in the Siak area. Other species of
note include the Malayan Sunbear and Agile Gibbon, both of which are quite common in
some forests adjacent to the schemes.
Significant reptiles recorded include the Estuarine Crocodile and False Gavial, both of
which are Endangered. Crocodiles occur along the Siak Besar River in Siak, and along
the Indragiri River, where they are reported to be rare. The main areas for False Gavials
are along the Siak Kecil River (Siak). and the upper Cinaku River (Indragiri).
The Asian Bonytongue is an CITES Appendix I listed fish species which occurs in the
area. The main habitat for this species is in the Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve, but it is also
reported to occur all along the Siak Kecil River in the vicinity of the schemes.
Jambi schemes
Significant species in the jambi projec: area include I fish, 2 reptiles, 26 birds and 10
mammals. Only one species is listed as Endangered, namely Sumatran Tiger. This species
was reported from at least 4 sites, but the AWB team observed only one puo mark.
Two bird species, Milky Stork Mycieria cinerea and Lesser Adjutant Lep'opti/ius
javanicus are listed as Vulnerable. The first species was found locally in the estuary of
Simnbur Naik and along the coast near Berbak River estuary, and even on the Pamusiran
and Dendang II schemes. The South East coast of Sumatra is known to accommodate
more than 90% of world population of Milky Storks (Silvius, 1987).
...1~. *5
', 4
@   k                              ~~~~~~~~~~57



Second dralf pnted I November 1992
Asian  Dowitcher Limnodromus  semipalmaius  and  Wrinkled  Hornbill Rhyticeros
corrugatus are the only birds listed as rare. The Dowitcher was found once during the
field visit in the Simbur Naik estuary. Silvius e.al (1984) observed a total of 1,460 Asian
flowitcher in the same place and claimed it to be the largest single flock ever recorded of
this species. So far, this Dowitcher has been reported from Indonesia only four times.
West Kalimantan schemes
Far fewer species in West Kalinantan fall under these classifications than for the Riau
and Jambi project locations, totalling 5 reptile, 5 bird, 13 mammal and I fish species.
The most significant reptile species is the Estuarine Crocodile (Crocodylus porosus) which
is Endangered. This species is expeCted to be found in the extensive mangrove/Nypah.
swamps of Selat Padang Tikar.
The Proboscis Monkey (Nasalis larvatus) is endemic to Borneo and is considered
Vulnerable and listed at Appendix 1. Because of declining populations Indonesia gave
protected status to this species. Some populations still occur around the schemes, mainly
in the riverine forests of the larger rivers. However, suitable habitat is under pressure
because of land clearing and degradation. Other species traded and included in Appendix
II, like Pig-tailed Macaque and Silvered Leaf-monkey also depend on the remaining forest
areas close to the schemes for survival.
The Asian Bonytongue, which exhibits three colour varieties locally (including the sought
after 'Red Arowana"), is becoming scarce in the area.
5.4.2 Pest Species
Agricultural pests are not a problem that is unique to the transmigrant schemes. Indeed,
agricultural pests are a problem faced by all farmers in the world. Most farmers on the
ISDP schemes stated that even the worst pest species are (usually by far) secondary to
flooding problems (unless no flooding occurred of course). Very often they stated that
they are perfectly capable of handling the problem, provided more people and more social
coherence.
A number of wildlife species occurring on the schemes are regarded as agricultural pests
and thus, these species are often the target for hunting or poisoning activities.
The commonest rice crop pest species citcd were birds of the finch family, particLilarly
White-headed Munia, White-bellied Munia, Scaly-breasted Munia and the Baya Weaver.
At one location in Indragiri, the White-winged Wood Duck was reported to be a pest to
rice. This species (which is a Vulnerable species) systematically pulls out the newly
planted padi. Similarly, the Purple Swanmphen seems to cause troubles in Simpang Puding
(Jambi). Although Ducks and Swamphens visit the crops in small numbers (1-5
individuals), they can do a lot of damage. Note that we do not know other instances of
these two species causing trouble in Indonesia.
58
- .  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I.
Second draft. pnMtd I November 1992
Most pest species reported were mammals. Of these, the Wild Pig was reported as the
most destructive. The Western Bearded Pig also occurs in most areas, but this species is
not regarded as a serious pest. In West Kalimantan, Wild Pigs are not a problem on all
sites of the western sub-project area, but is on Rasau Jaya 1, Arus Deras; Pinang Luar,
Sei Bulan, Jangkang, Sei Radak, Pinang Dalam, Air Putih, Olak-Olak Kubu in the eastern
sub-project area.
Pig pcst problcms arc dircctly rclatcd to thc occurrenic of sccondary shnib vegetation on-
site and forest remains close to the schemes. Crops most impacted are maize, tuber crops
like cassava, young coconut, peanut, soybean and pineapple.
Rats, particularly the Ricefiedd Rat, are seasonal pests of rice. The Black Rat reportedly
can be a pest as it attacks goods and harvested crops in storage. Farmers in the West
Kalimantan schemes, reported seasonal raids on coconut by the Polynesian Rat (Rattus
exulans) or Malaysian Wood Rat (Rattus riomanicus) but rats were considered a pest of
less importance (impact) than those by Wild Pig (Sus scrofa).
Monkeys are often regarded as pests, as they raid fruit and vegetable crops in location
near the forest. The main pest species is the Pig-tailed Macaque, but Long-tailed
Macaques are also responsible for damage.
The Malayan Sunbear is regarded as a pest in areas where coconuts are grown. The bears
cause damage by eating the crown of the young coconut, thus killing the plant. This
species only occurs on the Sumatran schemes-
In areas where aquaculture is practised in the Indragiri schemes, the Common Otter is a
serious pest, because they catch fish from the ponds at night.
In West Kalimantan, the Small-clawed Otter (Aonyx cinerca) was often recorded in large
groups, stealing most fish out of the freshwater fishponds of transmigrants. It further
occurs along the many natural and man-;nade waterways.
Large cats, such as Sumatran Tiger and Clouded Leopard are occasionally involved in
taking chickens or goats from the villages, but they are generally not regarded as pests
because the incidence of this happening is generally low.
-..u5*.              ~5
.~~~~~~~~~5



Second draft; pnnted I November 1992
6.0   EXISTING SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
6.1 REGIONAL LAND USE
Most of the schemes are located in areas which have been settled for many years, and
they are surrounded by a variety of outside interests and activities. The principle land
usages occurring around the schcmes arc:
o     agriculture, particularly rice and palawija crops, and plantation estates such
as coconuts, rubber and oil palm;
o     logging concession areas;
o     fishing, usually non-commercial;
o     mining, particularly oil exploration and drilling (mainly concentrated in the
Siak sub-project area).
o     large towns located along the rivers, which serve as trading ports;
o     industrial development (e.g., sawmills, brickworks, pulp and paper mills,
rubber factories, etc.)
-        o      conservation areas such as wildlife reserves and national parks.
Tourism in the areas is virtually non-existent as there is no support infrastructure, poor
access, and very few potential attractions. The histonic town of Siak Sriindrapura, near
the Siak schemes currently attracts small numbers of tourists who mainly come to see the
Palace, which houses a well-maintained historic museum.
*    Detailed Regional Land Use maps for each (sub-)project area are presented in the
appended Maps IB-4B.
6.1.1 Siak Sub-project Area
The Siak sub-project is located amidst a number of outsidc influences which are at present
having an impact on the local environment.
The Siak Kiri schenmcs are located along the Siak Besar River. This is an important
transport route linking the provincial capital, Pekanbaru, with major trading ports such as
Bengkalis, Batam Island and Singapore. Therefore, the river is subject to constant and
heavy taffic. Large ships, up to 1,000 tonnes regularly ply the river, as do a large
number of smaller vessels. The potential for environmental p6llution from  shipping
accidents, such as oil spills and loss of dangerous cago is very high, and may well have
e   OCcurred in the past. Also, wave action from passing ships has the potential to cause
.pD:.                                     60



4 . g:
Second draft; pnnwd I November 1992
serious erosion to unprotected river banks and damage to riverside structures such as
jetties. This process was very apparent during the field surveys.
Along the river between Siak Kiri and Pekanbaru, there are a number of factories
including plywood, rubber and palm oil manufacturers which are alleged to have
discharged waste products into the river. One of these, 2 pulp and paper mill about 60km
upstream of the project area has becn alleged to have dumped industrial waste into the
river which reportedly caused a fish kill (miscellaneous national newspapers, August-
October 1992).
Although there are no commercial fisheries operating in the vicinity of the project area,
local and non-local people utilise the area for fishing. Fishing activities are particularly
concentrated on the Siak Kecil River, where, according to local reports, fish stocks have
seriously declined in recent years. The widespread use of fish poisons (usually potash) in
the area has reportedly also decreased fish stocks. Commercial fisheries operate along the
coast near the schemes, and the city of Pekanbaru is a major port for the fishing industry
in Riau.
Most of the land surrounding the Siak sub-project area is covered by forest concession, in
fact, one concession has a base camp at the Siak Kecil scheme. Loggil,6 in the
surrounding peat swamp forests requires the laying of corduroy log mats through the
forest which are then overlaid with a rail system to gain access. Most of the forests in the
area are therefore in various stages of forest utilisation. An Environmental Impact
Assessment covering the Siak logging concessions is currently in progress.
The Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve is located along the Siak Kecil River. The eastern
boundary is about 9km (by river) from the Siak Kecil .schemes. This wildlife reserve has
been designated to protect a unique series of dystrophic lakes on deep peats, which drain
into the Siak Kecil River. The Reserve supports a variety of threatened wildlife species,
including Sumatran Tiger. Asian Elephant, Malayan Tapir, False Gavial and Asiuan
Bonytongue (Arowana) fish. Forests in the reserve arc generally in a degraded state, due
to previous logging, and there is evidence that illegal logging is still going on in the
reserve (Giesen & van Balen 1991). A number of brick factories arc located along the
Siak Kecil River near the mouth and these factories require a large amount of firewood,
some of which may be coming illegally from the reserve.
There is a great deal of oil exploration and drilling going on in the region. Caltex, which
is based in Rumbai, near Pek-anbaru has constructed an earthen road which passes through
parts of the schemes and is the main road link to Pel;2nbaru. This road is regularly
sprayed with oil for compaction. Caltex is currently conducting seismic tests on some of
the Siak schemes. Transmigrants generally had a good relationship with Caltex in the
area, saying that they paid good royalties for land. They were also happy that Caltex had
mailntained the roads and in one instance, had built a mosque for the local community.
6.1.2 Indragiri Sub-project Area
61
4:' . .___________________



Second draft; prnned I November 1992
The Indragiri schemes are located in a heavir. populated area. Almost the entire region to
the east, north-east and south-east of the schemes is agricultural land, while to the west,
agriculture development extends all along the Indragiri river. The river itself is subject to
heavy and constant traffic. Two major towns are located near the schemes, Rengat, to the
west, and Tembilahan to the east. The area is serviced by good asphalt roads which are
currently being upgraded.
Industrics along lhe river are dominated by sawmills, said mining and loo-ing base
camps. Therc is a great deal of fishing activity, although most is on a small scalc.
To the north of the river, lies a huge expanse of peat swamp forest, extending some 75km
to the Kampar Rivcr. Most of this area is covcred by logging concession. Within this
area, commencing about 20 km north west of the westemmost schemes lies the
Kerumutan Wildlife Reserve, Riau's largest conservation reserve. This reserve extends
northwards from the north side of the Indragiri River near Rengat to the Kampar River
and covers an area of 120,000 ha. Little data are available on the condition of this
reserve, as it is extremely inaccessible.
To the south of the schemes, there arc also large expanses of relatively undisturbed
swamp foresL, although these areas are continually being opened up for agriculture,
particularly oil palm plantation estates.
6.1.3 Jambi Project Area
The Batanghari and Berbak Rivers are large rivers navigable by sea vessels up to the
provincial capital and further. Upstream of the project area, untill the capital Jambi, there
are ten or eleven medium to large sawmills active. Huge barks are towed over the
Batanghnri and Berbak to suppply these mills of logs. Tankers ply the waters to provide
the province with petrol and oil.
Near the coast, on the banks of the two estuaries are the project area's two regional
centres: the small Nipah Panjang town in the east along the Berbak, and Muara Sabak
(after which one scheme has been named) in the west along the Batanghari. A minor
centre is located at 'pasar SK 17' in Rantau Rasau. The land on the 'deltaic island' is
largely cultivated, particularly with coconut. Littlc natural cover remains there, except for
a patch between Muara Sabak and Lambur, a stand between Pamusiran and the
Batangahri and along the coast and the lower reaches of the Lagan,- Batanhari, Simbur
Naik, Pamusiran, and Berbak Rivers (mangroves). These mangroves either have the status
of Strict Nature Reserve or are proposed as Protection Forest (RePPProT 1988).
The younger wesLern and and southern schemes (Simpang Pandan, Lagan Hulu, Dendang
I-Il), are 'pushed' into extensive stretches of peatswamp forests, often on a peat dome.
The forest south of the three Dendang schemes has been logged. The peatswamp forest
south and west of Simpang Pandan and Lagan Hulu seems not logged and still largely
undisturbed. All these peatswamp forests have the status of either Normal Production
Forest (most), Convertible Forest (some; a portion bordering on Lagan Hulu, another
62
.x 



Second dmaft:. printed I November 1912
portion on Dendang 11U) or is Unclassified Formst (somc; bordering on Simpang Pandan).
See also the appended Land Use/Forest Status for Jambi (Map 3B). These forests together
form a corridor connecting the Berbak National Park (and further east the proposed
Sembilang conservation area) with forests in Riau, (still) valuable for movements of large
wildlife (notably Tiger). All these forest are under logging concessions.
The land north of the Simpang PaLndan scheme, betwvccn the estuaries Of Lhe Batannhari,
-~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     0
Lagan and Mcndahama' Rivcrs, is also virtually completcly under Cultivation, again,
dominated by coconut.
There are two sawmills in the vicinity of the Dendang I scheme. The mills absorb
important numbers of workers from the Dendang schemes. We do not know where the
logs sawn in the mills originate, presumably from outside the region. Large barks were
seen unloading logs at the mills.
No mining or oil exploitation is reported from the project area, though it seems that
exploration has taken place several years ago.
6.1.4 West Kalimantan Project Area
There ame two plywood mills near Rasau Jaya 1I and many small sawmills scattered
through the area. These mills provide considerable employment opportunities both in
terms of direct employment and for supporting service-s such as providing poles for
making rafts for transporting loggs. However, resources of larger logs have run out in the
forests around and MOSL OF these are now extracted from far inland along the Kapuas
* Catch ment Area.
Settlers around Kubu are involved in the processing of charcoal from mang-rove logs
taken from the swamps of Padang Tikar. An important product extracted from these same
coastal swamps is Nypah thatch, which is sold at the local market. Some sites like Arus
Deras and Sei Bulan subsist mainly on their logging activities -and other schemes obtain
* additional income at a seasnal base or from remittances from family mecmbers working
outside the site. However, large scale logging operations (HPH) are now something, of the
past as all primary forests have been logged.
Many small scale rubber plantations managed by local people are found along, the river
banks in the area.
6.2 ]POPULATION AND DEMOGRAPHY
Population statistics were derived from the October 1990 census which was executed in
the 1990/91 planting season. According to these data the population of the ISDP areas
was 187,865 persons (96,779 males and 91,086 females) in 40,244 households.
3' This -hige- Meadaharm River shcould mAt be confied vA&ibhIe -mustl- &we of tbe umm mmo dthratun through Diock A of
Simpang Pada.. See dhere
63
a



Second droll; pnnucd I hNvcmber I992
The distribution of population and its composition by project area is shown in Table 2.2,
2.3 and 2.4 of the Technical Report No 10 (Socio-Economics).Within individual schemes,
local villages with a high proportion of non-Javanese population have larger household
sizes than transmigrant villages.
Tables 2.5, 2:6 and 2.7 of the Technical Report No 10 (Socio-Economics) show estimates
of the rate of population growth for each of the schemes in the Jambi, Riau and West
Ka'imantan project areas. Only Rantau Rasau (Jambi), Kuala Cinaku I & 11, Dclta Retah,
Siak Kin (Riau), Rasau Jaya and Desa Kubu (VWest Kalimantan) showcd significant
growth since handover. In most others, population has declined, often dramatically.
The total population at the West Kalimantan project schemes amounts to 82,206 persons
(Appendix 4) At least another 63,755 persons live around the schemes, mainly along
rivers (Buginese, Chinese and Malay people), or in the original villages like Kubu,
Terentang, Teluk Pakedai, Ambawang settlements and Kakap.
Appendix 4 also gives esvimates of the total land available per person for the villages
recorded. It can be seen that the Teluk Pakedai district, with Sei Nipah as project scheme,
has only an average of 1.2 ha land available per person. Even lower amounts of land are
available for Sungai Kakap district with an average of 0.7 ha per person. This coastal
district with schemes like Rasau Jaya 1, II, III and those of the western sub-project area
might get problems with the availability of agricultural land in the near future. if the
population will develop further.
Sei Radak and those schemes of the Kubu district have much more land available per
person with an average of 5 and 4 ha respectively.
6.3 LAND TEN'URE
From the time of first settlement to the present, household status and land tenure has been
changing. Some reasons are that households have:
o     aged and passed land on to their children;
o     bought land in whole or partial plots from departing families;
o     sold land in times of hardship; and
o     actively cleared and exploited good land in unallocatcd areas.
* Virtually all land is owner cultivated: very little is rented or share. cropped. However,
land status is difficult to quantify since the number of original transmigrants remaining on
the schemes is not known, there have been significant movements of people into and out
of the schemes and very few farmers equate the concept of ownership solely with the
issue of Hak Milik titles. Available information suggests that land certificates have been
issued to most current households who are entitled to them.
64



Second dmft- prined I November 192
'.,.ily, transmigrant farmers were granted 2.25 ha of land under a system  of
i   lOts, LU 1 and LU 2 (see Section 2.2). In practice, however, farmers tended to use
v.  better of their plots more frequently and have tended to trade plots without regard to
* 3-.      ' s-l,ef rstatus as LU I or LU 2. This has resulted in the utilisation of the best contiguous
u;   e F   for agriculture, leaving large areas (usually on the periphery of the schemes)
4   LAND-USE ON THE PROJECT SCHEMES
6.4.1 Riau
Lind under agricultural use in the Riau schemes amounts to about 27,800 ha (10,300 ha
"    - c4in Siak and 17,500 ha in Indragiri). Monocropped rice fields amount to 8,540 ha (5,700.
;..,.z>5'": ha in Siak and 2,800 ha in Indragiri). Rice fields occupy about 31% of the land under
* ~-* '<:; agricultural use.
*  ~     In Siak, the remaining area is made up of 21 % predominantly cleared unused lan.' of
scrub and alang-alang, 1  % of house lots including garden crops and II % of tree crops
=,-.4 >,:such as coconut.
In. Indragiri, the remaining land includes 10% mixed coconut/rice/scrub, 10% house lot
gardens, 7% coconut plantation and 7% cleared fallow land of scrub and alang-alang.
dLand under natural vegetation, usually degraded peat swamp forest is about I 1,000 ha
over both sub-project areas.
6.42 Jambi
The total area of cropped land within the schemes amounts to 27,546 hectares (64% but
possibly between 52% and 70% depending on which total surface is taken as a base) plus
3,331 ha of un(der)developed land, uncleared or under alang-alang and scrub, within the
schemes, thus totalling 30,877 hectares (59-79%). (Moderately) good soil is given as
31,409 ha. This close agreement between potention and reality could indicate that farmers
avoid less suitable soil (deep peats, acid sulphate soils). The more fully developed
schemes on the 'deltaic island', Simpang Puding, Rantau Rasau, Pamusiran, Lambur and
Muara Sabak, show cropping intensites of 74-95%; on the less developed schemes on the
margin of peat domes, like Dendang 1, 11, III, Lagan Hulu and Simpang Pandan, cropping
intensities vary between (33-)69-73%
Rice cropping intcnsity, here defined as land under rice with tip to 12.5% coconut relative
to suitable soils available, varies in the opposite way: developed schemes 54-73%; less
developed schemes 59-91 %
The mean arTea cropped per household varies from 1.97-2.34 haJhh to 1.71-2.13 ha/hh
respedvely.
65



*Scond drft; pnned I November 1992
?  <,  Though large areas of Rantau rasau are supposed to be destined for wood crops, notably
fruit trees, because of peats, only Lambur is reported to have 400 ha of fruit trees. Some
pineapple sultivation is attempted on less developed schemes (Dendang I-III).
Existing fishponds are negligible: a mere 14.37 hectares for the Jambi project area.
Fishery does not play an important (commercial) role on the schemes", but off-scheme
(non-ISDP farmers) seem to make considerable use of fish resources for subsistence
purposes.
Table -8:     Summary of land use aspects for the Jambi project area.
(Somic: Techkeel Repon 5 Agfcuawa. Tibl 3.2. p.64)
Rice (with  Total   Cropped  Cropping   Rice     Mean
up to 40%  Cropped    +      Intensity  Intensity    Area
coconut)   Land   Un(der)-                     Cropped
developed
Simpang Pandan (6,500 ha)     1,435    2.710    3.516      73%      65%          2.13
Lagan Hulu (4.030 ha)          585    1,885    2.8B5       33%      91%          2.03
Dendang 1 & 11 (6,500 ha)    2.673    3.293     4.393      69%      59%          1.71
Dendang 111 (1,940 ha)           ?        ?        ?         ?        ?          ?
Muara Sabak (1,950 ha)       1.480    1.480     1.655      74%      54%          1.97
Lamnbur (6,440 ha) +
Pamnusiran (4,140 ha)        4.815    8.165     8.415      95%     55%          2.34
Rantau Rasau (9,110 ha) +
Simpang Puding (2,760 ha)    5,868   10.013    10.013      90%     73%          2.01
JAMBI SCHEMES (43,370 ha)  16,856   27,546    30,877         ?        ?         2.10
6.4.3 West Kalinantan
The total area of the project schemes is 46,114 ha of which 31,255 ha is presently
cultivated. Large aeas degraded by clearing, burning and unsuccessful agriculture are
now under alang-alang, dense fern vegetation and shrubs up to a total of 5,225 ha. Other
degraded semi natural vegetation types like degraded peatswamp forest and mangroves
measure about 2,835 ha.
In most West Kalimantan schemes the areas of cropped soils conform closely to the areas
of good rice soils (mineral and shallow peat without PASS). Because of problems with
flooding, salt inLrusion and PASS/peat soils, farmers selected the best available lands.
This means that present land use pattem has no correlation any more with the original
classifications like LU1. LU2 or reserve lands.
-.  1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
S Wirh b.w excepdor peaph in Mck A or S6Vyrni Pam... dot clim dam o.ac.ms is a rich. aibit de4r oay mm= or
66
3.



_.,:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scn det rne I                         N;;e I
S...
-. 7.
Second dmft; printed I November 1992
Areas fully under cultivation (settled) are Kapuas Il and Rasau Jaya I and II. The database
presented in Appendix 2 gives the ratio between cultivated and total area of land for all
schemes. Most schemes are for more than 60% cultivated but schemes like Rasau .Jaya
III, Kapuas III, Pinang Dalam, Sei Bulan, Jangkang I, Desa Kubu and Sci Radak fall
short in this aspect.
The main cropping systems are rice paddy (18,015 ha or 57%), mixed rice/coconut
(8,940 ha or 29%) and coconuti/treecrops (4,300 or 14%), thc latter mainly in Punggur
Kccil.
Many people living in schemes close to the sea, in particular Kapuas III, Jawi, Betutu and
Sei Nipah are involved in near coastal fisheries and catches in the (bracidsh) canals to
supplement their income during the periods that no rice can be grown. Many of tht:
families living in Kakap village are entirely restricted to fisheries and to providing
transport services at the sea and to the schemes. The rivers in the eastern sub-project area
provide some fish to the inhabitants, but chiefly the Malay and Chinese people living
along these waterways are specialised in river fishing.
Most aquaculture activities in the West Kalimantan project area are traditional, non-
intensive and canied out particularly to supply fish to the family in addition to the normal
agricultural income. Major problems for aquaculture is the bad quality of the water (peat
and PASS) and drying out of ponds during the dry season. Fishes bred are adapted to this
kind  of environment like Jelawat (Leptobarbus  hoevenit), Betutu  (Oxyeleatris
marrmoratus), Tambakan (Helosfoma femmincki), Sepat Siam  (Trichogaster pectoralis),
Betok (Anabas testudineus) and Udang Galah (Macrobrachium rosenbergiO. Trichogaster
pectoralo s has been introduced in Indonesia for cultivation in ponds and ricefields.
Forestry activities are lacking on the project schemes though some initiatives have been
taken to plant trees for future firewood supply like on Sei Radak.
As mentioned before many of especially younger people find a living in off-farm work.
lhis includes work at sawmills along the rivers, rubber and wood-processing factories in
Pontianak, and even jobs in Malaysia.
A unique type of harvesting is the collection of old damar (resin) reserves in the soils
around Rasau Jaya I. Arus Deras and east of Sei Nipah. The damar which is actually a
forest product is sold to a factory.
67



e,,
Jr* V t                                                          Second draft; prined I Nommb.r 1992
7.0   ENVIRONWENTAL ISSUES ARISING FROM PROJECT COMPONENTS
7.1  INTRODUCTION
The main project components with potention to cause environmental impacts are described
in section 3.3. This section analyses the potential impacts they may cause along with
mitigation measures or alternatives which may reduce these impacts. These impacts are
treated in a general sense, in that they may occur over a range of sites where the project
components are implcmentcd. Site specific impacts auc dealt with in dctail in Section 10.
7.2   UPGRADING OF HYDRAULIC INFRASTRUCTURE
7.2.1 Dikes and Canals
The construction and rehabilitation of dikes and canals involves the excavation of 8.2
million cubic metres earthwork, summarized in Tabel 9.
Heavy equipment is only operated during the dry season to avoid too soft swampy soils.
No special precautions are taken to minimize the impact of excavations to existing
environments like agriculture or aquatic habitats.
Potential Impacts
*     The Physical Chemical Component:
The main environmental factor related to these dikes is the type of soil being used for
construction. Potential Acid Sulphate Soils (PASS) occur on large areas of the ISDP
t    project schemes, including those with high levels of pyrite. The amount of pyrite found in
the differcnt soil layers is the key factor in the evaluation of potential impact of these
soils when being exposed to the air. Pyrite content of soils classified as PASS varies
between 1.4% to up to 7%. Soils with an average pyrite content of 2.4% and higher are
known to release prodigious quantities of sulphuric acid up to a soil depth of 4 m (AARD
& LAWOO, 1990).
Typically, soil acidity builds up quickly during the first 30 days after exposure to the air
(digging), after which a long process starts in which toxic levels of Aluminum ion (Al3),
Ferrous ion (Fe?) and other metals are released from the soil matrix. This process stops
when soil acidity has dropped to about pH 2.5 after about 4 months. R4, Chapter 2).
The above mentioned soluble salts are leached into drainage water during rain and in high
concentrations are toxic to plant and fish life.
Direct toxicity by dissolved acid and aluminum will be greatest in those inland schemes
further from the sea where waters are weaker buffered (Dent, 1986). Also, in contrast to
the salt-water zones their is little or no tidal effect to assist drainage and the removal of
acid affluent.
-; 
68
J-.S ?



Secnd dmAt; printed I November 1M
The location of the new dikes and canals involves the destrucion of existing agricultural
lands like coconut groves and rice paddies. However the most profound impact is the
poUution of these fields with effluent from the freshly excavated soils, which depending
on topography will extent much further from the actual site of activity.
Table 9:      Summary of proposed earthworks (in 1,000 m3).
(Source: Main Repui,. An:x 4. Table 4; Techlinl Report 6 Volume 11 Upgrtaing of Evriing h1frouanvwure
App.7)
Rechanndization exisling riverslcanals
and exacavation new canals
Primary  S&MI"am    Tedi2ry   3RLVr
JAMI
Rantau Rasnu      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      171.8      171.8
Simpang Puding      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      191.7      191.7
Lambur       0.0        16.0      24.0       50.0        0.0       90.0
Pamusiran    450.0         8.8      42.0        0.0        0.0      500.8
Dendang 1. 11    752.1     596.5        0.0        0.0      260.5    1.609.1
Dendang III    121.2       57.1        0.0       0.0       168.4      346.7
Simpang Pandan     125.0      162.0       0.0       40.0       32.2      359.2
Lagan Hulu       0.0        0.0       0.0      586.5        0.0      586.5
Sub-Total Jambi      1,448.3     840.3       66.0      676.5
Sub-Total canalsirivers   3,031.1  824.5    3,855.7
RIAU
Siak Kiri A    174.8       30.0       0.0       36.0      112.8      353.6
Siak Kiri B. C, D     6.0       22.0       0.0        0.0      313.6      341.6
Siak Kecil    66.0        67.6       0.0      465.0        0.0      598.6
Kuala Cinaku I     0.0        81.6     135.1        0.0      212.2      428.9
Kuala Cinaku 11     0.0        6.4        0.0       0.0        16.0      22.4
Teluk Kiambang       0.0        0.0       3.4        0.0       80.0       83.4
Tempuling      36.2       33.8       0.0      200.0      150.5      420.5
Retch      59.7        0.0       0.0      160.0        0.0      219.7
Sub-Total Riau        342.7      241.4      138.5      861.0
Sub-Total canalslrivers  1,584     885.1    2,468.7
WET
KALIMANTAN
Western sub-project    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      294.5      294.5
Rasau Jaya      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Pinang Luar    121.8        0.0       0.0        0.0        4.2      126.0
Pinang Dalam      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       21.7       21.7
t                Sci Bulan       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      155.4      155.4
Air Putih      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Sei Nipah    297.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      296.0      593.0
Arus Deras      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       23.2       23.2
Desa Kubu     160.0        0.0      25.0        0.0        0.1      185.1
Olak-olak Kubu      0.0        0.0      79.5        0.0       67.8      147.3
Jangkang I      0.0        0.0      121.3       0.0        0.0      121.3
Sci Radak      0.0        0.0      121.0       0.0      175.7      296.7
69
. ,,- '



Second dnr; prnied I Novcmber M992
Sub-Total            578.8       0.0     346.8       0.0
West Kalimantan
Sub-Total canaWnrivers    925.6    1,038.6    1,964.2
Grand-Total        2,369.8    1,081.7    S51.3   1,537.S
Total   5,540.3    2,748.2   8,288.6
Biologicasl Component
The construcdon of new dikes and canals in areas of peat swamp forest would destroy the
natural vegetation. The main impact, however, would be the fragmentation of wildlife
habitat. Canals and collector drains along the would pose an obstacle  to smaller
terrestrial mammals and reptiles. It has been leamed that canals and dikes located on and
around schemes are the prime access routes for inhabitants to the adjoining forests to
collect wildlifc and logs.
Canals established in moderate to deep peat also drain the adjoining swamp forests result
in the dying of trees and increase in risk of forest and sub-soil fires during the dry
season. The dikes located in pure mangrove forest in West Kalimantan (Kubu) hamper
free flow of tidal water, which may lead to dying of this productive forest. That this is
not the case yet is because present dikes are damaged at three locations, leaving a free
tidal flow.
These on and off-site forest resources should be managed more wisely. Especially in Riau
sites have still important forests resources which act as bufferzones between nature
reserves and development areas.
Socio-Economic Componen
Many of the proposed dikes and canals will cut right through land being used by
inhabitants for settlements and agriculture. No proper consultation has been sought by the
departments of PU with those local people being impacted. Although people were positive
about the infrastructure plans friction will develop when actual excavation work will start.
Also most dikes and canals are solely planned to assist the agriculture of scheme
inhabitants and leave neighbouring farmers out. This is certainly not to the advance of the
integration of local development with transmigrant schemes.
Proect Alternatives
Two aspects have to be evaluated in relation to the earthworks proposed.
o     the location of the dikes and canals, and
-         o        cthe PASS soils effects.
7
70
' i  S:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



Second dnIl; prined I November 1992
.Some of the works on dikes and canals proposed are to be-located on existing forest land,
not being used for agriculture. These lands are not cultivated for reasons like lack of
manpower, seasonal flooding, too deep peat or saline intrusion by the sea. In most cases
v.:.  these forests also have an important function as a wildlife refuge (Riau) and as breeding
and nursery site (mangroves of Kubu, West Kalimantan).
The most obvious alternative would be to relocate these dikes inland in such way that
they directly border productive land and exclude as much as possiblc unproductive
sections of the schemes and forests off-sidc.
Canals entering valuable wildlife habitat or forests to be protected could be closed off
from river transport by physical structures.
PASS soil related problems as discussed above can be minimized or avoided by the
following measures:
o     construction of earthworks only during the rainy season,
o     bring non-PASS soil in from other locations,
o     liming of PASS soil, and
o     reducing the depth of excavation for dike materials.
During the rainy season oxidation of PASS soil material will be slowed down because
soils are corstantly wet and effluent will be better diluted. The increased flow in canals
will transport most polluted water to the larger rivers were buffer capacity is higher. This
means that Public Works has to change its season of operation.
Presently only in some cases of structurally unsuitable peat materials better soil material
is brought in from other nearby locations.
This should also be considered if local soil materials have high amounts of pyrite
(>2.4%). This considers in particular the soils classified as 'moderate' and 'high'
regarding their pyrite content. For an overview of risk classes of these critical soils see
the Appendix 5.
Liming of acid sulphate soils has been proposed by many consultants, but. excessive
amounts of lime (100-150 mtonlha in the first year, and 20-30 mton/ha during two to five
years thereafier) are necessary to only neutralize the top soil layer of dikes and canal
diggings. Giveia the fact that oxidation of pyrite after drainage or excavation can continue
up to a depth of 4 m, all excavated soil material should be mixed with lime. This is even
more labour and capital intensive than transport of suitable soil from adjacent locations.
Also experiments with liming on agricultural lands revealed that this is only successful if
the soils were low in reserves of pyrite or jarosite (Dent, 1986).
71



'-51
Second drft; pnnted I Nowvmber 1992
A lot of negative impact by PASS soils can be minimized if only the upper soil layers are
being used as construction material for dikes. Most ripened soils do not have high
amounts of PASS within 30 cm depth. However, this method would require that much
larger surfaces of land would be cleared (10-15 times), resulting in higher levels of
surface erosion and loss of agricultural crops.
7.2.2 Flap Gates, Sluice Gates and Stop Logs
Although most of these water control structures will be located in tertiary canals, some
will be constructed in secondary canals.
It was learned from the inhabitants at the sites that those structures keep them from using
these canals for transport by boat, and often did not function as they would like them to
keep water in or out their fields. Often these gates had been removed as a result.
Also presently free flowing canals (in both directions) will be transformed into on-way
streams by flap gates, which might give circulation problems when soil water levels drop
in the dry season. Lack of flushing possibilities will result in building up of unacceptable
levels of acid and other effluent from peat and PASS soils.
7.2.3 Weirs
Two weirs are planned for Riau, but no exact data could be obtained about the design and
operation related to the hydrology of the area.
7.3   IMPROVEMENTS TO TRANSPORT AND NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
7.3.1 Roads, Bridges, and Jetties
The upgrading of the road and navigation system will be done by repair of existing earth
roads and paving some of the main transport roads. Though the same physical and
chemical environmcntal aspects apply for this project component as for hydrological
earthworks (section 7.2.1) much less volumes of earth will be moved. Also no new road
sections will be developed. The conclusion is that environmental impact if any is small,
and this will be discussed in the detailed analysis per scheme (chapter 9).
7.4   STRENGTHENING  OF AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SYSTEMS - PEST
:           CONTROL
4    It should bc stated at the outset that agricultural pests are not a problem that is unique to
the transmigrant schemes. Indeed, these agricultural pests are a problem faced by almost
all farmers in Asia and a large amount of research data exists on the various methods of
controlling them. While agricultural pests are indeed a serious inhibiting factor to crop
yields in many schemes, it should be noted that, in general, these pests are of secondary
importance to the more serious problems of wet season flooding and dry season crop
uirngation.
*                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~72
.~  ,-, -                     '7
b~~~~~~~



Second dnf; pnnbed I November 1992
In most cases there is a strong correlation between the severiiy of pest problems and the
amount of available labour on the schemes able to effect controlling measures.
7.4.1 Pig Control
On many schemes, pigs are cited as the single most destructive pest species affecting
production. The pig problem usually occurs in areas where'there is uncleared forest or
scrub adjacent to or in the central areas of lhe fields. Another factor is that on many
schemes thcre is insufficicnt labour to clear the pig habitat or erfectively control pigs by
other means.
The present methods commonly implemented for pig control include:
o     guarding of affected fields at night;
o     hunting of pigs with dogs, spears and occasionally, guns;
o     poisoning, usually with 'Temic';
o     setting of snare traps;
o     construction of locally made fences around individual schemes; and
o     construction of perimeter dikes and canals which arc said to reduce pig
numbers on some schemes.
The proposed project would attempt to solve the problem by construction of a pig proof
fence around the perimeter of the schemes. This system may be impractical on some
schemes and this solution would likely be implemented only on schemes where it is a
realistic option.
Positive impacts of the pig fence would include.
o     possible solution to the pig problem;
o     clear delineation of scheme boundaries; and
o     encouragement of farmers to clear remaining areas of the blocks.
|    Negative impacts of the pig fence include:
o     difficulty of maintenance, particularly as it would be built in areas far away
from farmer's residences, often in areas where the deepest peat soils occur;
o     disturbance to vegetation and soils in outlying locations;
73



:.
* ;-t >-                                                          S,cond daft, pArAed t Nov.IbS 1992
o     isolation of populations of native wildlife on the schemes. While many
species, such as leopards, bears and monkeys would have little difficulty in
climbing the fence others, including deer, pangolin and porcupine would
have no way of escaping; and
o     trapping of large numbers of pigs within the schemes.
Proniect Alternatives
The most obvious altemative to solving the pig problem, and one often suggested by the
farmers, was assistance in clearing the remnaining uncleared land on the schemes and
hence removing the pig habitat. This solution, however is not without problems.
Typically, the uncleared land in which the pigs occur backs on to degraded swamp forest
which, in some cases is included as forest concession. In cffect, the uncleared land is
presently acting as a buffer zone between the forest concession and the transmigrant's
fields. Removal of this area could result in conflicts with the forest concessions,
particularly in some cases where the forest concession claims that the area is available for
logging. Secondly, this "buffer zone' effect was emphasised by several farmers who
slated that endangered species, such as Sumatran Tiger were driven into their uncleared
land because of heavy -logging activities in the adjacent forest. The high population
density of pigs in these areas is also a likely atvraction for tigers. Many of these areas are
currently acting as wildlife refuges because they are not being systematically logged.
Clearing of this land is also unlikely to really eliminate the pig problem, but rather, move
it to another location - the newly cleared fields. Further, unless supplementary
transmigration is implemented on these schemes at the same time, there will be
insufficient labour to maintain the area in a cleared state, and it will eventually revert to
alang-alang and secondary scrub - prime pig habitat.
Safeguards or Mitications
The perimeter pig fence as proposed by the project could be adopted in some small,
sparsely populated schemes where there is clear evidence that it would be viable, and
where it has the support of the local farmers.
Any clearing of land should be uhdertaken by the resident farmers, with assistance ftom
PMS, and should be integrated with a supplemental seLtlement program if necessary to
cnsure thi land can be maint-ained and cropped.
A co-operative agreement with the neighbouring land users (typically forest concession
holders) should be reached such that the adjacent land be managed in a way that will be
environmentally sound and not detrimental to either party. For example, a suitable use of
this land was seen in some schemes where co-op schemes for rubber or oil palm
plantations had been implemented.
74



~-'
Second driirf; pnnaad I November 1992
7.4.2 Rat Control
Rats of several species frequent the schemes and are considered to be pests. The most
,    serious pest species are the Ricerield Rat (Ratlus argenmivemor) which a pest to rice
crops, the Polynesian Rat (R. exulans) and the Malaysian Wood Rat (R. tiomanicus) both
impacting coconut and palawija crops. Rats are currently controlled by the following
methods:
o     poisoning. An enormous variety of poisons are availablc in and ncar the
schemes. The most widely used is Klerat. A list of available poisons is
presented in Appendix 6.
o     hunting with dogs
o     smoking out rat burrows
o     setting snare traps
Rats have a number of natural predators, including snakes (e.g., Black Cobra, Reticulated
Python) and raptors, such as Black-winged Kite (Elanus cacruleus), Barn Owl (7y:o
alba), Shrikes (Laniidae) and some Kingfishers (Alcedinidae). The occurrence of birds
such as owls, eagles and hawks on the schemes is often related to the availability of
nesting habitat, such as large trees. In schemes where all large trees had been cleared,
few raptors were observed and these schemes frequently reponed the worst rat problems.
Project Alternatives
Alternative methods of rat control which involve lower usage of poisons could include:
o     retention of a significant number of large trees whenever blocks are cleared
so that available raptor breeding habitats are not destroyed;
o     artificial introduction of Barn Owls and followed by nestbox program. This
method has met with success in North Sumatra and Malaysia (Lenton 1984,
Toumey 1986);
o     co-ordination  of rice  planting such  that all fields --ae -irrvested
simultaneously. This method deprives rats of a continuous supply of food
on the fields, so that when the rice is ready to harvest, they do not have the
opportunity to quick-ly build up in numbers.
7.4.3 Weed, Insect and Plant Disease Control
A serious problem affecting agricultural production is the high level of weed infestation
on the fields. Often these weeds cover more than 40% of the vegetation competing for
light and nutrients with the actual crop species. Although insects and plant diseases don't
75
.



Second draft; prinied I Novnmber 1992
seem to be a serious problem, and the project description is not very clear on what is
going to happen, insecticides and other pesticides are treated here too.
Availability of Pesticides
In 1991, 535 pesticide formulations were licensed in Indonesia for agriculture and forestry
(PTP 1991). Contrary to conclusions by BCEOM, availability of pcsticides docs not sccm
a problem in the project areas". One hundied and one formulations werc found in shops
rctailing pesticides in Jambi, Riau and West Kalimantan. At least 5 formulations are not
or no longer pennitzedfor use in Indonesia. Table 10 summarizes commercial availability
of pesticides.
Pesticide usage in the Asia-Pacific region is dominated by insecticides (76%), followed by
herbicides (13%) and fungicides at 8%. Thus it is not surprising to note that insecticides
constitute 53% of the formulations available. For some reason (aggressive markenting,
particular swamp environments ?), the number of fungicides available in West Kalimantan
is disproportionately high.
a               Shops investigated wer- the shops that farmers on the field refered the AWB team to,
mostly in the local commercial centres, ie., Reteh (Indragiri, Riau), the market at
secondary canal 17 of Rantau Rasau, Nipah Panjang and Muara Sabak (Jambi) and
Pontianak (West Kalimantan). In addition, a variable number of smaller, to tiny window
'shops' in hamlets were inspected. Search effort is not comparable between project arcas,
largely explaining the differences in total numbers of formulations found.
Table 10:    Type and  number of formulations per project area. Dual purpose
formulations are tabulated twice, but counted once in the totals.
(Soumc: AWB rld da. August-Sepie.br 1992)
Riau            Jambi               West               Total
CKalimantan
Acaracide                  0                 1                   5                 5
Bactericide                0                 0                   2                 2
Fungicide                  1                 5                  19
Herbicide                  3                 7                   9                15
Insecticide                8                22                  5 1               54
Nematocide                 2                 1                   3                 3
Rodenticide                2                 0                   2                 2
Total          14               35                  87               101
..- N-.;
'->^-    X    ~ax ^X_ picWes my be unde*r mc of mWfr   in.......p...........ma.,m. tWw pumbm.^rJ     po- r mymin precldige
76
: W'



~..
.Scond draRl; pnntd I Novevmber 19n
Appendix 6 gives details on the actual formulations's agent in Indonesia, full trade names,
active substances, and permitted uses. It should be noted that these data refer to
availabiliry of pesticides in the free marketplace, not actual usage.
Discrepancies or imbalances noted from the Table amd the Appendix includc:
1     No rodenticides were, found in Jambi.
2     Only one fungicide (Fujiwan 400ec), with only one permitted use (rice>,
was available in Riau.
3     One (Vitigran Blue) of the five fungicides found in Jambi is only permitted
on cocao, coffee and tea, which are not major regional crops.
4     Three single use fungicides for minor, or possibly nonexisting, crops
(Tiezene for tobacco; PP Zineb for potato; Nimrod for apple) are
available in West Kalimantan.
5     Rogor L40 (carbamate) is available, but not licensed and Diran 950
(diuron), Sevidol 414G (carbaryl + lindane), Harcos Malathion 50ec
(malathion), and Temik lOg (aldicarb) are available but are no longer
licensed.
6     Another formulation (Physan) that is apparently not registered was found
in West Klalimantan.
Problem Chemicals/Situations
Most pesticides do not present mnajor problems if used correctly by trined personel.
However, in the project schemes pesticides will be selected, diluted and applied by
individuals who are likely not only to be untrained, but sometimes also illiterate and thus
unable to read directions on the label. These individuals are at risk of poisoning
themselves, their livestock and their environment.
Therefore, there is concern regarding the availability of certain pesticides ie. those with:
I     extreme toxicity to man and other non-target organisms (e.g., aldicarb);
7;. ¢  ~persistence, or resisance to degradation (e.g., organochlorines);
i -i~            3     potential for bioaccumulation in the food chain (eg., organochlorines);
4     potential for abuse (eg., for deliberte poisoning and suicide).
77



*                       e     .- -            -. -
Second duft; pnmed I November 1992
The WHO has classified pesticides into four hazard classes, based on the likelihood that a
pesticide will cause injury under conditions of use. Of the pesticides available in the free
market in the study sites, only two are categorized as Extremely Hazardous (IA), six are
Highly Hazardous (IB), twelve are Moderately Hazardous (U1) and the rest are Slightly
Hazardous, or are unlikely to present acute hazard in normal use (Table 11).
With. respect to the Extremely Hazardous (IA) and Highly Hazardous (IB) pesticides, thc
World Bank (1985) has stated: "All these materials are unsuitable for use by ohlier than
highly trained and skilled operorors under strict supervision. In no circumstances should
they be made avaiZable for use by small farmers or the general public." Indonesian
government policy restricts the distribution of these products to liscenced pest control
companies in minimum containers of ten kilogammnes or litres. Govemment regulatinns
to restrict the availability of IA and IB pesticides are not entirely effective, since eight of
these were found in west Kalimantan, three in Jambi and three in Riau.
In Jambi, "popularity" of formulations was probed by asking four keepers of the larger or
specialized shops to name the top-three saes products in herbicides and insecticides. Of
six trade names consistently mentioned, only Roundup does not show up in the hazardous
substances Table 11 below (bold-faced, underlined trade names).
78



'.m
Second draft; print.d I Nowember 1992
Table 11:      Extremely to moderately hazardous formulations found in the project areas.
Active substances banned for use on rice in Indonesia due to adverse
effects on Brown Planthopper predators, are marked with an asterix 0.
(Souwi: AWB field daU; ADP 1987)
IA  Extremnel hmLirdous
aidicarb               I Temik              No longer licensed in Indonc:ia.
phosphamidon          I Dimecron SOscw    Toxic to fish, bees and wildlife.
IB  Hiahly hazirdost
carbofrurn            I Dharmafur 3g        Very toxic to fish, birds and wildlife.
I Furadan
IIN Curaterr 3g
fenthion -            I Lebacyd 550Oc       Harmful to fish.
methamidophos         I Monitor            Toxic to fish and bees.
monocrotophos         I Azodrin Swse       Toxic to fish, birds and bees.
I Gusadrin
oxamytl                  Vydate IOOas
triazophos            I Hostathion 40cc    Toxic to bes.
11  Modratelv hazardous
2,4-D                 H Rilof H            Toxic to fish.
H DMA-6
H Indamiin 720hc
H Ronstard D83/83ec
BPMC'                 I Bavcarb
I Hopcin 50cc
I }Ciltop
I BPsa50e
I Dharmabas 500cc
I Indobas SOOcc
carbaryl              I Sevidol 414 G      Toxic to honeybees.
I Sevin 85s
chlorpyriphos          IDursban 20cc       Fairly toxic to birds. Toxic to shrimp, erabs and other
I Petroban 200ec    aquatic invertebrates.
diazinon              I Basudin 60cc       Toxic to fish and bee  Higly toxic to birds.
I Diazinon 60ec
dimethoate            I Perfekthion 400ee   Toxic to bees and birds.
endosul fan '         I Thindan 35c        Highly toxic to fish. Toxic to some birds.
fcnitrothaon *        I Agrothion          Toxic to bees and fish.
I Surnithion SOcc
lindane               I Sevidol 4/4 G      No longer licensed in Indonesia.
paaquat               H Para-Col           Can cause humw death wben ingested.
pbcn?hoate *          I Dhanasan 60ec    Toxic to fsb and boc
I Elsan 60ce
' c           btridemoph             F Calaxin
;i~~9~  * ...                        .   -
-.    .-..
* :W  W.,



_    r                                                        tSecond dftn; p,hud I Novanber 19D2
Only one organochlorine, Thiodan (endosulfan), is presently permitted for agricultural
and  forestry  applications. Although  endosulfan  is one  of the  least persistent
organochlorines, residue levels of concern have been reported in Indonesia (Indraningsih
et al. 1990). Sevidol 4/4G, which contains the more persistent organochlorine, lindane,
was recently delisted but remains for sale in West Kalimantan. Residues of other non-
permitted persistent organochlorines, such as aldrin, endrin and DDT have been reported
in Indonesian agricultural products (Indraningsih et al. 19B8).
The more toxic pesticides, cspecially aldicarb, havc potential for abusc, particularly for
deliberate poisoning, for examplc, of trespassing or nuisance livestock. In addition,
various formulations have been employed for suicides.
Conclusion
The following issues are identified as needing monitoring in project sites:
I     availability (and likely use) of non-compliant (unlicensed, rcstricted)
pesticides;
2     the most popular formulations seem to be more hazardous than average;
3     misuse by untrained personel (need for training);
*          4      effects on non-target organisms;
5     human health effects;
6     the emergence of pesticide resistance;
7     identify and promote environmcntally acceptable pesticedes.
7.5 AQUA CULTURE DEVELOPMENT
The major environmental constraint affecting aquacultural development is the exposure of
pyritic'soils during construction of ponds, stucturally instable peat soils and the resultant
poor water quality of the pond. Also lack of surface water in the dry season hamper the
proper development of aquaculture.
The opcration of brackish water fish ponds (Tarnbak) involves the use of pesticides like
Thiodan to kill off predator fish at preparing new ponds or before stocking with new fish
fry. These pesticides are very harmfull to birds and other wildlife.
The placement of fish cages in secondary canals could affect water circulation, and lead
to local pollution problems. However, As the proposed project would only be developed
at a demonstration level, these impacts would be minor.
80
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Secoend dnft pFnlmd I November 1992
If future success arising from the demonstrations appears likely, then management and
monitoring of aquacuitural projects would need to be implemented in order to ensure
environmental protection.
7.6 SUPPLEMENTARY SETTLEMENT SCHEME
The proposal for supplemental scttlement of schemes would bc implemented in locations
where there is clear evidence that additionial people are required to make the scheme
viable. Settlers would not be placed in areas of abandoned schemes, or in areas identified
as having marginal agricultural potential.
To ensure that supplementary settlers do not compound existing environmental problems,
they should be kept well informed of the existing problems of the scheme and the
| environmental objectives of the project.
I
-!~~~~~~~~~~~~8
&



Second dmft- printed I November 1992
8.0 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ARISING FROM EXISTING AND
CONTINUING OFF-SITE ACTIVITIES
8.1 INTRODUCTION
As part of the study, an evaluation of the existing and continuing off-site impacts of the
transmigration sites was made. While these impacts are not directly related to the
proposed project components, the project must also examine thesc processes and attempt
to reduce any adverse existing impacts through technical design, social and institutional
interaction and implementation of appropriate environmental management and monitoring.
Overall, the prcject is designed to reduce off-site impacts by improving agricultural
productivity and therefore creating a more successful on-site economy.
8.2 WILDLIFE EXPLOITATION
A number of native wildlife species are exploited by both transmigrants and local people
living in the schemes. The level of exploitation varies greatly from scheme to scheme
depending on the availability of valuable species and the market demand. The following
wildlife species are exploited to some degree.
8.2.1 Exploited Species
Sumatrn Ti=c
Tigers occur in the vicinity of many of the schemes, especially in Riau and to a lesser
extent, Jambi. They are not found in West Kalimantan. The level of exploitation of this
species on the schemes is generally low, as the species is somewhat uncommon. Most
transmigrants rarely saw tigers and no evidence was found of any transmigrants actively
engaged in tiger hunting.
At one scheme in the Indragiri sub-project area, there is a local non-transmigrant who is a
semi-professional tiger hunter. This person traps tigers using a snare trap made of
bamboo. The line used is made from bicycle brake cable. This person had caught about
five tigers in the Kuala Cinaku area during 1992. One had been caught a few days prior
to the survey team arnving and had escaped earlier that day.
Tigers are caught for their -valuable skin and bone. They are sometimes sold live,
especially if they are young. In the Indragiri area, tigers are sold to a dealer in
Tembilahan, who then sells them in Singapore. In the Siak2 area, they are sold in Siak
Sriindrapura. The skin and boncs of an adult tiger are worth about Rp 2,000,000. The
bones alone are worth about Rp 800,000 per kilogram. It is likely that Chinese traders are
-; ~r.involved in buying tiger products.
4ost tigers sold by transmigrants are caught incidentally in snare traps set for wild pigs.
.  They are left to die in the trap, and can take three days to do so. Severl transmigrants
.U  i.  reported that tigers entered their land because they had been forced off adjacent logging
82
.'t n * . . '
.:-       - --   -  -    -- t



Second dna; pnimed I November 1992
concessions because of the level of disturbance to these areas. This opinion, however, is
difficult to substantiate. The uncleared land on these schemes is also attractive to tigers
because of the abundance of pigs, a favoured prey item. Tigers occasionally enter villages
at night and catch goats and chickens.
In general, transmigrants are not interested in catching tigers, but if one is accidentally
caught, then it is sold through the widely known trade routes.
Maiyan Suinhear
his species occurs in the Riau and Jambi schemes, but not in West Kalimantan. It is
* ommon enough on some schemes to be regarded as an agricultural pest, as they attack
young coconut crops. This species is infrequently caught in pig traps. Dears are not
usually sold, but the tiger hunter in Indagiri sometimes sells them. They are worth about
Rp 180,000 each.
Sambar Decr
Sambar deer are Qccasionally caught in pig traps and are usually either eaten on site, or
the flesh is sold locally in the market. They are hunted on most schemes in West
Kalimantan where therc is surrounding forest. The level of deer exploitation is gencrally:
low.
Lesser Mousedeer
Mousedeer are occasionally caught for food or are sold live. They are worth Rp 4,000-
5,000 each. People sometimcs come from outside the areas to catch mousedeer.
Otters
Otters, which are regarded as a pest to aquaculture, were caught by transmigrants in the
Indragiri scheme. The skins were sold in Tembilahan for Rp 50,000 each. The day before
the survey team arrived at this site, seven skins had been sold. A mounted skin was
produced as proof of this. Small-dawed Otter frequently occur on the coastal schemes of
West Kalimantan, but is seldom hunted for.
Pythons
The Reticulated Python is a very common species on most schemes. T-hey are
occasionally cautht for their skins, which fetch about Rp 70,000 for a large snake. There
is a professional snake hunter in Siak Kiri who is a non-transmigrant. Snake hunters
regularly visit the schemes from outside the area, particularly from Medan. A group of
transmigrants in the Indragiri area sell python skins to a dealer in Tembilahan. Another
species, the Short Python (Python curtis) is also collected sometimes, but this species
usually occurs in the forest and most people had not seen them.
83



Second drmft; pfinied I November 1992
Monitor Lizards
Monitor lizards (mainly Varanus salvator) are caught on most schemes, and sold for their
skins. At Indragiri, some transmigrants were mounting monitor sidns for sale in
Tembilahan. However, in many areas, the skins were not sold, but just kept as curios.
Hunters organised from Pontianak visit the schemes to catch monitor lizards for their
skins. The main catching areas arc around Kubu, Sambas and Ketapang. An inventory
made in 1988 indicated that large numbers of lizards are caught (up to 85,400>, but
numbers were about double ten years before this inventory (KPSL UNLAM, 1988).
Estuarine Crocodiles
Transmigrants are generally not involved in crocodile hunting, presumably because the
species is generally uncommon. At Siak Kiri, two crocodiles were trapped in a secondary
canal which had been closed off for the dry season. The transmigrants had -no interest in
catching these animals, even though this would not have been difricult. Locil people and
outside hunters were occasionally reported to catch crocodiles. Crocodiles were regarded
on some schemes as having magical powers.
Eaise Gavials
This species was reported to be caught in the Indragiri area by a collector from
Palembang. They are generally not caught by transmigrants, even though in the Siak
Kecil area they were often seen.
Birds
Hornbills were occasionally hunted with air rifles and sold, dead or alive. They are worth
Rp 30,000 - more for live birds.
A group of transmigrants at Siak Kiri were actively engaged in bird hunting. They hunted
Oriental Pratincole, Watercock, White-breasted Waterhen, Lesser Whistling Duck, Pintail
Snipe, Gallinule, Javan Pond Heron and Milky Story (Milky Stork were caught on the
coast). One hunter could catch 19kg per day from their fields during the migratory
season.
The bird hunters at Siak Kiri were transmigrants from Indramayu, Java. This area is well
known for bird hunting activities. These hunters had specialist nets and equipment, which
they had brought from Java.
Asian Bonvtongue
The Asian Bonytongue is a highly prized and extremely valuable aquarium  fish,
particularly amongst the Chinese communities throughout Asian. It is said to bring good
luck to the owner.
84
,.. 
i   ,i 



.Seond dral; printd I November IM
This fish is heavily hunted in the Siak Kecil area, although the evidence obtained suggests
that few transmigrants are engaged in this activity, and it is mostly local Malay fishers or
people from outside the area.
Asian Bonytongue occurs all along the Siak Kecil river, but the favoured hunting grounds
are upstream of the transmigration schemes, in the lake systems of Siak Kecil Wildlife
Reserve. Fish are usually caught during the wet season. The lakes are more accessible at
this time of year and it is the brecding season. This species is a buccal incubator (eggs
arc rctaincd in the mouth of the feinales) and the young tend to stay close to the mother
after they are born. At this time they are vulnerable to capture.
Fish are located by spotlighting at night from a boat, and are scooped up in a dip net.
Asian Bonytongue fetch between Rp 50,000 and Rp 200,000 each depending on size and
colour variety. They are usually sold in Pekanbaru or Duri. However, collectors ofhen
come to the lakes by road and buy fish on site. Dealers are otherwise contacted by radio
and then travel to the area to buy the fish. They are not kept in holding ponds, but are
usually just kept in bamboo cage traps until the dealer arrives.
Transmigrants have little involvement in this trade. If a fish is caught, it is usually sold,
*              but transmigrants rarely visit the lake system and showed little interest in developing this
fishery. Very few people realised that the species is protected, or that the lake system is
within a Wildlife Reserve.
Asian Bonytonque occurs in three color varieties in West Kalimantan, including the
precious 'Golden Red'. This fish is caught in the Terentang, Sci Radak and Kapuas
rivers. The common 'Silver' variety which fetcd up to Rp 200,000 is also eaten.
Wildlife Kept for Agricultural Purposes
In the Lambur scheme, Jambi, one former farmer kept a Pig-tailed Macaque Macaca
nemestrina to pick coconut from the tree, for a 20% share in the harvest. In this way the
farmer could obtain a net profit of about 50-100 coconuts per day. The animal, a female,
was trained when the man bought it two months earlier for Rp 120,000 in Muara
Tungkal.
Wildlife Kept as Pets
Wildlife pets are commonly seen on the transmigrant sites, but there is no evidence of
any organised local trade in desirable species. Species observed as pCts included various
birds, particularly doves and parrots, Long-tailed and Pig-tailed Macaques, Slow Loris
and Reticulated Python. Appendix 3 details all pet species observed on the sites.
In West Kalimantan, the impression was given that Proboscis Monkey is not hunted; but
local people have often tried to keep this monkey in captivity, always leading to the
immediate death of the animal.
~ L
'v
_-4-                                             8



ji                                                                  Sacand drft; pnnted I November M992
*     w '  8.2.2  Mitigations
*   Many species which are exploited on the schemes are rare, endangered or protected by
Indonesian law. Indeed, the very act of legally classifying a species as such no doubt
increases its value and thus, its likelihood of exploitation. There seems little point in
actively policing the fauna protection laws at a local level because of the tremendous
difficulties in obtaining evidence and maintaining field staff. Further, this is likely to
provide only a temporary solution.
The only real way of stopping the trade in these species is to attack the problem at the
dealer level and thus stop the market opportunities. This problem is far beyond the scope
of the present study and requircs an effort on the part of the relevant law enforcement
authorities.
In general terms, however, it is apparent from the field studies that the transmigrants are
only re.motely involved in these activities, and then only on an opportunistic basis. The
transmigrants have a far greater interest in developing a successful agricultural economy
on the schemes than in developing a wildlife trade.
*     The incidence of accidental capture of potentially valuable wildlife is very low, and can
be further reduced by alternative methods of pig control and better management of
adjacent uncleared lands, as proposed in this project.
8.3   OFF-SITE HARVESTING OF FOREST PRODUCTS
Forest resources play an important role in the daily lives of Indonesian people in
agricultural societies, to supplement their income or to provide new agricultural land
(mostly slash and burn). This also accounts for transmigrants who harvest several forest
products from their uncleared lands and forest areas adjacent to the ISDP schemes.
During the first years of the development of the schemes people relied heavily on off-
farm income because their agriculture investments (clearing, planting, drainage system,
etc) had not fully given results. People burned their lands to clear it of vegetation and to
decrease the peat depth. Crop production on these lands appeared to be only successful
for the first one to two years after which production levels dropped strongly. New lands
were opened as a result.
It can be concluded that even today after many years of cropping available labour and
capital input are too restricted to optimally develop the agricultural system at the
schemes. As a result income of the farmers is low and the need to find off-farm incomIe
lhigh.
This has led to the situation that on many schemes up to 50% of the families have one or
more mcmbers worldng outside the scheme. Especially the young men, who are involved
in logging.
86
U-._                                                                                                     I



*1l -
Vms.
Second drft: prled I Notnmber 1992
Before and during the establishment of the ISDP schemes, logging companies had often
already extracted all valuable timber from the swamp forests on and off-site. However,
still suitable logs could be extracted on a small scale basis by local people and
transmigrants, who sell these logs to local wood traders and sawmills.
People firstly udilised resources at the schemes itself. On somc schemes in Riau,
transmigrants however have been stopped by logging companies from clearing their own
(LU 2) land, claiming that it was covered by forest concession.
A closer look at these swamp forests located around the schemes reveals that most of
these lands have the status of Conversion Forest for West Kalimantan but Production
Forest in Riau and Jambi (see appended Land-uselForest Status maps, Map lB4B).
Nature reserves like Siak Kecil (Riau) and Berbak National Park (Jambi), are located.
further away but still within the potential impact zone of the schemes. These three main
types of forest land status implies that these are managed by the government in line with
their respective status. Spontaneous developments like extraction of logs by inhabitants of
the project schemes, operation of sawmills and extraction of secondary forest products
certainly are not under control and have led in many instances to the degradation of
Production Forest's. Conversion Forests are planned to be converted to productive types
of land-use which does not include the observed destruction of swamp forests on deep
peat, which leave only unproductive shrublands unsuitable to agriculture.-
In Riau and Jambi this process is still fully going on, but in West Kalimantan were
exploitation of the forests started earlier these resources are running out of logs.
In West Kalimantan Jelutung (Dryera lowia) is of particular interest becausc it is one of
the main tree species being extracted as logs from the surrounding peatswarnp forests by a
high number of fanners originating from the project schemes.
Also Meranti Batu (Sihore), Mabang (.?) and Meranti Bungga (Shorea reysmannicana)
are processed as logs. However, all wood resources are becoming scarce because of the
long history of exploitation.
In Riau transmigrants generally do not travel far into the forest to collect timber. Most
people interviewed did not usually travel more than one or two kilometres into the forest,
although they sometimes went further for rattan. There are two principle reasons for this
more restricted travel into the forests than at the West Kalimantan project area
Firstly, the forests in Riau are still relatively undisturbed, are densely vegetated and the
entrance routes are limited.
Secondly, as most transmigrants are Javanese, often originating from city environments,
they have an inherent fear ol the forest and prefer to stay on their cultivated blocks.
Locl people, on the other hand, readily enter the forests to harvest timber. Most local
ple interviewed claimed that they never saw trnsmigrants in the foresL
87
.  .



Seconi dmft. pinnted I November 992
9.0   ENVIRONMENTAL  ISSUES  AND  CONSTRAINTS  OF  INDIVDUAL
SCHEMSES
9.1  INTRODUCTION
In sections 7 and 8, the impacts of project components and off-site pressures which are
common to all, or most of the project schemes were assessed. This section analyses
significant project components or environmental pressures which are uniquc to particular
schemes.
9.2   SIAK KERI (Riau - Siak Sub-project)
9.2.1 Upgrading of Base Camp, Siak Kiri
The project proposes to upgrade the existing Base Camp, located at Buantan to the south
of the Siak Kiri schemes. The Base Camp is currently in a state of disrepair and the
proposed upgrading would be necessary in order to accommodate the workforce needed
for the civil works program.
;    The base camp is located next to the Siak Besar River. At the site, there are exposed
*   banks which have been disturbed through works activities. Wave action from passing
ships is presently causing serious erosion to these banks. The vegetation in the area of the
base camp is highly disturbed secondary scrub which has no conservation value other than
protection of the soil.
There is an historic site located only a few metres from the buildings at the base camp.
This site is a pond and mound built by the first King of Siak, Sultan Abdul Jalil
Rachmatsvah. Five metres from the pond lies the grve of Panglima Emping BaTantah.
The Sultan himself is buried at a site about 1km south of the base camp. It is protected by
an elaborate shelter which was built probably by the Ministry of Tourism, Post and
Teecommunication.
The pond, mound and grave at the base camp are presendy in the process of being fenced
off.
Project Altematives
There are no feasibly altematives to the location of the Base Camp. Since this work is an
upgrade to the existing camp, it is more environmentally sound to limit disturbances to an
area that is already disturbed.
Safeguards or Miti ations
Erosion of the banks near the base camp should be brought under control, through the
laying of bunds and revegetation of the banks. Destruction of the vegetation cover around
88
E ..



.cond daft; pdnled I Novenbt 1992
the base camp should be kept to a minimum, and rehabilitation of disturbed areas be
initiated.
There is likelihood that fuels and other chemicals would be stored at the site, and these
should be maintained in a secure compound area which is located at some distance from
the river.
lhe historic site at the base camp should be protected by fencing, as is currently being
done. A sign cxplaining ihc significance pf the site should be erected.
9.2.2 Weir and Dike Construction
The project proposes to construct a 26.2 km long dike surrounding blocks B, C and D
(see appended Project Activites map, Map IA). The dike would follow the north bank of
the Buantan River, cross the back of block D to the Raya River, then to the Siak Besar.
A second dike, 9.4 km long would be built on the opposite side of the Raya River, in
block A. In addition to these dikes, weirs would be built on botfi the Buantan and Raya
Rivers. These weirs would be used to supply water for a pilot irrigation scheme in the
dry season. The dikes are to prevent flooding in the wet season from the peat swamp to
the west.
Both the Buantan and Raya Rivers are 'blackwater' rivers which drain from an extensive
peat swamp. In the vicinity of the schemes, the river banks have been largely cleared of
natural vegetation, but in the upper reaches there is som  rermaining. The False Gavial (an
Endangered species) is reported to still occur in the Buantan River, but populations are
likely to be very low.
Most of thc western parts of block D are uncleared and consist of degraded primary and
secondary forest which covers at least 6 sq km within this scheme, mostly on very peaty
soils. Most of the commoner wildlife species in the area probably live on this site. It was
reported that tigers occasionally come in to this area
Potential Impacts
The environmental impacts likely to occur at this site due to the proposed project include:
o     loss of vegetation and bank habitat along the Buantan and RayaRivers;
o     isolation of a fairly large area of peatswamp forest within the scheme
through construction of the dike;
o     inability of aquatic animals such as fish and turdes to move up and down
the Buantan and Raya Fivers during the dry- season, due to the weir
*   - .2  ..         obstructions.
*  ; *  i
2    *                            ~~~~~~~~~~89



S-cund draft; prnLed I November 192
o     likely lowering of water levels in the two rivers concerned and draining of
the source area which is in peatswamp.
pro)ect Alternatives
Most people interviewed in the Siak Kiri and Si:k Kecil schemes felt that the proposed
solution would not solve completely the problem of dry season irrigatiein. The proposed
weir and dikc system would be supplemented by pumped irrigation to distribtite water to
the fields but even then, some arcas would not be serviccd.
An alternative solution has been proposed by a local consultant which involves digging a
direct connecting canal from the Siak Kecil River at the Pesinsim River junction to the
Siak Besar River near the Langkat River, a distance of about 12 km (Map IA>. From this
canal, a series of secondary and tertiary canals would provide irrigation to blocks in both
Siak Kiri and Siak Kecil.
This project has widespread support in the schemes; almost everyone interviewed in Siak
Kiri and Siak Kecil had heard of it and wanted it to go ahead. There is a popular
misconception about where the canal actually originates. Many persons believed that the
canal would come from a large lake (probably Lake Airhitarn) in the Siak Kecil Wildlife
Reserve. This view is also presented in BCEOM (1991- Vol 6; Vol 14). However,- this
lake is dry during the dry season and may be at a lower elevation than the schemes. The
-    most feasible starting position of the canal is at the junction of the Pesinsim and Siak
Kecil rivers, as represented in BCEOM (1991- Vol 7, App 4-1) and in Map IA
There are several ecological problems associated with this project alternative. Contrary to
-   BCEOM (Vol 6; Vol 14) the route does not pass through the Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve.
Nevertheless, the consequences for the Reserve arc still alarming. The canal is likely to
significantly increase drainage from the reserve and thus lower the level of the stream and
* also of the lakes. Since the lakes are already quite shallow (<2m generally), the canal
could cause many of the lakes to dry completely. This would have serious consequences
for the populations of aquatic species living there, especially the rare False Gavial and
Asian Bonytongue.
It should also be remembered that the proposed deepening an widening of the Siak Kecil
navigation canal is also designed to decrease water levels in the Siak Kecil River and thus
would compound the problem.
The proposed route of the canal crosses a large peat dome. The peat depths in this area
are not known, but may be in cxcess of 10 meLres. The canal will have an effect of
draining and slowly killing this peat swamp forest (and subsequent subsidence of peat)
and therefore threatening the wildlife species which live there, including Tiger and
Clouded Leopard. The canal would also create a fragmentation of habitat and open up the
area to possible exploitation.
90
..                                        I



Second dnhl; prinmed I November 1992
While the proposed 'Pesinsim Canal" is not a part of the currently proposed project, it
has widespread support in the local community and at the District level and may be built
independently.
This canal cannot be justified on environmental grounds. If it is built, the proposed ISDP
project for this area will have to be modified or abandoned, as it may be unnecessary. As
such the project should take up this matter with the provincial authorities, including the
Dcpartment of Forestry.
Since there is some question as to the effectiveness of the proposed scheme, there seems
little point in constructing the norLherly portion of the dike through an area of uncleared
peat swamp, particularly as the soils in this area are likely to be very marginal for
agriculture. Integration of the dike with the proposed new road along the centre of the
scheme. may be more effective, although this would mean continued and perhaps
increased flooding of areas outside the dike. These areas are at present sparsely
populated, and the people on this part of the scheme may have to move inside the dike
system if this alternative is realised.
9.3   SLAK KECEL (Riau - Siak Sub-project)
9.3.1 Upgrading of Navigation Canal
In 1987, in order to alleviate a series of severe flooding events in the Siak Xecil area, a
canal was constructed which links the Siak Kecil to the Siak Besar rivers. The canal has
also greatly improved water access to the Siak Kecil area.
The existing canal is 4,600 metres long, with an average width of 20 metres (26 metres at
the surface) and an average depth of 5 metres. In order to further improve flood
mitigation, and also to solve serious problems of erosion due to turbulent flows in the
canal, the project proposes to deepen the canal to an average 8 metres and widen it to 30
metres average and 40 metres at surface. Details of the modelling for this project are
contained in BCEOM (TR no 7).
The construction of the navigation canal has created an unusual aquatic environment.
During the dry season, the tide flows up the canal and into the Siak Kecil River before it
flows up from the Siak Kecil mouth. This has led to reported salinity problems in block
A' from upstream. Through most of the dry season, salinity intrudes part way into the
navigation canal from the Siak Besar River.
Two endangered species live in the canal, the Estuarine Crocodile, which reportedly
comes up from the Siak Besar River during the dry season, and the False Gavial, which
enters the canal from the Siak Kecil end. The survey team observed a False Gavial about
500 m down the canal from the Siak Kecil in September, 1992. Another rare aquatic
species which occurs in the Siak Kecil River is the Asian Bonytongue fish.
-Potential Impact
91



Second drft; prinftd I November 1991
The widening and deepening of the canal will double the current daily discharge of the
Siakl Kecil into the Siak Besar and increase flows by 20%  (TR 1991 no 7). There is a
predicted change in the water lcvels of the Siak Kecil River of p-u 3cm at high tide and
minus 60cm at low tide. Another consideration during the dry season is that salt intrusion
into the Siak Kecil is likely to be greater due to the higher volumes of water entering the
system from the Siak Besar.
The effects of the general lowcring of waler lcvels in the Siak Kecil River during the dry
scason could include:
o     changes in the bank habitats along the river, and thus possible changes in
fish populations.
o     reduction in navigability of the river and access to jetties and landings.
o     premature dry season draining of lakes in the Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve
and thus a reduction in available habitat for aquatic species.
o     widening of the canal will involve loss of land and crops in some villages
which are close to the canal.
Project Alternatives
Most persons interviewed in the Siak area were pleased with the operation of the existing
canal. Nobody spoken to had heard of the proposal to widen and deepen the canal and the
general opinion was that it was currently functioning well.
There has been no serious flooding in the area since the canal was constructed and the
river rechanneled. Further, most of the Siak Kecil blocks in the flood prone upstream
areas are now abandoned and this area is planned for a buffer zone (Section 9.3.2). Those
blocks that are still populated are included in other flood mitigation proposals.
It is suggested that very few schemes would really benefit from this project component.
The ecological consequences of such a change in hydrology are unclear, but it is possible
that populations of rare aquatic species in the Siak Kccil River may be affected. It is also
possible that the protected lake system of Siak Xecil Wildlife Reserve could be adversely
affected.
This component should therefore be excluded from the project until it can be jusrti,ed in
'enns of agricultural bcriefi:s and ecologicol safeguards.
The proposed "Pesinsim Canalw discussed in Section 10.2.2.2 would likely have a similar
effect in lowering water levels in the Siak Kecil River and if this canal is built, tLen the
navigation canal upgrade would be superfluous.
92
-4 _
'3
..



'aI
Second dnm; prinied I November 1992
9.3.2 Buffer Zone for Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve
The Giam - Siak Kecil Wildlife Reserve, gazetted on 6 June, 1986, covers an area of
approximately 100,000 ha of swamp forest, peat swamp forest and floodplain lakes
(called Wtasiks'). In the south western part of the Reserve, dryland forest occurs.
According to Mackinnon (1982) the reason for protection of the reserve is to ensure
protection of breeding habitat for the False Gavial, as well as protection of endangered
species such as Tiger and Elephant.
The main feaLures of the Reserve are a series of dystrophic lakes covering an area of
about 8,000 ha, which drain into the Siak Kecil River. Forests in the area are very
degraded due to past logging practices. Giesen & van Balen (1991a) report that the
Reserve is currently subjected to a considerable amount of illegal logging.
Few transmigrants interviewed in the Siak Kecil schemes were aware of the existence of
the Reserve, and none had actually been there. Local people use the Reserve extensively
for fishing, especially during the wet season when access to the lakes is better. Local
fishers interviewed inside the Reserve reported never seeing transmigrants in the area.
The principles of buffer zone management are well established, and usually involve a low
intensity type of land usage, such as plantation estate which has minimal impact on the
adjacent conservation area while allowing limited production capabilities.
The project proposes to utilise 5,000 ha of abandoned schemes in Siak Kecil as a buffer
*     zone to protect the Siak Kecil YWldlife Reserve, which is located about 5km to the west
*     of these schemes (9km by river).
*    These schemes were abandoned after a serious flood in 1984. There has been no major
flooding in the area since then, and the water flow has been improved through
rechannelisation of 8km of the Siak Kecil River and the construction of a canal linking the
-     Siak Kecil and Siak Besar Rivers. These works were undertaken in 1987.
The present situation is that almost all schemes on the north bank of the river (blocks F',
-   F, D, C, A, and B') are abandoned. The remaining inhabited scbemes are blocks B, A',
and C'. Most of the abandoned blocks occur in the western part of the scheme, nearest to
the Wildlife Reserve. The buildings on these blocks have been pulled down and taken
away for constructon material elsewhere and the area is now. a vast -expanse of alang-
alang grass. A few Malay fishers have established houses and small transient villages
along the river in this area.
The suggestion for the area to be a buffer zone is presented in TR14 but no detail has
-     been provided. Giesen & van Balen (1991) also suggest the area be used for this purpose.
The establishment of a buffer zone would require a coopeative effort with all parties
concerned including transmigrants, local people, forest concessions, PHPA and Caltex.
93
*  .4
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second draf: pnnted I November 1992
In the strictest sense, this area cannot really be called a 'buffer zone' since it does not
directly abutt the conservation reserve and the intervening land is forest concession.
However, a less intensive usage of the land is nevertheless desirable, particularly since it
would appear unsuitable for intensive agriculture.
A suitable, low intensity form of land use for the area would need to be agreed upon.
Already, the villagers at block B have formed a co-op wiLh a logging concession which
plans to use part of the land for rubber plantation, and possibly also coconuts.
9.3.3 Supplementary Settlement
The project proposes to resettle approximately 600 households in the Siak Xecil schemes.
This part of the project would have a very positive impact on the economy of the
remaining schemes, since the lack of manpower was often cited as a major problem on
these schemes.
Since the abandoned schemes on the north bank of the Siak Kecil River are destined to
become part of a buffer zone development (Section 9.3.2) there is little sense in resettling
these areas.
It is therefore proposed that the resettlement scheme be concentrated on reinforcing the
population of existing schemes, particularly blocks F', I, B, and A'.
As an example, in Blocks IlH only 76 families are present, and half of these are locals.
Originally, 415 families were settled there but most moved out after the 1984 flood. The
main problems facing these people are the limited workforce to clear land and control the
pig problem. If these schemes were resettled, particularly in conjunction with the
proposed hydraulic system upgrades, they would very likely be successful.
9.4   KUALA CINAKU I (RIAU - INDRAGMI SUB-PROJECT)
9.4.1 Canals and Dikes
The project proposes the installation of 20.7 km of new dikes on the Kuala Cinaku I
scheme. In Blocks CO and Cl, the dikes would completely surround the southern
boundary, including about 3 km along the north bank of the Cinaku River and I km of
the Ampat River.
In Block D, on the north bank of the lndTagiri River, about 6 km of new dike is
proposed, chiefly along the IndTagiri River. Overall, the project would also include 42 km
of new secondary and 25 km of new tertiary canal construction. There is also a proposed
upgrading of the main road between Blocks C and D, on the north bank of the IndTagizi.
-4                              ~~~~~~~~~~94
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second dafl; pnned I November 1M
The new provincial road (asphalt) dissects the southern bank section of this scheme. The
road is on a raised section and thus acts as an additional dike. The new road is reported
to have caused flooding in the area near the Indragiri River.
Potential Impacts
The main environmental issues at this scheme are the reported occurrence of several
species of rare wildlife in the arca, including White-winged Wood Duck, Falsc Gavial,
Estuarine Crocodile and Sumatran Tiger.
Most of the land in the southern parts of Blocks Cl and CO is uncleared secondary and
primary forest which is in good condition and supports a variety of wildlife. The
construction of a dike along the southern boundary would isolate about 2-3 sq km of
forest on the block if it remains uncleared.
The Cinaku River was reported to contain nesting habitat for Estuarine Crocodile and a
small tributary, the Ampat River was reported to be a significant area for False Gavial.
The construction of a dike along the banks of these rivers may cause disturbance to these
habitats or affect nesting sites. More importantly, it would open access to these areas
which at present is difficult.
White-winged Wood Ducks were reported from fields in Block Cl. These birds may
come from the forested area in the upper Cinaku River. They were also reported to fly
across from the north bank of the Indragiri.
EPriect Alternatives
A local consultant has proposed dikes along both banks of the Indragiri River, but this
may not be a feasible option because of the instability of the banks.
An altemative which would relieve pressure on the upper Cinaku River area would be to
construct the dike along the boundary of the currently cropped fields, rather than along
the Cinaku and Ampat rivers. If this is not feasible, then location of the dike at least 100
m away from the river banks would reduce impacts on this potentially sensitive area.
This would involve the loss of some land on the schemes, but this land is currently
uncleared and may be less suitable for agriculture, and thus unlikely lo be cleared .in the
near future. This alternative is also likely to relieve the current pig problem on the
scheme, and offer protection to the wildlife of the area.
Safe2uards and Mitizations
This scheme has the greatest amount of civil works proposed in the entire Riau project
area Therefore, considerable attention should be given to proper environmental
management and monitoring.
95



Second draft prnmed I Novemer 1992
: *    rhere is a need to verify the reported occurrence of White-winged Wood Duck and False
Gavial in the Cinaku River area. A fauna survey of this and the Ampat River should be
conductcd in order to assess the conservation value, of the site, and to determine the
impact of the proposed project. Particular attention should also be paid to potential-
crocodile nesting sites. A survey team currently investigating the status of the White-
winged Wood Duck in Riau has been informed of these observations and may be able to
verify the conservation value of this area.
There appear to be no significant areas of PASS soil on this scheme.
.   Materials for dike construction would come from the sandy bed of the Indragiri River.
This would ensure minimal disturbance to peat soils, and would also provide a sounder
base than the on-site materials, which are often very peaty. Removal of this volume of
sand from the river is unlikely to have a significant impact, but this part of the operation
should be monitored. In addition, the survey team heard several independent reports of
young False Gavials being dug up from the river during these sand excavations. These
reports seem strange, since the Indragiri River appears to be an unsuitable habitat for this
species. If this is the case, then care needs to be taken during these excavation activities.
9.5   KUALA CINAKU II (RIAU - INDRAGURI SUB-PROJECT)
Most of the infrastructure for the Kuala Cinaku II scheme involves installation of stop
logs, gates, etc. on the existing tertiary canals. There is 0.8 km of new secondary canal
proposed. There are some areas of PASS soil on this scheme, and thus control measures
would need to be taken where carthworks occur.
There is a 5.8 kn long dike proposed for the north bank of the Indragiri River.
-' Potential Impat
There are no significant local impacts on this scheme other than disturbance to bank
vegetation which is already badly degraded or cleared.
9.6 TELUK KIAMBANG (RIAU - MIDRAGIRI SUB-PROJECI)
The project proposes a 10 km long dike along the Indragiri and Pengalian Rivers in order
to control flooding which occurs between the river and the main road. Additional
rehabilitation and upgrading of gates, etc is also proposed. The system of canals in this
scheme has becn duplicaled, such that some canals run alongside others and are separated
j    only by a shouider. It is proposed that these canals be joined.
Most of the land on this scheme is cleared, or in the process of being cleared.
Potential Impacts
96
--- l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



Second dnft; prnmed I November I992
There are areas of PASS soil on this scheme which may -be exposed during canal
upgrading and subsequently oxidate to pollute water with sulphate acid. The proposed
dike would have little localised impacts since most of the site has already been cleared of
vegetation. Along the Pengalian River, there are some fringing mangrove areas.
The combined effects of dike constructicns along the Indragiri River may cause off-site
flooding in new areas, particularly the small local town of Teluk Kiambang which is
located on the northem side of the river from the scheme of that name.
Dikes are proposed for about 10 km along the north bank upstrcam of this area and a dike
is proposed to completely surround the Tempuling scheme which would redirect water
into Teluk Kiamnbang town area along 'MPart 8'. In addition, the new road on the southem
side of the river effectively acts as a dike and has already caused some flooding. With all
these factors combined, there would be few places left along the river where floodwaters
could disperse. Examination of Map 2C shows that the area in the vicinity of Teluk
Kiambang township is the most likely location where this event would occur. See also
under the Simpang Puding scheme in Jambi (section 9. 1) for a similar problem.
Safeguards and Mitigations
The proposed dike for this scheme would probably be unnecessary had coordination with
the provincial road construction been established; the main road should have been built
along the proposed dike route.
Similarly, the construction of duplicate canals is perplexing. This has also meant that for
every crossing along the main road, two bridges have been built. This apparent
duplication of projects should not continue.
The combined effects of multiple dikes along, the Indragiri River on local towns and
settlenents should be assessed and monitored. If flooding occurs in these areas, then
some form of compensation.or redesign of the project might have to be implemented.
9.7 TEMPULING (RIAU - INDRAGIRI SUB-PROJECI)
The project proposed 10 km of dike surrounding the northern part of the scheme in order
to protect it from flooding which comes in from the peat swamp to the north. There is
also some rechannelisation of the Simpang Kiri River.
Road constnrction at this site includes 5 km of connccting roads within the scheme and
the reconstruction of the connecting road betwcuz Teluk Kiarnbang and Tembilahan,
including the construction of several new bridges. The scheme is presently serviced by a
network of narrow asphalt roads.
Most of the land in the northern part of this scheme is uncleared peatsuwamp forest. Soil
surveys for the area report the occurance of PASS soils,. including those of the Sulfic
Fluraquents type (aveage pyrite 2.8 %). Field observations by the survey team indicated
97
_  ._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second draft; puinted I Navimber 9m
also deep peats in this area. There is a lot of logging currently going on to the north of
the scheme and the uncleared land within the scheme has also been logged (against the
protests of the transmigrants).
The entire Tempuling scheme is reported to have been built on a significant Estuarine
Crocodile nesting site, and the species has become rare in the region since. It still occurs
(and perhaps breeds) in a swampy area to the north of the scheme. Falsc Gavials are also
reported to occur in the area, as are bears and occasionally tigers.
potential Impc
Clearing of the forest for dike' construction along the northcrn boundary will cause
disturbance to wildlife and also create a fragmented environment.
Rechanneling of rivers will adversely affect aquatic wildlife, including Estuarine
Crocodile and False Gavial. This impact would be temporary.
PASS soils uncovered during earthworks could cause crop damage and present problems
for aquaculture development.
Project Altematives
Two alternative routes have been proposed for the road; one which follows the existing
road along the Indragiri River, with replacements for unsafe bridges, and the other
connecting the upper Mumpa River to the existing road to the west of the scheme (see
Map 2A).
During the field survey, however, it was noticed that the first option, that of upgrading
the existing road along the river, had been already completed except for one remaining
bridge, where work appeared to be at an advanced stage.
9.8 RETEH (RIAU - INDRAGIRI SUB-PROJECT)
The only civil works activities proposed for Reteh scheme are the rechannelisation of a
deadlock along the Enok River (in order to improve wet season drainage), and a series of
stop logs and gates on the existing canals to improve irrigation.
These activities are unlikely to have a significant impact on the environment. Almost all
of the Reteh schcme has been cleared and any remaining natural vegetation is very
degraded.
9.9 SIMPANG PANDAN and LAGAN HULU (JAMBI)
Simpang Pandan Block A.
98



.b.
_:: d  t                                                          Second dmft; printed I November 1992
-'- tThe project activities focus on flood protection and drainage of the northern Block A of
Simpang Pandan, which is completely isolated from the remainder of the scheme. The
existing perimeter dike, built in 1982, is too low7 and the project proposes to raise the
perimeter dike (6 km  rehabilitation). The project also proposes to restore the original
course of the small Mendahara River, i.e. through the Block. To that end, the current
secondary canal SK6"S should be impounded on both banks (5.8 km of new dike>,
effcctively dividing Block A in two separate protected areas. The (improved and new)
impoundment will require 31,200 m' earthwork, all of local origin. Four new  waLer
control works in the dikes regulate water level and flow.
To improve drainage of the restored Mendahara River, the secondary canal SK6 of Block
A, would be rechannelized (6 krm) and connected to an unspecified part to the cast,
which would be rechannelized until the Lagan River (5.8 km). Also, 2 km of the Simpang
Pandan river would be rechannelized to upgrade drainage of Block A (and C and D).
Rechannelization will produce over 183,000 m3 of soil material, predominantly peat, to be
disposed off locally.
It should be noted that the largest part of Block A is still uncleared, under-developed or
abandoned and bears extensive stands of disturbed primary peatswamp forest. These
remaining forest stands are contiguous with the forest that surrounds the Block. Uncleared
and abandoned land largely coincides with very detp peats. In fact only the southem 30-
40% (up to secondary canal SK7) is still inhabited and marginally cultivated. The
northern protected area would consist almost entirely of deep to very deep peats. All
dikes and the vast majority of rechannelization work will be in very deep peats or in soils
with moderate to high pyrite risk (Hemic sulfihemiss, Sapric tropofibrisis, Terric
troposaprists, with 3.9-12.5% pyrite in the first 120 cm).
The majority of the original transmigrants have abandoned the Block and many of those
who persevere complained 'to do the same within the coming two years uness the
Government will help us with the floods' The Block definitely gives the poorest
impression of all schemes visited and reportedly off-farm, off-scheme activities are
indispensable to subsist Indeed more than half a dozen chainsaws were active, in the
surrounding peatswamp forest when the AWB team visited the Block. There are no
problems with pigs, rats or wildlife, because there is nothing for them to get because of
the flood.
Simpang Pandan Blocks B-D, and Lagan Hulu.
17 Judgig fom ibe difference beween th soil aiwface and tc wt exisiq flIp g. surfices. the dike subided about 30-40
mi in 10 yeam. aavating the sLuiatn Famne camphied to the AWD Iear that in fat ihc dikc exietnded the period
that their land was flooded. bcaus the dike hindered drmnse at th wet sason. Fr this ream" the existing fap sales
at both cads of the pnmry canal (where new as are pmnpad by the poject) hod been clad of their fIbps and are
emenslafy non4bct.
ic am h secoa,wy csul SK6 or Block A im so Mendabwasr amigion came. bt as an th name.
99



Second dmft; printed I November 1992
S  f  Flooding of Blocks C and D of Simpang Pandan would be caused by water weeds
-   cloggirng the Lagan River". Therefore, the project proposes to rechannel the Lagan River
-   (again!) over 8 km, and improve drainage to the river by rechannelization of the
navigation canal' (6 km between Blocks B, C and D) and secondary canal SK6 (5.8 km
:   between Blocks C and D). This rechannelization exercise will produce a total of 684,000
.  nm' earthwork (78% from the Lagan River), and to be disposed of locally.
All rechannelization work will be in deep peats or in SOilS wiLh moderate to high pyrite
i   risk (see above), particulaily the rechannelization of the Lagan River.
- Finally, the important navigation canal between the Lagan and Sabak Rivers, would be
deepened by at least 1 meter over the central 3.5 km, producing c. 46,500 m3 earthwork,
to be locally disposed of. There are no details on the soil around this canal.
Potential Impact
Impacts (very) likely to occur in or around Simpang Pandan Block A:
o     further isolation of fairly large stands of (partly degraded) peatswamp forest
within Block A, particularly the northern protected area, because of the
raised perimeter dikee;
o     water tightness and stability of the perimeter dike will be low, and flooding
risk remain hiah, because locally available soil material is only peat;
o     considerablc amounts of excavated soil of moderate to high pyrite risk will
release toxic exudates in the newly impounded SK6 and on to the
unspecified pari in the east. Agricultural (non-ISDP) land downstream,
along the Lagan River, may be affected;
o     unless instant dramatic improvements in the living conditions of the current
inhabitants are achieved, off-farm, off-scheme income from illegal logging
will remain  the main source of income. (Partly degraded) primary
peatswamnp forest in and around Block will be (further) degraded.
The effect of the normalization/rechannelization of the Lagan River on its discharge has
not been studied in the hydraulic reporL Presumably it is hoped that increased discharge
will purge the river from the water weeds. Earthwork on the Lagan River almost
completely coincides with extremely acid Sulphic tropaquept soils with pyrite between 50
and 100 cm (and more?). It seems unavoidable that:
o     a large volume (maximum 540,000 m3) of potential acid sulphate soils will
be exposed and subsequently cxidate to produce toxic exudates.
m9 augi ihe Lan Rier is indced heavy ckoed with an unidentireed floaot tms speci. tis obsuniion is compleey
mm do ie sche,.v.  duom Zoo I or Blck H or hbe Lgan Hulu ceme. Weeds in this weion probably
e_are diminage publemn to the Loran Hul wh eme.
2°  le er o  or dpan e oOmn ioo canIb betwe tJ Boks S. C end D of the Sig Pada she    been impned uds
ye_r ha is b knw vhether te inupovemt rulll the apecificato .pniomed by he ISD Proje.
100



.1.
Second dnR; prnred I November IM
The impact of rechannelization of the navigation canal (Blocks B, C and D) and SK6
(Block C and D) is not further discussed, because they have been implemented already.
Alternatives and mitigation
The two alternatives for Simpang Pandan Block A are:
o     much higher investments to import mineral soil from outside the scheme to
built the perimeter dike (this would leave the problem of subsidence, and
add the problem of mass transportaticn); unrealistic high amounts of liming
of excavated material and farm land.
o     completely abandon the Block, persuade the few remaining inhabitants to
re-settle in other schemes under the resettlement component of ISDP, and
- restore the natural environment around the kernels of remaining primary
peatswamp forest, blending the former scheme into the surrounding forest.
This would require some investments to create gaps in the exiting perimeter
dike and control restoration.
If the main objective of the normalizaLion/rechannelization of the Lagan River is
improved drainage through riddance of water weeds, then:
o     initial mechanical clearing of the water course and subsequent weed
management,  should  be  considered   as  an   alternative  to
normalization/rechannelization. This section of the Lagan River has been
subjected to normalization twice before, and is now about 40 meter wide.
If nevertheless it is decided to continue as proposed, then:
o     transportation of excavated soil over the Lagan River to the sea2' should be
considered, to prevent acid sulphate problems on the banks and schemes.
9.10 DENDANG I and DENDANG II (JAMBI)
Annual floods inundate 6,140 hectares or 90%, more likely c. 64%22 of the twin-schemes
Dendang I (castern part) and Dendang 1I (western part). Maximum floods in the past ten
years inundated no less than 7,380 ha (114 %-779%). Therefore, in these schemes the
project focus is on flood protection, and drainage. Although the schemes are completely
isolated from the rest of the province the project also proposes roads for within-scheme
transportation.
21 Sea water bffers the cffect of acid sulpha soil.
Toa a*r of te two schanes presmed to be 6.500 wr 9.600 ha. Refreis o the cowbined are of the two schemes va1
,wen 4,500 sad 10 15 ba (rcv*e Tech;cad Rqepot 14. Table 33. pVs. and 1bid Table 2L1. p.12) with S dirrerm
101



-q                                                                 5Scond diaft; prngd I November 1992
The project proposes a dike along the Batanghari, and Dendang Rivers and parts of the
navigation canal (40.3 km  new  dike). No new  primary canals are proposed'. An,
unspecified number of unspecified2" secondary canals would be connected to each other
(total 2 km of new secondary canal). The project further proposes 38.6 -km
rechanneization of primary canals (location not specified) and 153,7 km of secondary
canals (location not specified). Impoundments and work on (new) canals involves
1,609,000 m3 of earthwork. A large number of waier control works, mostly stop-logs,
supports the proposed design.
The schemes have 1,434 ha (22%) of very deep peat soil, all located in Dendang 1. The
two schemes share 3,562 ha (55S%) of Terric tropofibrists and Terric troposaprists with
moderate acid sulphate risk (upper 120 cm) and shallow peats. The two soil sub-groups
contain on average 3-3.4% pynite in the top 120 cm, but occasionilly up to 3.7% It is
unavoidable that pyrite will be exposed during excavation work, as earthwork will go
(much) deeper than 120 cm.
Potential Impacts
o     increased flooding of the not or little'disturbed primary peatswamp forest
on the left bank of the Dendang River.
o     exposure of pyrite to oxidation and subsequent relea   of toxic exudates
and acidification of soil.
Mitigation or altematives
o     A hydraulic simulation model should investigate water displacement effects
due to the dike on the right bank of the Dendang River. The dike should be
located as far inland as feasible, to reduce discharge displacement,
particularly in the wet season.
o     excavation work (dikes, (re)channelization) should start just after the
beginning of the rain season and be completed before the last rains, to slow
oxidation and release of toxic exudates and wash exudates from the land.
9.11  DEN-DANG HI UAMBI)'
Annual floods cover 2,046 hectares or 71!% (up to 105% depending on the total surface
that ranges from 1,940 to 2,900 ha). Maximum floods affect 2,513 ha 87%(-130%). ne
project proposes a new perimeter dike of 19.7 kilometre and to rechanncl 7.8 km of
primary and 38.05 km of secondar) canals. New dikes and rechannelization involves
2} Tdchnica Repot 6 Volume I ReIke of £Eing DetaieI Desig Appjie.  1.3 p. expricily mentions dot lo primary
canab ar prupomd. Yet Tenicdal Repo_t 14 SSsD Amoist DAp& LiUr*iign Table 2.2 nenom 11.7 kin of rew
esgavalion on paunwy canals.
XC Tedoad Repod 6 volom L Appadlz 13 dona am speuy nusmeb, oust le_gth or location C(o FFgm 1-3o6 ofb report)
er  sahwok en pnmmy or qondwy cams (mewr  mcbaelauon). L1gth and v_lumes have been be calculated
from *e Cont EBntima tabls iR ;1 Volun IL
10D2



Secnd dnfuA prined 2 November 192
346,700 ml of carthwork, all from local origin or to be disposed off locally. The
proposed water management improvements will be complemented by three sluice/flap
gates.
Like Dendang I and II, Dendang IIl is completely isolated from the road network of the
province. Contrary to Dendang I and II, Dendang III lacks within scheme tarmac roads.
The project proposes to construct/upgrade 6 km of road with tarmac cover25.
The scheme is plagued by a score of obstacics to a decent living and developmnciit, though
floods rank as the single most disastrous of the problems.
The original scheme included two more primary canals (M and Q), which were
abandoned before settlement of transmigrants because of predominantly (very) deep peats.-
. Of the remaining three primary canals (from north to south: N, 0, and P), only some
40% around the first three to five secondary canals (of in total twelve) are marginally
useful for agriculture because of (very) deep peats. The last three to five secondary canals
of the primaries are in fact located in the peat swamp forest and have never been cleared
or settled.
The scheme is located on the fringe of the same large peat dome as Dendang I and II.
*The un-used canals drain the peat dome and peats seem to dry. In 1991, a large and long-
-lasting sub-soil fire destructed -much of the tree crops (rice and palawija are hardly
grown) west of the fust two secondaries.
Since 1988, not a single rice harvest and very little palawija could be grown largely
because of inundations. Yet, floods seem not to have been a problem before, according to
local farmers. Several noted the coincidence of the start of the floods with the
construction of a perimeter dike along the right bank of the Batanghari around the
Simpang Puding scheme, and some explicitly blamed that dike for their problems. This
seems not completely impossible.
Pigs, rats and Purple Swamphen (Porphyrio porphyrio) can be a problem, when there is a
harvest on the land. Most of the original transmigrants have left, leaving less than one-
third of the families. Farmers explained that they could easily handle pigs, rats and
-   Swamphens "if I have neighbours to work together w%h' and no assistance was requested.
Potential Impacts
o     the northern and western parts of the perimecer dike will go through (very)
deep peat. Dike material will be predominantly peat, and the dike therefore
permeable because of the large horizontal permeability of peat, contrasted
to its low vertical permeability.
5 MNa tha ir a*e wolu mesnem  wpuaweancsldk, *e eaaucuurawiaz or nods i tis acbe tke
auk amc. as thy wi be Good" m*.
103
_   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second draft; primed I November1992
o     the sections of the perimeter dike along the left bank of the Batanghari
River may contribute of an important bottleneck between the Dendang III
and Simpang Pandan dikes (and the dike of Rantau Rasau), which may
divert river water (and floods) to the land between Dendang I and III and
to the Kandis village on the right bank of the Batanghari, and possibly even
the pumped irrigation pilot project in Pamusiran.
Mitigation and Alterntives
The only feasible alternative seems to abandon the scheme as a resettlement target, and
persuade most of the remaining farmers to resettle to other schemes under the
resettlement component of the project (see also under Simpang Pandan, Block A).
Contrary to Block A of Simpang Pandan, this scheme seems not suitable to be restored to
a more or less natural condition. In contrast some form of land use more compatible with
the peat soils seems more feasible, e.g, pineapple, or jelutung latex.
When it is decided not to invest in improved water management, the roads would become
less viable without protection from recurrent floods.
9.12 MUARA SABAK (JAMBI)
The project has not proposed any water management infrastructural measures in Muara
Sabak' The only planned activities, 30 kilometre of pig fence and increased use of agro-
chemicals, are discussed there.
9.13 LAMBUR (JAMBI)
In Lambur, the first of thc five 'deltaic island' schemes to be discussed, floods inundate
2,852 hectares yearly (44%) but maximum floods can inundate up to 96% of the scheme.
Floods are'particularly rampant during the rain season in Block E in the north-east of the
scheme, but absent or insignificant in Blocks A and B (southern third of the scheme).
Floods in Block E would be caused by the backwater effect of the Batanghari River in the
central navigation canal during floods in the river.
It should be noted that the central navigation canal was originally dead-ended, and open to
the Batanghari only. At some time, local people have connected the dead-end of the
canal, with the head waters of a small, black water river that had its source just north of
the canal: the Simbur Naik River. The AWB team could not find out the motivation
(presumably drainage and/or navigation). It is this part of the. waterway that poses
,s   problems: it is narrow, shallow and virtually clogged with water weeds (Water Hyacinth
and an unidentified floating grass species), while the upper part of the navigation canal is
R    shallow.
Nypah vegetation along the Simbur Naik River reaches the narrow, shallow, and clogged
stretch that connects to the navigation canal. Thcrefore, salt water from the sea reaches
7
-.1.1
_ - .                                         10
-r.a  'I F



Second drfi; printed I Nove.b.r 1992
this part, despite the distance to the shore (c. ten kilometres). Yet salt intrusion is not
(yet) reported from the scheme.
Most of the scheme consists of Terric troposapnist (4,470 hectares or 69%) and 7ypic
. sulfaquent soils, containing up to 5.1% pyrite in the upper 120 cm, rendering excavation
moderately risky.
The project proposes to rechannel (mainly dredgc) a part of the navigation canal and the
adjacent clogged reach of the Simbur Naik 'rivcr' (5 k.ilometres) to improvc drainage. A
flaptsluice gate?' is planned across the Simbur Naik River to prevent inflow from the sea
during floods, yet allow regular one-way flushing of the deadlock to avoid sedimentation.
According to a simulation run of a hydraulic model, the proposed design would reduce
flood level by 35 centimetres, improve water circulation in the scheme, and increase daily
discharge through the Simbur Naik River twenzy-fold, from the current 10,000 mn/day to
200,000 m3lday
In addition, two (or eight") kilometres of new secondary canals and ten kilomnetres" of
new  tertiary canals are proposed, presumably in Blocks A and F. Finally, thirteen other
water control works would complete the proposed improvement. Total earthwork involved
- would be 90,000 ml, all local material.
P otential Impacts
o      The sluice/flap gate across the Simbur Naik River will prevent navigation
between the scheme and the coast, which would have to be diverted via the
Batanghari, or the proposed new primary canal in Pamusiran (the
navigation canal in Rantau Rasau has recently been closed with a sluice
gate), either way a considerable detour.
o      Salt water from the sea may reach the scheme, if:
-      the sluice/flap gate is not operated properly or when force-opened
for flushing to prevent sedimentation;
-      there is insufficient water pressure/discharge from  the Batanghari
River through the navigation canal. The latter largely depends on an
intricate interplay of the delay of tides.
26 ut. accompanying map at ows a a:ingular watcr clmml work, liLz a sluime gate.
Z M 14. Tab.2.2. p.16. nentions eight klamctzs of new mccndary cnals but mccondary canuls are not mntioned in TR 6
Vol L. App. 1.2 (pI), tOugh uspeirmed blenhs (e. 14 km when measured frorthe n p) a sho  in the acompanying
Fig 1.2.2 Howfver. ama cr ibe senauy cansbowa in 1i rhat ure am located In lockhA fot which it is pepoaed to
avew the canals unchanged (p.S).
In contrast. TR 6 Vol 11. App. 7. .iuioas two iutawa orE a= (- 16.000 ns ofe ardok) in the cot eatimeae s.
_Tatia  cnal. am w shown cm ap orTS Vo 2. Append. 1.2. Fg 12.2. ad n (explicily) mnenone in ext on pi.
--x  14. Tab. 22. p.16 andT 6 dVol U. App. 7. maljisten klBoassim(2. .(of -24.000). aashwm ork).
105



Second draft; pnnied I November 1992
o      If daily discharge through the Simbur Naik River would indeed increase
twenty-fold, it seems that river banks, the vegetation thereon, (marginal)
subsistence fishery in and along the river and the small village Simbur near
the coast may need extra protection.
o      Excavation of secondary, and possibly tertiary canals will probably expose
pyrite to oxidation.
Mitigation and Alternatives
o      The sluice/flap gate probably will be necessary to prevent salt intrusion
after the navigation canal and the upper reaches of the Simbur Naik River
have been rechanneled. There seems no mitigation possible or alternative
feasible, unless at very high investments (a ship lock).
o      Extra care must be taken constructing and operating this sluice. The
construction site must be careful selected to prevent seepage, etc. The floor
and sides/wings must be long enough. The operator should be well-trained
and rnotivated.
o      It seems advisable to re-run the hydraulic simulation model, and check
carefully whether the increased discharge can be handled by the lower
reaches of the Simbur Naik River.
o      All excavation should be done in the beginning and during the rain season
to prevent excessive accumulation of toxic exudates'from exposed pyrite
soils.
9.14 PAMUSIRAN (JAMBI)
No significant flooding problem  or salt intrusion have been reported in this scheme to
either BCEOM or AWB teams. Tidal irrigation seems acceptable: 15% of the land is
irrigated in the dry season (second to no other scheme in Jamnbi) and 61 % in the wet
season (second only to Simpang Puding). Only 29%  of the land has shallow peats (no
deeper peats) and the AWB team has not found signs of a PASS problem.
The project proposes a pumped irrigation pilot project in the southern half of Block A,
closest to the Batanghari River. The irrigated area is not specified but the AWB team
estimates the surface to be no more than 650 hectares. This pilot project requires a large,
15.8 kdlometres long new canal in the former Green Belt (long since cleared) between the
Lambur and Pamusiran schemes. The new canal is necessary to supply sufricient water to
the primary canals to pump into the new secondary canals. Part of the pilot project are
8.8 km of new secondary7' supp:y canals and three  ilornetres of ncw tertiary30 canals. In
2X   length is quoled frm TR 14. Tab. 2.2. p.16. bua is am _mieed -hen Me psapomi i discussed in TR6 Vol. 1- App.
1.1. thugh unspecified kenh show up in the aceiant Fipnm 1-1-I ad 1-1-5 (c. 9.5 nm when measucd an the
map). TR6 Vol. U. App. 7. mentions a ii1 Or S.W nO caCnhwrk. but does Om spery cross seCtion and length. The
quoed voume or enhwwk seem a rule bl. coeulgthat 3 km oftjisry Caw would product 42.000 at cathwork.
30   e CDmokaha  pmpal in TA Vl. 1. App. 1.1 don so weston teaay ean.hl mr do thy mbow on accompanying
ps (PIgms 1-14 and 1-1-5). Only TR 6 Vol U. App. 7. mausies Ibrew. lomebw.
106
_  



,.z l.
Second draft; pnnted I Novcmber 1992
addition the pilot schemes requires eleven pumps and forty-four off-take structures for
gravitational distribution of irrigation water on a rotation base at the tertiary level, and
twenty-six other water control works. The new canals will produce a total of 500,800 ml
of earthwork, all to be disposed of locally.
.       Feasibility of the pilot project depends on soil permeability and peaty soils should be
avoided. The new large canal requires further soil studies before a detailed design can be
attempted.
The new large canal would increase the daily discharge througk. the Pamusiran River
downstream  from  the canal elven-fold, from the current 50,000 m3/day to 550,000
m'lday, according to a simulation run with a hydraulic model.
potential Umvan
o     The new large canal would create a navigable connection to replace the
connection through Lambur and the Simbur Naik River that'will be blocked
for navigation by a sluice/flap gate.
o     If daily discharge through the Pamusiran River downstream of the canal
would indeed increase eleven-fold, it seems that river banks,- the vegetation
thereon, (marginal) subsistence fishery in and along the river and the small
-           village Pamusiran near the coast may need extra protection.
o     Oil and kerosine from the pumps may leak into irrigation water and affect
crops.
Mitigation and Altematives
o     It seems advisable to re-run the hydraulic simulation model, and check
carefully whether the increased discharge can be handled by the lower
reaches of the Pamusiran River. The effects of the proposed dikes along the
Batanghari River (Dendang III, Simpang Puding, Rantau Rasau) that may
create extra water flow after the bottleneck there should be incorporated
into the model.
o     Soil studies should be detailed enough to spot small 'peat leaks'. since
success is dependent on soil permeability.
o     Pump operators should be carefully trained and motivated.
9.15  RANTAU RASAU (JAMBI)
In this schemc, by far the largcst and seemingly the most 'prosperous' in the Jambi
project area, flooding is localized to an area close to the Batanghari River. Maximum
flooding in the last ten years has been insignificant, and annual flooding affects only 399
hectares (4%), while 36% is tidally irrigated in the wet season (1% in the dry season).
The project proposes 14.6 kilometres of new dike along the Batanghari, and along the
boundary canal between Rantau Rasau and Simpang Puding. Ihe dike is the only form of
earthwork in this scheme, requiring 171,800 ml of material, all of local origin. In
107
* .,vff a



Second dM; prinmed I Novenber 1192
addition fifty-three water control works are proposed to retain sufficient water circulation,
yet improve flood protection and waler retention in the dry season.
There are significant areas with shallow to deep peat, or with moderate pyrite risk, but
not where the dike is planned.
Potential Impacts
There are no significant potential impacts anticipated in this scheme, but see also under
Dendang III and Simpang Puding.
9.16  SIMPANG PUDING £AMBIn
Situated between the Batanghari and Berbak Rivers, flooding is an important problem in
Simpang Puding, where yearly 2,300 hectares (83-100%1') is affected. The project
proposes a perimeter dike of 22.6 kilometres. Canals have been recently improved, so no
improvements of canals are proposed. Total earthwork required in this scheme is 191,700
m3, all of local origin. In addition, forty-two water control works are proposed to regulate
the direction of the water flow in the scheme.
* Sirnpang Puding has a large area of acnive acid sulphate soils (no data but roughly
estimated at 30 40%), and shallow peats over about half the area. In fact, due to recent
work on the canals in this scheme, oxidation of exposed PASS could be observed 'in
action' on a large scale.
The situation is complicated, becuse most of a perimeter dike had been constructed prior
to the AWB team's field visiL The dike largely follows the proposed location for the
'ISDP dike', but deviates in the south-east along the Berbak River. There, the secondary
canal SK12 is impounded, contary to the proposal. Construction of the section along the
small rivers Teluk Sopan and Kemawa in the east has not started. The (collector?) drain
inside the dike between the small Kuala Pelita (north) and the Teluk Sopan (east) Rivers
still connects to secondary canal SKI, where a large gap remains in the new dike. It
could not be established whether the dike was build according to specifications proposed
under the ISDP project.
With the new dike, large, sluicelflap gates had been build across the primary canals,
possibly of the design that was considered 'not realistc in a swamp scheme such as
Simpang Puding with very soft soils".
Potential Lmpacts
Since 90% of the proposed perimeter dike exists, no further impacts are anticipated.
T1   surface Taesl ba v etden 2.3X and 5.555 be_la baut hen w mm often quoekd *ma. 2.760 ha and Mbe kal Bam in
4. >            ibe immdatoa able CMRI. Tab.62. p.91) am ued asa base
r.>                                            Jo]08



Second dmft. pnried I Noavmber 1992
it should be noted that farmers at the Dendang III scheme across the Batanghari River
explicitly blamed the new dike for their flooding problems. Several farmers stated that
floods only became a problem, after the dike around Simpang Puding had been
constructed.
The AWB has not directly spoken with 'non-ISDP farmers' living outside the proposed
impoundments along the Batanghari and Berbak. It seems that those farmers requested the
new dike to be constructed directly along the rivers (rather than on the scheme
boundaries) such that their land would bc protected too, but renegated when told Lhat they
would not be compensated for land lost to the dike.
It should further be noted that the constellation of proposed dikes along the Batanghari at
Dendang III, Simpang Puding and Rantau Rasau crcates a bottleneck just after the Berbak
splits from the Batanghari. The proposed configuration seems to reduce the overflow area
and storage capacity during floods, in fact essentially attempts to do so. As a result of the
dikes, river water normally inundating most of Dendang III and Simpang Puding and
parts of Rantau Rasau, somehow needs to find a way through, particularly in the wet
season.
A simulation run of a hydraulic model has looked into this problem, to assess the water
level upstream of Dendang III and Simpang Puding, and the flow distribution between the
Berbak and Batanghari (and Pamusiran) Rivers. It was concluded that impoundment of
Dendang III and Simpang Puding will 'have little impact on the flood behaviour" and
only 'results in an increase of the maximum water level of 10 cn at Puding, 6 cm at the
Berbak confluence, and 4 cm at the BAT-4 gauging station' (BAT-4 station is located
near Rantau Panjang, some twenty kilometres upstream of Puding).
The *figures need to be handled with cawion. they result from a rough modelling of the
system wirh liettl accurate [reliable topographical] data [on river bank levels).
Mitigation and altematives
o     the hydraulic model simulation needs to be re-run with more accurate and
reliable topographic data. This will probably require a separate study.
9.17 KAPUAS II & II} (W KALIMANTAN - WESTERN SUB-PROJECI)
The project proposes the increase of the crest height of the perimeter dike with an
averaoe of 1.4 m, to protect this tidal scheme from inundation from the sea. This work
will stretch over a total length of 13,050 m and 16,500 m for Kapuas III and lI
respectively.
Potential Impacts
Although none of the 20 Technical Reports give details about the exact locations of the
upgrading of the perimeter dike on Kapuas III (total length about 30 km), all potential
-~~~~~~~~~~-
'109
> _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Second dnft; prnnted I November 1I92
sections cover PASS soils with low levels of pyrite (composite of all soil horizons up to
1.2 m depth). However, pyrite concentrations higher than 2.4% are to be expected if
materials are taken from soil depths deeper than 'A m  .
Kapuas II has more PASS soils with higher pyrite levels; but composite levels are still
well below 2.4%. LocallY, in particular along the Sungai Berembang (primary Jeruju
Besar), Sungai Kakap/Sungai Jawi and Sungai Jeruju sub-soil layers have composite pyrite
concentrations of over 3.3%, which after oxidation will release toxic levels of effluent.
However, negative impacts from the release of high amounts of acid and toxic minerals
like iron and aluminum are not expected to further degrade the aquatic environment or
terrestrial vegetation. Most fish species recorded during the field visit of the team are
those adapted to a wide range of habitats; and no natural vegetation or wildlife will likely
be affected by temporarily changes in the water quality. Experiences i- other PASS soil
development areas learn that if any fish kill occur, the effects on fisheries are only
temporary due to quick influx of new fish from adjoining waters. Also, due to proximity
to the sea, effluent released will be buffered by brackish water if sufficient flushing will
be guaranteed.
The proposed improvements in the water control structures is expected to have a positive
impact on the agricultural lands which now show high levels of salt in the soil matrix. A
decrease in the salinity leveIs of the canals on the schemes might change the aquatic
habitat, rich in brackish water fish and prawn. As several families make a modest living
from captive fisheries in the canals, mainly catching Freshwater Prawn.
Major project impact anticipated is of a socio-economic nature. The 29 km of earthwork
will cut through residential and agricultural land. People interviewed supported the idea of
hydrological improvements but had not yet been fully consulted about the actual
earthworks on their land. This could lead to resentments considering the project.
SaOleguard and Mitigation
All carthworks should be preceded by consultation with the inhabitants of the scheme
about the impacts to their agricultural land or settlements. Compensation costs should
only be made in case of disproportional destruction of their crops.
During and at least three months after major earthwork have been done, al} adjoining
canals should be regularly flushed to avoid a build-up of effluent from the exposed PASS
soil materials. The best season for this would be the rainy season when sufficient
quantities of surface water are available. More details are disLussed in section 7.2.1.
The perimeter dikes along the Kapuas river and sea are separated from these waters by a
zone of swampy land, broad about 100-200 meters. This area has a very degraded
mangrove vegetation, with human occupation spread along it length. For several reasons
this land should be left and managed as a greenbelt. Protection of the dike against coastal
erosion should be guaranteed by removal of all settlements and agricultural activity at the
seaward side. People could be provided compensation for losses of agricultural land
l.sewhere at the schemes.
110
, _. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
..r



S
Second draft; primed I Noavmber 1992
9.18  JAWI AND KALMAS (W KALIMANTAN - WESTERN SUB-PROJECT)
A total of about 23.350 m of perimeter dike for flood protection will be raised in crest
height, in Jawi I, II and m, and Kalimas block P, B, C and DE. This work will involve
digging of about 105,670 nm of earth.
Existing dikes along the coast and the Punggur Kecil are bordered on the seaward side by
degraded Nipah riparian vegetation backed by mangroves.- Most other sections of the
perimeter dikes run through agricultural land, with a collector drain on the inland sidc of
the dike.
Of particular interest is the location of the coastal dikes in Jawi I and II were degradation
of mangroves has led to erosion and finally breaking of the perimeter dike at Jawi IIL
Potential Imp=
The main environmental issue to deal with is the occurrence of PASS soils along the route
of the perimeter dikes.
Soil analysis show that 'Typic Sulfaquents' soils with pyrite concentrations up to 3.2%
(composite of first 120 cm) occur in Jawi and Kalimas. About 20% of the earthworks on
the perimeter dikcs cover this type of soil. See for exact locations the appended
Environmental Issues map (Map 4C). This caEls for special attention during and after the
rehabilitation of the dikes. To make things worws: this type of soil is composed of soil
horizons (25-50 cm) with pyrite concentrations up to 7.5%, able to release excessive
amounts of acid and toxic metals like iron and aluminum after oxidation. Earthworks wiHl
also include soils of the 'Haplic Sulfaquents' type with pyrite up to 4.3%  at 25-50  cm
depth.
Similar to the othcr coastal sites discussed above no serious negative impact is anticipated
to fish and wildlife. Acidity and other effluent, however, will reach toxic levels locally
during and after the earthworks take place.
A clear example of the effect of PASS soils is found in Kalimas Block P, were dikes
were rehabilitated in 1990 because of subsidence due to peaty underground. Today these
dike are still devoid of any vegetation regrowth. But, water quality in most collector
drains and canals did not show high acid levels (pH 5-6) as exprcssed in a varied aquatic
plant and fish life. Presumably this is because the buffering effect of tidal brackish water
from the Punggur Kecil river flushing these canals daily.
Safeguards and Miti,ation
Negative impacts to water quality locally caused by PASS soils can be strongly reduced
7    by rerular flushing of the collector drains and canals during and after (up to three
months) the earth works take place. The best water to use for this is the tidal brackish
inflow which should be drained on the other side of the schemes. It is up to a hydrologist
to design a system for effective flushing.
The ongoing degradation of the coastal mangroves of Jawi I and III, and of the riparian
vegetation along the waterways on the schemes, like the Punggur Kecil river gives doubt
about the sustainability of the proposed dike improements. Increased consultation with
,, .-                          ~~~~~~~~~111
- LS



.
Second dnft; puinmed I Notvmber 1992
the local population about function and maintenance of dikes, including protective
greenbelts has to improve the awareness and social control regarding infringements.
Proper mapping and delineation of greenbclt boundaries should also assist in this.
Public Works as the main beneficiary should take more responsibility in managing these
greenbelts, which means more manpower and capital investments.
9.19 BETUTU (W KALIMANTAN - WESTERN SUB-PROJECT)
Also for the Bctutu scheme it is proposed to increase the crest height of the perimcter
dikes of both blocks (north and south). The work will be done over the total length of the
12,000 m long dikes, with a volume of about 58,800 m3 soil to be worked.
Wildlife habitat is restricted to the riparian vegetation along the main water courses and
supports smaller mammals like Small-clawed Otter, squirrels and birds. Former existing
populations of Proboscis Monkey have already disappeared. In particular this was said to
be related to the recent clearing of forest at the scheme Selat Kering (non-ISDP), south of
Betutu.
Potential Impacts
About 80% of the route of the dikes in the northern and southern blocks have soils with a
composite pyrite content (up to 120 cm depth) of 2.9 - 3.4%, which classifies these soils
a moderate PASS soils. Earthworks at this scheme will probably lead to lower
concentrations of effluent release (per volume) than at Kalimas and Jawi, but the
significantly larger extent of PASS soils will result in much larger total volumes of acid
and toxic metals released to the surface waters.
The less developed drainage system at the scheme might hamper sufficient water flow to
flush the canals during and after the earthwork takes place. Especially the collector drains
along the dikes will build up unacceptable levels of effluent if not regularly flushed,
which will make this water unsuitable for agricultural and houschold use. The already low
production levels of rice paddy will be further decreased if effluent enter these lands via
surface water. Much less problems with water quality are anticipated in the larger rivers
along the perimeter of the scheme, like Punggur Kecil, Sungai Nyirih, and the Selat
Kering river.
Safeguards and Mitigation
No possibilities exist at Betutu to use nearby soils with a lower pyrite content as
altemative dike material. Also flushing possibilities of the collector drains are restricted.
It is therefore advised that in addition to the regular flushing of surface wvaters at the
i    sch_me during and after (up to at least three months) the rehabilitation of dikes, worik will
be done during the rainy season, when sufficient amounts of freshwater are available to
avoid intrusion inland.
The same applies for the riparian forests as explained in the section on Jawi and Kalimas,
in order to improve the protection and management of the greenbelts.
112



-
Second draft. pnntud I November 1992
9.20  RASAU JAYA I, II & m  (W KALIMANTAN - EASTERN SUB-PROJECT)
Proposed project activities at these schemes will be restricted to the upgrading of water
control structures, potable water supply and the upgrading of the road system. No new
road routes will be developed, but existing earth-roads will be paved or otherwise
improved. On the Environmental Issues map (Map 4C) can be seen that road development
will not cross any PASS soils of importance to an environmenial evaluation. Technical
problems will occur at some stretches with peat.soils.
Potential Impacts
Of more importance is the present degradation of the peat swamp forests east and north of
Rasau Jaya 1. Years of extraction of logs by transmigrants have degraded these forests to
such extent that present. tree crown coverage is less than 30%. Plans for extra
transmigration settlements in these forests have been cancelled because of too deep peat
layers (up to 3 m). However, recent initiatives of local people has led to the demarcation
and opening up of extra land for agriculture in these forests.
Forests along the Punggur Besar river towards the next scheme Sci Bulan, including the
above mentioned lands, are classified as Production Forest (see appended Land
Use/Forest Status map, Map 4B). RePPProT (1987) proposed to extend this status to
include all forest land between the Kapuas and Punggur rivers, in order to conserve forest
resources and to avoid negative impacts from development of deep peat areas.
Present developments have (and still are) led to the total destruction of the peat swamp
forests. Deep peat soils in the Rasau Jaya schemes has forced transmigrants to search for
off-farm income due to failing agriculture (interviews with inhabitants of RJ.I. Formerly.
agriculture on Rasau Jaya was more successful than at Rasau Jaya II, but this has
radically changed today now peaty-clay top soils are disappearing and much less fertile
silicate sands and PASS-soils come to the surface. This process will be repeated by the
farners who open-up the forests off-site of Rasau Jaya I and eventually will force them to
leave the area.
Safeguards and Mitigation
No direct mitigation is required related to impacts of proposed project activities.
However, off-side forest resources should be better managed. All schemes in West
Kalimantan will get problems with the supply of firwood and construction wood in the
near future. Rasau Jaya is no exception to this, in particular in relation to the high
population density of these schemes.
The ISDP project could look into possibilities to establish multipurpose tree plantations
around the margins of the schemes. Trees are best suited as a crop to the extremes
conditions of peat land. The design of these plantings and the proposed establishment of a
perimeter pig fence should be integrated in such way that they maximize the effect of pest
managemenL More details about mitigation of the pig problem are givcn in section 7.4.1.
9.21  SEI RADAK (W KALIMANTAN - EASTERN SUB-PROJEC7)
113



Second daft; prinrad 1 Naqnbcr 199I
Main problems hampering agricultural development at this site are the deep yearly floods,
insufficient water circulation in the primary canal and deep peat and PASS soils. The
project proposes to build a total of 16,150 m flood protection dikes, rechannelizing 9,800
m of tertiary canals, and the installation of 104 water control structures in tertiary canals.
The total earth work will have an estimated volume of 296,700 mn3 soil. Exact details
about project components and locations of potential impacts are given on the Project
Activities map (Map 4A'and Map 4C respectively).
This sche:me is one of the least successful schemes, with only 40% of the avai!-b1c land
under cultivation. Annual change in population amounts up to -7%/year since the first
settlements were. started. in 1984. Sei Radak Unit IL, situated east of the pr.mary canal
was settled in 1986. Serious soil problems have l;ept the transmigrants from opening any
LU2 land. This area is now completely overgrown with shrubs, like Macaranga and the
fern Steanochea palmurns. Because of the large areas of overgrown unproductive land
wild pig are a serious pest problem.
The scheme is at close proximity to forest land, with a very large area of logged-over
peat swamp forest at the east, and with the margins. of tidal swamp forests along the Sei
Radak to the south. It was Teported however, that-at least 50% of the available work
force at the site is being employed working for sawmill and logging operations.
The forests directly bordering the scheme are officially classified as Unclassified Land.
The Regional Physical Planning Programma for Transmigration (RePPProT, 1987
however strongly recommended to include these valuable forest resources under
Production Forest and Protection Forest Status (tidal swamp land along the S. Radalc). In
particular this latter habitat with a transition between freshwater and brackish water
swamps is expected to harbour precious populations of the Storm's Stork (Ciconia stonni)
which is endangered worldwide.
Potential Impacts
No negative environmental effects are predicted related to PASS soils with critical
concentrations of pyrite.
A bigger problem is the large amount of uncleared land at both units which at Sei Radak
Unit nl has led to serious pig problems. About 85% of these lands have peat with depths
up to 2.5 m, which is keeping the farmers from clearing (a second time) these lands for
agriculture. Clearly the project should pay attention to pest management to assist the
farmers. However, even with a successful programma the farmers are left with less
optimal soil conditions and lack of manpower and capital for technical investments to
make agriculture successful.
Also swamp forest adjoining the schcme on the south and east are negatively impacted by
inhabitants of the scheme, who collect logs and other forest products at unsustainable
levels. Though large forest reserves remain the fauna is surprisingly poor in species, with
most abundant Bearded Pig, Wild Pig and Sambar Deer. Hunting and habitat degradation
is accounted for this.
114



Second dnfa; pfinted I November 1992
Safeguard and Miti,ation
The management of the forest adjoining the scheme should be improved to the benefit of
the population and the forestry objectives set by the Ministry of Forestry.. Firstly, forest
land status indicated as 'Unclassified' would have to be changed into Production Forest
status to allow for more sustainable types of forest management. The inhabitants at the
scheme need more alternatives for off-farm income, in particular now forcst resources
(logs) are running out of stock. Sei Radak is nearly devoid of any larger tree vegetalion
around the agricultural and settlement areas (LUI), giving serious doubts about the future
wood supply. Wetland forests along the upper watershed of the Sei Radak river need to
be protected as proposed by the Regional. Physical Planning Prograrnma for
Transmigration (RePPProT, 198.
A possible option to stabilize land-use around the scheme, to raise income for the
inhabitants and to improve the forestry sector including conservation is the development
of community forestry activities on-site on the deep peat lands and to establish tree
plantations as a buffer-zone along the scheme. Design and location of the proposed pig
fence could be adapted to these forestry activities.
9.22 SEI NIPAH (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT)
Sei Nipah is a scheme with serious flooding problems throughout the year. To upgrade
this site a total of 74,550 m of dikes and 15,400 m collector drains will be build. The
project will also rechannel 33,000 m of existing canals. Total earthworks will move an
estimated 592,950 m3 soil, which ranks this site as number one for West Kalimantan.
The natural peat swamp forests south-east of the scheme have been logged twice in the
past and only wild pig, Sambar Deer, Long-tailed Macaque and Silvery Leaf-monkey do
still occur here in low numbers. The area was reported to be rich in Small-clawed Otter
which often in large groups visit the blocks along the Punggur Besar river. Pigs were not
identified as a pest problem by the farmers.
Potential Impacts
Clearly local soil conditions have to be evaluated for potential environmental problems
during the project. However, no chemical analysis have been made of the PASS soils
occurring on the scheme to assess the amount of pyrite (TR 4, vol. II). Instead soil data
have been used from feasibility studies done in 1975 (UGM). This report indicates the
following types of PASS soil as extremely acid: Typic Sulfihemist and Typic Sulfihemist.
These soils cover about 1000 ha (40% of the scheme). Most problems due to the exposure
of pyrite arc anticipated for the earthworkl along the primary canal in the northern block
1    (along the Pungour -Besar) and alcing Lhe dike planned along the same main river (northern
block).
T-he area has a brackish water cnvironment which to a certain level will buffer any toxic
levels of the effluent released by the PASS soils. However, study of the drainage system
show that not much possibilities exist (by tide) to flush the scheme because only one
connection exists with the tidal Punggur Besar river.
115
I



Second draft: prirned I November I992
: TThe physical impact of earthworks to the vegetation is low as most of the scheme is
devoid of any natural vegetation. Only some coconut and banana groves will be effected
by the proposed work. The value of the greenbelt along the Punggur Bear river will not
be impacted as the perimeter dike will is planned to be located at least 200 rn inland from
the river.
Safeguard and Mitigation
To avoid the build-up of toxic levels of effluent in the collector drains sufficient flushing
should be guaranteed. With the.present design of drainage this can only be achieved by
opening the (new) feocement flap gates along the secondary canals during low tide in
the rainy season, when sufficient precipitalion is available. Machinery can easily be
brought in during the rainy season on pontoons via the canals.
9.23 ARUS DERAS (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT)
Project activities in this scheme will be restricted to raising the crest height of the existing
dike along the primary canal, provision of drinking water via a pressed water pipeline
from the Amnbawang Mountains and building of flap gates in all secondary canals. This
scheme will be discussed also in relation to the forest resources south of the site and the
water catchment area in the Ambawang Mountains.
The area has been unsuccessful with a low annual production of rice due to floods and
possibly due to the effects of cxposed PASS soils (50% of the area). Pigs originating
from the surrounding degraded swamp lands and adjoining forests constitute a serious pest
for crops like maize, young coconut, tuber-crps, peanuts, etc. As a result more than
14% of the families have left the scheme yearly, since the first establishment in 1983.
Many of the male population has found off-farm income in logging. In addition large
areas of swamp forests have been cleared for agriculture in the area south of the scheme
along the Arus Deras river (Sci Kiri and Sci Kanan). The cleared area stretches until the
foothills of the Ambawang Mountains where farners from  former unsuccessful
transmigrant projects (1950's) south of Pontianak have successfui;y started a new village
with rice paddy cultivation.
Potential Impacts
Although soil maps indicate large areas of PASS, no negative impacts are anticipated
related to earthworks due to the rcstricted scale of this and the general low concentrations
of pyrite.
Of more importance are the developments Qff-site were large areas of new agricultuWal
land are being developed and remaining peat swamp forests are stripped of any
markesable logs. These forest are rich in fauna like Proboscis Monkey (protected by law),.
Pig-tailed Macaque, Sambar Deer, Kantjil, Bearded Pig and Wild Pig. Clearing of this
forest has advanced up to the first hills of the Ambawang Mountains, which is the only
location in the ISDP project area with potable white water resources. Ironically all these
116



-_...:
Second draft; prinld I November 1992
lowland and hill-forests of the Arus Deras catchment area are classified as Conversion
Forest and Unclassified Land.
The original Detailed Design of this project plans to build two pressed-water pipeline
systems from the source of the Arus Deras and Air Putih rivers to the schemes Sei Nipah,
Arus Deras, Pinang Luar, Pinang Dalam and Air Putih. Additional road are planned from.
the schemes along these two rivers up to the first hills.
Records were made during fieldwork about the extraction of largc trees from the hill
forests of these mountains. These steep faced mountains consist of intrusivc granitic rock
on which shallow soils have developed. It is anticipated that any further degradation of
these water catchment forests Oill inevitable lead to drying up of the two rivers planned
to be exploited for potable water.
The project also proposrs the support to the additional settlement of 125 households at the
scheme. Present developments on and around the scheme however indicate that this very
likely would add to the negative impacts transmigrants have on the remaining forest
resources. It should first be proven that the scheme with its ?resent population will
improve in its success of agriculture and that further clearing of forests and extraction of
logs will stop.
Safeguard and Mitigation
Uncontrolled clearing of liand and logging off-ste of the scheme should be stopped
immediately, in particular around the catchment area of the Arus Deras and Air Putih
rivers in the Ambawang Mountains. Developments induced by the construction of the
road along the Arus Deras river towards source of the Arus Deras river in the mountains
should be strictly monitored.
In addition to the proposed flood protection measures possibilities could be evaluated to
stabilize land-use by officially ailocating 'new land' to those farmers of the scheme who
still remain with unproductive land after project implementation. Ideally this 'new land'
should be located on already cleared sites dose to the scheme (outside the flooding zone).
For the moment, no extra settlements should be allowed at the Arus Deras scheme.
A clear zoning of land-use has to be developed, detailing areas to be strictly protected,
including all forests of the Ambawang Mountains, areas for rice paddy, and areas for
sustainable types of forest exploitation. A project like ISDP should much more than
present assist the farmers in non-agricultural types of income, like community forestry
and the establishment of tree crop plantations. The proposed options for stabilizing land-
use and to stop further misuse of the forcsts have to be preceded by including the
Ambawang Mountains under Protection Forest status by the'Department of Forestry.
9.24 AIR PUTIH (W KALJMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECTI)
Not much project activities are proposed for the Air Putih scheen. Of environmental
sign;ficance is the development of a pressed-water pipeline system, with potable water to
117
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



S.sond dnft; prinmd I Noavnbgr 19M
be extracted at the source of the Air Putih river in the Ambawang Mountains. Also here a
road is planned to be built along this pipeline up to the mountains. Potable water will be
collected in a concrete tank in the mountains at 40 m altitude. The Department of Public
Works is also repairing a wcir at the samne location, which is planned to divert water for
irrigation of rice paddy east of the scheme. The debit of the,spring to be tapped for
drinking water has been estimated to vary' between 2 and 25 lls. No mentioning is made
to what extent the extraction of irrigation water (planned, weir) and potable water (ISDP)
do influence each other in water discharge.
All criginal forests bordering the Ambawang Mountains on the south have been cleared
for agriculture by the local people (Dayak, Chinese 'and Malayu). However, these
communities have much more problems with floods and pigs than the neighboring the
ISDP scheme, resulting in large areas of unproductive 'wasteland'. Local people reported
the steep decline in wildlife numbers after the establishment of the transmigration scheme.
During fieldwork records were made of logging' of the forests on the Ambawang
Mountains. This operation (at least the one we found) is organized by locals living in the
village at the foot of the mountains (outside the scheme).
Potential Impact
No direct environmental impacts are anticipated related to project activities. However,
road development and present off-scheme exploitation of the surrounding forests, could
lead to the degradation of the catchment of the Arus Deras river.
Safeguard and Mitigation
Developments induced by the construction of the road from the scheme to the mountains
should be monitored. In paricular water supply for consumption and irrigation should be
guranteed by strict protcstion of the catchment of the Air Putih and Arus Derag rivers.
Upgrading of the hill forests of the Ambawang mountains to Protection Forest should be
discussed by the project with the Ministry of Forestry.
The existing pest problems with pigs will be dealt'with as discussed in section 7.4.1.
9.25 PINANG LUAR (IV KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT)
Part of the existing detailed design has already been implemented. The present project
proposes further improvements to the waterprotection system, induding the impoundment
of the southern secondary canal. Also a mew collector drain will be made along the
;tAmct.tr dike alonsg the Punggur Besar River. Total carthworks will move about 126,000
m3 soil.
The area consists of Block A (western) and block B (eastern). Block A falls short in
agricultural success compared to Block B because of deep peat occurring. Large areas of
unproductive degraded peat land occur on the margin of Block B. The scheme is bordered
on the south by a large area of degraded logged-over peat swamp forest Pigs are a pest
problem to the farmers operating south of the primary canal. A large ara planted with
118



Second dmft; pinted I November 1992
hybrid coconut palms was destroyed by wild pigs, even with the wooden fence built
around the site. Some people hunt pigs regularly and sell these on Pontianak markets.
Due to constant crop failure the original transmigrants of Block A left their land and have
been replaced later by local (spontaneous) settlers. It was reported that large numbers of
young people did work outside the scheme in jobs such as on sawmills, logging and even
find did so in Malaysia.
Extra settlemcnts (150 houscholds) arc planned to be supported by this project.
Potential Impa=
No direct negative impacts will develop from the proposed project activitiesL PASS soils
do only occur at a restricted scale, and pyrite concentrations are low. The pig problem is
serious and should be tackled immediately. The proposed design of this component is
further discussed under section 7.4.1.
Off-site impacts related to remaining forest resources are similar to those discussed for
the other sites.
The extra settlements are planned for Block A, lands which are now only marginally
suitable for permanent cultivation, like treecrops. With the present environmental situation
it seems wise to wait with these settlement until-it has been fully proven that available
lands are suitable for rice cultivation, and moreover that land is still available for this.
Safeguards and Mitigation
Forest resources south of the scheme are classified as Conversion Forest (close to
Ambawang Mountain) and as Unclassified. This however does not mean that these
resources would be allowed to be misused for any purpose. In particular Conversion
Forests, if converted to other types of land-use, should remain productive in the sense of
economies. It is generally kmown that the most optimal type of land-use on peat lands is
to keep a forest vegetation. This could be natural types of forest or plantations of
treecrops. Marginal suitable land with moderate to deep peat are found at the margin of
this scheme, which could be developed irto more productive types of land-use. Also
inhabitants need to diversify crop production to sustain their income in times of excessive
drought, floods, plant diseases or other natural impacts. The present conditions prove this
point. This is why possibilities should be evaluated by the local government, supported by
the ISDP project to develop forestry activities on and along this scheme.
9.26 PINANG DALAM (>V KALDIANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT)
This scheme has some flood problems in Block A and B for which the project proposes to
build a total of 3700 m impoundments along the primary and secondary canals (for exact
position see Map 4A, Project Activities). This includes the upgrading. of the canal system
up to a total of 48,740 min earthworks.
Only about 42 9 of the scheme is presently under cultivation with large areas under
unproductive fem or shrub peat land. See Map 4B (Land Use/Forest Status) for more
119



w  '    -
Second drafl; pried I November 1992
.   n    j details. In particular Block A and the abandoned land north of this block are 100%
*  _ fs ,¢.- covered with this type of vegetation. Main reasons for this are the deep peats, yearly bush
fires and the pig pest problems. As a result a population decline at an average of 8% a
. -year has occured since the establishment of the first transmigration settlements. Very
progressed plans exist (which will continue independent of the ISDP project) to settle 120
extra households on these problem lands. Ironically the design places settlements at the
alluvial soils closes to the river and alloates agriculture for the deep peat lands along the
pnmary ca:nal.
Potntial npa
Earthwork will hit PASS soils of the Sulfic Fluvaquents type, which widely occurs along
the riverside of Block B. Although composite levels (first 120 cm soil profile) give only
2.2% pyrite, concentrations are found up to 7% for soil horizons deeper than 50 cm.
Given the restricted scale of operations no impact of significance is expected.
Vegetation. along the Kubu river is well developed and relatively less disturbed then
elsewhere with some populations of Proboscis Monkey (protected) and Silvered Leaf-
monkey, using this vegetation as feeding and resting habitat. Building of the dike along
the river and the extra planned settlements might lead to a further decrease in suitable
habitat for thesc monkey populations. Considering the overall degradation of riparian
forest along the major rivers at the ISDP project area, every additional impact by the
project should be avoided to support wildlife and to protect against erosion.
Problems observed with the management of the remaining forest resources west of the
scheme are similar to those discussed for Pinang Luar, Air Putih, Sei Nipah and Arus
Deuas.
Safeguard and Mitigation
The planned flood protection dike along the Kubu river should be located at least 100 m
inland from the river. This is in accordance with the Presidential Degree No. 32/1990,
ArticIe 16, concerning the establishment of a protective greenbelt along all rivers in
Indonesia.-
The existing pig problem and proposed establishment of a fence will is discussed in
section 7.4.1.
Inhabitants of this scheme have and certainly still do benefitted from the extraction of
|   forest products off-site. However, times have oDme that these are nnning short because
1 of seious misuse of the forests. The issue raised related to the management of the forest
resources off-site should be handled similar to the above discussed schemes situa!ed along
the Ambawanc Mountains.
9.27  JANGKANG I (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECT)
Planned earthworks in this scheme are restricted to the recanalization of 4650 m of
primary and tertiary canals to improve the water circulation. The scheme is only for 51 %
culdvated, has more than 700 ha of deep peat and 668 ha of PASS soils. The large extent
120



4..
Second draft; printcd I Novcmber 1992
of shrub peat land and the adjoining peat swamp forests (degraded) to the east of the site
support a large population of pigs who regularly raid the farmland for food.
This year (1992) 100 and 200 new transmigrant families have been settled in Jangkang IlI
and Jangkang II respectively. Which is consideably more than the planned 50 families
under ISDP.
Potential Impact
Earthworks at the canals will hardly have any environmental impacts other than the
physical destruction of border vegetation: This however is acceptable in this disturbed
agricultural environment.
Of more concern are the extra settlements which will add to the pressure on the remaining
forest resources. Reports were reived from the scheme that peopk extract logs from
these forests, which are classified as Unclassified Land. However, nothing can be said
about the scale of these exploitations.
Safeeuards and Mitigation
No particular safeguards are needed for projeat implementation. The forestry sector
however should be studied to identify present and future needs for construction and
firewood on the scheme. Given the increase in peat depth going east of the scheme, best
land-use options for the near future are those with a permanent tree cover. The ISDP
project should discuss this matter with the local authorities for follow-up.
Te activides related to the pig problem are detailed in section 7.4.1.
9.28 OLAK-OIAK KUBU (W KALIMANTAN, EASTEtRN SUB-PROJECT)
Main environmental aspects to consider for this scheme is the construction of 6950 m of
flood protection dikes and 3500 m - recanalization of tertiary canals to improve the
draining of these lands. This involves a total of 147,300 n3 soil work.
Although contradictionary to the information extracted from the Technical Reports the
scheme appeared to be quite successful in agriculture. But pig and rats were reported to
impact crop production. Today more than 75%, of the area is under cultivation, even with
the identified'764 ha of pyritic soils and deep peat in the north-east of this scheme.
Forest resources north of the scheme are restricted to :a small degraded zone directly
bordered to the north by the Jangkang 11 and III schemes.
A bridge and a connecting road have been built by the Ministry of Transmigration at the
castern border, connecting this scheme with the Terentang 11 and III schemes (non-ISDP,
east of the scheme). It was reported that additional settlements (250 households) would be
located along this new road. Study of the soil map as well- as field visits reveal the
occurrence of peat soils up to 1.50 m depth at these same lands.
Poental Umrn
121
)                                                             a



Second dmft; prinmed I Novcmber 1992
Although the soil studies of the Technical reports do not provide analytical data on pyrite
content of the PASS soils occurring, several sections of the earthworks are planned in
PASS soils identified as extremely acid. These include Typic Sulfihemist soils. As a result
toxic effluent will be released during and after the building of dikes in the eastern section
of the scheme. However, aquatic environments like the Terentang River (Arowana fish !)
are not expected to be impacted by these earthworks because of the existing rate of
-disturbance and small scale of earthworks planned.
Safeguards and Mitigation
*No mitigation is needed.
9.29 DESA KUBU (W KALIMANTAN, EASTERN SUB-PROJECI)
-     Main problem of this scheme is the salt water intrusion in the northern section (with a
perimeter dike) because of repeated dike breach at three locations.
The project proposes to repair this dike and to rechannel 2500 m of existing tertiary
* canals and to make a collector drain along the castem perimeter dike. This will involve a
total of 185,100 nr3 earthworks. The project also proposes to support the extra settlement
of 75 families.
j:    After the establishment of the original drainage system by Public Works (before 1983) it
*:    appeared that at least 1/3 of the area drained could not be successfully reclaimed from the
mnangroves, which today have been regenerating to a healthy forest, intersected by the
former canals.
The existing perimeter dike off the three locations of dike breach is located on swampy
land in the middle of mangrove vegetation. This area is daily inundated by the tidal
movement of the nearby sea, which apparently is of sufficient force to repeatedly destroy
1    the dike. It was also found that the planned perimeter collector drain has already been
implemented and appeared to be a broad and deep canal closely rocated to the dike. This
design might also add to undermining the structure of the flood protection dike.
Of particular interest in this scheme are the mangroves which border the site- on the south
-    and the remaining peat swamp forests (logged-over) north-east of the settlements. The
scheme itself was measured to be cultivated for a maximum of 50%, with agriculture
hampered by saline intrusion and the occurrence of PASS soils south of the Sungai Terus
river.
The mangrove and Nipah swamps along the Sci Radak Runtung river are part of the
largest remaining tidal swamp forest of West Kalimantan. These forcsts large 108,000;ha
(Selat Pandang Tikar) are of high importance to typical wildlife of Kalimantan swamps
like Proboscis Monkey and Storm's Stork (both protected by law), and as nursery and
breeding side for fish and prawn species, including many of commercial value. These
forest have been proposed to be included under Protection Forest status by the Regional
Physical Planning Programma for Transmigration (RePPProl). 1989). For more details
see the appended Land Use/Forest Status map (Map 4B) and section 5.2. 1.
122



Second dsft; primed I November 1992
Poenfal Impacts
No high pyritic PASS soils will be crossed during earthworks. However, serious doubt is
expressed concerning the sustainability of dike repairs. The location of some parts of the
dike and the tidal action have proven in the past to repeatedly undermine the dike due to
abrasion. Also part of the scheme within the perimeter dike has a healthy mangrove
vegetation which bettcr would be protected to support local fisheries. Further technical
studies should determine if the dike could be relocated more inland on lcss swampy land.
Many local settlements are found along the Kubu and Terentang nvers and including the
swamp development settlements appear to be rapidly expanding in area (see the appended
Land Use/Forest Status map, Map 4B). Nearly all greenbelts along these rivers are
degraded, including those in the estuary of the Kubu river. Mangrove forest in the
estuarine swamps of Selat Padang Tikar were found to have been logged at large scale,
even with large parts already included under Protection Forest status. Given the high
importance of these swamps for captive fisheries steps should be taken by the local
government to protect these forests from further spontaneous developments.
Safeguard and Mitigation
To avoid continued breach of the perimeter dike, resulting in serious saline intrusion of
agricultural land, possibilities should be studied to relocate the southern section of the
dike more inland.
Responsibility should be taken by the ISDP project in deviloping management of the
forest resources off-site, as a large area of mangroves is located in or close to the
scheme. A project aimed at poverty alleviation of swamp development sites should look
into the benefits and possibilities for protection or sustainable exploitation of natural
swamp lands like mnangroves.
9.30  SEI BULAN (W KALMANTAN - EASTERN SUB-PROJECI)
The development of this area is seriously hampered by the seasonal flooding from the
Punggur Besar river and the Sei Bulan river and its upstream catchment area. Water also
enters the fields along the primary canals in Block A and B. In addition wild pig raids
along the forested boundaries are a big problem. About half of Blocks A and B, and the
whole of Block C have not been cleared from the peat swamp forest, -and vegetation is
contiguous with the forests extending north up to the Kapuas river (± 15 km away). Very
deep peat (up to 7 m) is found at Block C and the uncleared part of Block B.
a The scheme is characterized by the high number of people which are forced to find a
living in off-farm work, in particular logging.
-      The proect proposes to build 20.2 km of dike along the primary canals and as perimeter
dike starting in Block C, along the Punggur Besai, along the Sei Bulan river and up to the
,end of 40e eastern canl no 12 in Block A. Estinmt   volumes of earthwork give a total
e-dof ot,40e e. It is not dear  om the Technical Revports if the t wtiaries gno   a I (est)
-                           ~~~~~~~~~~123



Second drft; prnted I Nawmber 1991
and no 12 (east) will be rehabilitated to function as collector drain along the perimeter
dike.
Most larger logs have been extracled from the formsts north of the scheme and new
agricultural land is being opened along the Sei Bulan river north of Block A. Forest
degradation in the catchment of the Sci Bulan river has decreased the buffer function of
these peat swamps, resulting in higher peak flows and flooding dowristream.
Though degraded, these forcst are still worth to be protected from further exploitation,
also in relation to the wildlife occurring. Four species of monkey live here, including
Proboscis Monkey (protected by Indonesian law), Long-tailed Macaque, Pig-tailed
Macaque and Silvered Leaf-monkey.
Potential lm2act
All earthwork will take place on the scheme itself without touching any peat swamp
forests. Composite pyrite levels classify the soils as low risk PASS soils. However,
locally along the planned dikes, Typic Sulfohemist PASS soils occur with 5.3% pyrite at
the top soil layer. In particular the impounding of the primary canal and along the
Punggur Besar river, both in Block B will expose these PASS soils to oxidation. The
overall environmental impact to agriculture and the water quality of the canals is
estimated to be low.
Of higher importance is the negative impact of logging on the surrounding forest reserves.
With present rates of degradation no productive forest will remain as required by its
official status (Production Forest).
Agricultural land development along the Sci Bulan river degrades the existing green belt
along its borders, which will increase the danger that the planned dike will be eroded
away in the near future.
If floods can be contained after the proposed hydrological improvements, agriculture will
.be more succesfull, which on its turn might attract more people from abroad or the return
of fonner transmigrants- Extra settlement if ever planned should however never be
situated on the uncleared parts of the scheme because of the very deep peat layers, which
will lead to crop failure after a few years.
Safeguards and Mitigation
The only safeguards deemed necessary are to avoid build-up of toxic levels of acid and
other effluent from the exposed PASS soils, in the tertiary canals. This can be best
guaranteed during the rainy season when flushing is aided by excessive amounts of.
precipitation.
At a more regional level are the need to protect the existing green belts.along the Punggur
Besar and Sci Bulan rivers. Prcsently no programs exist for the sound management of
forest resources, to safeguard future needs for forest products and environmental stability.
Poss-ibilities should be evaluated by the project to stimulate the development of forestry
124



_  _' ..
S_;on d'.t p'med Hmmbrt
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c A. B ndC
activities b   zth  nhabitants of the schemes on the uncleai-ed lands on blokA  BadC
This will generate alterative types of incomne and stabilize land-use around the scheme.
125
3_



Second dnft; pfnued I Novnmber 1992
10.0 IMPACT ASSESSMENT SUMMARY TABLE
This section presents a summary table of the overall impacts of the project on various
aspects of the environment. Each major element of the environment is treated seperately,
with the positive and negative aspects of the project components summarised, along with
management and monitoring options, and the likely overall effects after implementation.
In this manner, the relativc importance of the project componcnts on the environmcntal
components can be idenLified. Further information on the management and monitoring
options proposed is contained in the Management and Monitoring report.
The following table is divided into two sections; summarising impacts on the socio-
economic environment, and on the natural environment.
*f-1
***.                                       126



S         ,     I         *    ,                                                                                                                                                               .. 
9..".-..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, _                                                       _           .,,".
-          EnVfr.m,eIili' Coneit 7- MUce oI Empace              Positive impiact ot ProLej Ne gativc   macts ot             a                      Monitoring Options        lbely Efnc.ts aft*r
Affeced.                                         on Envirnrmenlal       ProJect on Environmenlal                                                            linplenentalon
Conmponent                Component
On-schewa atcWufal        New and upgraded dikes,    Reduced wet custo Sooding Eposure of PASS sialls    Identify areas of sigrifcanr  nl org ol  ai cidity    Reduced floo1    o rields
productiln                eAnals and water control   of fields                  catelos risk of acid ulphate  PASS sois In reblaton to                         khTv    chwys of
stdudures                                            conlamrlatilon of fIked   constnrulon               Monor llood levels and    successful Wm season
Improved dry uason                                                             hydrological change       acoppig
Irrlgation                Substantial earUhvwrks on    Woven bamboo fences bild
agrcuttural lands required   on dikes to contain pyriIo    Proper mantenance of dikes Improved dry season
rImproved watler circuallon                         ials                       & caat%  -gaton eables udrnl
reduces acidky problems    Local dlsturbarnce dunq                                                        crtOppi
constrdclon               Lkrlng of affected dikes.    CompensatIon to adversely
Improved contlrd of sal                                                        affected lfamer,           Beer etrold of ua Wslon
itrusilon                 L6os of land               Ensure free movement of                              and water ekcuatlon
water via colector drains.
Addly probla redwed
.   . .,      .           .         .           . ~~~~~~~~~overmn.
New o upgraded transport  Improved transpodZ wiNn    Easier access for unwoanled  Identify ureas or signirfiant   Regulr maltenance of  knproved epy t  mare
and navigalton components  schemes                   or unatuheuhed vislom     PASS sds In relation to    lnspoel s5siems           aFlceaw    products
constncItlon
Improved tranupodZ between  Loss of some aoricuRturl
schemes and markets       lands                     Compensation for land
disrupitlons
PossIilty of attacting new   Risk of PASS sal eposure
settlers
Local disturbances and
disruplons during
co.nslnxtion
SlranglhenZn of agricuitural Improved eduatin,       None                      None required              Ensure wproed comrpnents  Increase   productio
suppor ser*Ices IncludIng:   gargsatton, technology and                                                   meet the farmers          1ou  kWpovd education
support for agcullure                                                          tequkemets                 and tehnlgy
Agriculural extension;    prodmucon.
Improved water use
maagement;
TetIary Oemonstratlon Units;
Land development; traIning &
reseatch and extensIon,
127



r FnvmtrenrMne!ntul ,Ceipeneni   Source or inpaci   Palllve hwrce or Project    Negative npacets of      Managenwnt Opions  I Monitoring Optlons              Iklety Efneds after
Affected.                                      on Environmntal       Project on Envlonmenial                                                              nta laton
Component                Component
On-sceme egliurel         Strenglhening of egrlculural Reduction o pIg problem on  DUiffculy of maintenance                     Maintenance of fence      Reducion In pig nxnber an
produetn, e    4oUe       suppr:                   schemes                                                                                                schemes hkweases cropig
Ulelhood orf tft or damage                                                  sucis
Pereer plg fence         Clear delifeatlah of tchme
boundaries
Strengthening of agricuitural Reductilon of fat peel probem Potentilal deaths of farm  Ensu'e correcl dosages of   Monilorig of pesticide use  Improved crop producUion
support:                 on schemes                animas through hgestion of poisons administered
poison                                             MontorIfn of success of
Rat contol                                                                  Regulation of supply of      proram
polons on schmes
Eduation program
Strengthening of agricuturel Increased crop yields  Nona
supporl:
Improved seed production
Estate crop development    Ber utillsatlon of currently  Oilfrcuitles In adjustin to mm Identlfcallon of land suitabi
unused lande             methods and techwofgles
Ensure approproprlate estae
Olvenalfklcban of gicultue                         crops are planted
On-schemo publil heath    Instalation of Individual  Improved qualty and     None                     Ensure effective installailon  ManBoring of  pubric hoah   Inproved health In ommu
cistens for drlnking water   avehabilty of dreldng water                    and maintenance of systems
Onschem sc  sewn        Suppot for agro-itdustrles,  Improved opportluntles for   None                                                                   Improved socW s g
pilo eredil scheme and social finnclng of prolects
debplmnt components
Improved educaton and
develpnt of womensa rote,
2-8
S~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *  ,  * 



t     ||a  .                                          * ,                                                                                                            *.. 
L-l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       -                                                                                             . ..^-K
E,WfrereflhNtal Gompon.n.     Source or hImpact     Poaftive k,n¶pcs of Project    Negative tntpacl of    Man.gwent options          Maonloting Options        UketV Elhects altar
Afrected.                                       on Environmenlal      Project on Envviroomentatl                                                         bnplmnentatlon
Componenl                 Component
New and upgraded dkes arnd Reductilon of flooding in som  Incfeased flooding of  Ident(fleatiooPASSsolls  Reg ar assesment of     ReleIbUn of oeal hwmony
canals                    areas                     nelghbourin fields hI *me  lations                  knpacls an reghbourg land
areas                                           .u st
Identification of lcal
Rlsk of cop damage hI    nlodfllfrlgation problems
adjacent fileds through
consinjclon actvties,    Compensalon of affeted
especilly exposure of PASS commtlunes
soils
Reduced water avalaSble for
dry seaston rkIgatIon
Perception of transmrants
receMng perentIal
treatment
ClearIng of pertphlrul blocks None                 Conflicts wih logging  .    Identificaton of land status   Co-ardinated manugemenl of Reention of socdal harmo
cocesons ov ov wership                              neIghbouring lands
of valuable tknbers
PerImeter pig fence      Clear delInealion of scheme  Movement of pigs onto  None                      None
.boundaries               adjacent properes
New or upgraded transporl  Improved regional ranspor   None                   Maintenance of Iransport    Nonw                    Beter legration  d  emes
end navigatIon components  systems                                            systems                                            hinder commuray
.            .                  .      . ..
. . . ... ...
-                 ~~~~~129



:hij
S1-''  ''  ' -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,
i   -  _X_W. . ."rswvrgr~~- 
nv roin ala           Source of Irpact     Positive inpacts of Prolee on   Negative IMpacts ot Prolect on  Management Optlons          Monitoring Options        Ukely Effects atner
Col.ponnt                                  Envirannentat Componehi         Envirmernlal Compone-nt                                                                 ImplhrnentaUton
Terreeslrl Funa         Widife explicJalion    Reduced opportunity for explNation Success of schemes rmy lead lo   Actie promolion of sauer pest   Regular fauna suvvep.  impved base#e data en
through more elffcient pest (pig)    inresed populion end possible  control alelias.                                 blcl fan provies belier
control                        greater ikelihood of epclalon                                Monioring IransmIgranu    capabqty to mnAor
Environmental eductin       widlife  ecling atlMe.  probls.
Increased farmn produciMly reduces                             program.
IncenUves for eiplitation of wildlife
Accidenlal dealh of rare  Reduced Incidence of captures  Unlikely to completly solve  Active pronotion o safer pest   Monioring of captue of rar  Reduced capture of rare
spees                  tihough more eflchnt pest control  problem.                    control aernhates.           species.                  species.
ErnIronmntasl educaton                                Greater ewaraeess through
program.                                              educata
Removal of on-scheme   None                           Animals kiled durlng cearig of    Care taken durig lnd ckli   Monloring of ade  lands. W     rie rtdreals to adacen
wdife habtats due to                                  land                            operaltons                                             forest
lend cleerlng                                                                                                      Co-operon  ith
Reduction In avaIable habiat   Proper management of edacent nelghbouin laarnolders.   WISe remains seze hI
forest.                                               adjacerd forests.
Reductlon In blversy n
schemes                        Retenuion of green belst    
RetentIn of luger trees for bird
habial.
Perineter pig fence   Reduced oppoduniy for olher     Fragmenlation of wildlife habiats.  Use of pig ferice only on smnal  None required.   Willifless Ukelyto vls
wildlife to enter schemes                                      schemes                                                schems
Wldlife trapped within chernes.
Sting of fence around cropped                         Some sPIe btrpped
areas rather than arournd                             wil schwem    WA"t
uncleared land                                        swvtve
Perimter dikes and    None                            FragmenatIon of wIldlife habitas   SiiNg of new dikes and canals                       Whie retreats to lss
canals                                                                                around cropped areas rather                            idsubd a*ae  foret
Access roues to off-asle foresbl   than unclared forest
Dralnage of swamps reduces
habiat qualily
Consirucilon of dikes and Nohe                        Reduction, fragmentatin and     Minimal disturbance to nalual  None reqtured.          Redued widife popu
canals wHhin schemes,                                 degradatin of habials.          vegetation during consructIon                          wl schlees.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _               ~~~~ ~~~~~~phase.
Use of pestiides      None                            Poisoning ol non target species  Seleclion and use of aipproprite
through diect Ingestion, or through  pestlicides
feedIng on poisoned animals
Education hI use of pesticieks
130



_.                                 .,curc..uum$.'orgee  -.  -'I  11Eim. picet orriolecr on   Negative rrpacte oci Projct on  Menagewnt options       Monntoring Optlon.i Ukely Effects saft
componenl                                  Envlronmental Component         Environmenlal Coffponent                                                                rnplnentatlon
Aacenl forests          Oif..Ne titer harvesting Improved agriculural success may  Unlikely io completely slop  idenircaon or tinber rneWds    ReLAst checks on wood    Reduction In hsion of
reduce need for forest products,   harvesting of Umber products off   wi;  schemes.        usag h comntmly.          othie forests.
PossI5e seng up d wodols  Monlorgof producly of krwd  Supply of tubl I
Success of schemes may open area on abndoned or disused bnds woodols or on schem  faresn mAa geIw of bwodots.
for mare eploatIon.           to meel needs on-sue.         pbls.                    etc. sinesshi
ParImeler dikes and   None                            Eposure of PASS sils may cause Sling of new dikes and eanls                          Fored remas,A hI ha
canals                                                vegetation death.              around cropped reas rather                            mare depaded r cnnM
than uncleared forest
Loss of vegeaton dudng
construction.
Openi  of forest to weds
Draining of forest creates water
stress for plants.
On-slte forests and flow  Remoal ol on-scheme   Remoal ol weed species.       Renmoal of ntural veetatiomn   Supervison durin clearing.    Ensure ebared Land b    On ske forests remwlOed
land,                   habiats due to clearirg                                                                                           crepped
far agfrkuiur.                                        Urnes land Is cropped, weed
Species Wm nvade.                                           Regular aeineence of
uneopped bnd.
Construtlbn of dikes and None                         R ducUon or degradation of on cile Mimal dstubuee to natural  Reguar mantenance d    Reduced onosfh
e*Se wilhh achemes   ,  vfie,t tbel  phase.      -r-                  
ara        of swamp causes
veeatin stress.                PASS oS areas wel draMed.
Exposure of PASS soIs leads b
vetaltin death.
131



EvWromntia            souJrcg ot ofr.nict    Positive kwpicte of Project an   Negative ipacts af Project an  Management Optlons        Monitorlng options       Ubedy Eetds *rtur
Comnponent                                 Environmental Comrponent       Environmuntal Camponent                                                                hIrWamenilon
On.Wei  Autc           Use of heicides and    Ckafance of wveeds trin canals.   Polutn of waters.           Strict rglalian od use of    Wale qr,y monirmg       M*IYnen of gonod
mn*orm¶ri              pestikies,                                                                           chemkals.                    progwn                   qu*m   wough fedGcbi hn
Us of pow d sL Ouh
Education In use of cdrcals.                         rqtbir mmimti
Us of mecharkca m sod ,,
aquai woed removal.
Improved pest control mens
lower usage of poin.
Constructn of new or  Improved waler crculation.     Destnution of exilt  aquatic    Identily areas wher PASS s1  WiteriquatyorJorin     Addiy problem Maly lo be
upgraded dikes and                                   habRals in some areas.         may be a proolem             program                  shterm
canals wlhin scheme.s  AddHbonal aquatic habiats avable.
Hgh acldily hI canls If PASS sd   Consinitclon of cmlbeor drm                        Cdhntsaln of new cmda
exposed..         .      *. .  i hn PASS sd areas.-by sq>aia  pis Nd
Tubldly hincse.                Ensue free moverfiero wdter
in PASS areas.
Aquatic fauna aceldentally kde
duing excavtions.
Constulelon and       None.                          Retrktion or watwr mvemwen     Closure of gates reguiated to    Regular moniaring dofwer Esal lwh i dbofbalered
opration otw ater gates.                             creates stagnant condlnas.      ensure good water flbw.     qualy. weed gwA i a* n   aquwk ecolg h e
aqusatc fauna diversi In
Restrcted moments of aqudat                                cmij
animals.
Possble bId up of acity.
Ideal conditons foe wed growh.
Remnnelsation of on-  Improved stream flow.          Tuinporary destructin or change lo SupeMtion d;lrD          Regukr rnonitS of water R      _cfnsbn or aquat
uheme tivers and                                     habiats.                        rechannelisation proects Io  quaRy. weed groewh cnd    &*mierts.
removal of deadlocks.                                                                 nswue salety of lrge aqti    aquatic auna die. iy h
Increased Iwbidity and possibe    an*rnals (eg Crocodiles, uttes). canals.
mroson.
Netthg of areas bjoqi to
Aquallt fauna CCdentally Idled    contain lrge aquatic fau
duhng excavatins,              before excaation wws
proceed.
132
S. *                             . S



n_nmeU af 3                   mrpcu      Po-iva Miacta of Project on   Negative yKpacte of Projec an                ...........or".... QpIIans               S  PuU  
Com ponent                                Environrental Conponent       Environmental Component                                                              h¶ilu.auol
Of l.,R. and perieral    Construction of dikes    None                      Removal of bankslde vegetation.   Idericailon of aeas of PASS. Mwnor erosLon prolm  Tepory  s tswbac  to
stream aquaib          mdlacenA to rver banks.                                                                                        ad sucewss of revegetaton. aquatie  vrmnment.
snvironreNls                                                                Increased fltatlon of rivers.  Olsurbance to rver banks kept
to *nimum.
Posibbe kiease hI acidty due to
eVposurs of PASS.             Erosion cdr*o wher necessay.
Distsubance to stream bed.    Reveon of banks.
Changs hI uivrrne habial.
Rechannelsaln of     None                           DIsturbance to suiesm beds     DIsturbances kept to mirini. None                   Temary changes to
.   rivers,                                                                                                                            aquatic ab atsts
Distubnce to banksilde
environment. 
Chan-a hI rir now.
Use of herbicides and   Nono                        Pollution of local river systems  Sid regulation of use of  Monrorhg of water qua.y  Pokimon evels hI ries not
pesicIdes,                                                                        chemcaus.         -rpeed to hcrese
Educatin hI use of chemicals.
Use of mrecharkel mneans of
aqwue weed remvt
,                      I~~~~~~~~mpreved posl contlrd m ans
I     ,,         .   bwerkwu oneof pdw
.
133



Second dnra; pinted I November 1992
11.0  REFERENCES
AARD & LAWOO (1990) Papers Workshop on Acid Sulphate Soils in the Humid
Tropics, 20-22 November, 1990. Bogor, Indonesia.
Anderson, J.A.R. (1975) Prelininary report on the ecology of five peatswamp forests in
Sumatra and Kalimantan, Indonesia. Anderson & Marsden Forestry Consuiltants.
Andrew, P. (1992) The birds of Indonesia - A checklist (Peters' sequence). Jakarta:
Indonesian Ornithological Society. xii+83pp.
ADB (1987) Handbook of the use of pesticides in the Asia-Pacific region. Manila: Asian
Development Bank. xiv+294pp.
AWB Survey Team (1991) Studi eksploratif aspek-aspek sosial-ekonomi penduduk di
sekitar Suaka Margasatwa Berbak, Kabupaten Tanjung Jabung - Propinsi Jambi,
Sumatera. PHPA/AWB Sumatra WetlandProject Report no. 25a. Bogor: Asian
Wetland Bureau.
Dent, D. Acid Sulphate Soils: a baseline for research and development.. ILRI publication
39, ILRI, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
* f    Favre, D.S. (1989) Intemational Trade in Endangered Species. A Guide to CITES.
Martinus Nijhoff Pub], London. xx+415pp.
Furukawa, H. (1986) Environment and agriculture in the Batanghari River Basin of
Jambi, Sumatra. In: Tsuyoshi Kato el al. (eds.) Environment, agriculture and
*      society in the Malay world. Center for Southeast Asian Studics, Kyoto Studies.
Giesen, W. (1992) Hutan bakau Pantai Timur Strict Nature Reserve. Bogor: AWB
Giesen, W. & B. van Balen (1991a) The Wetlands of the CGiam-Siak Kecil Wildlife
Reserve, Riau, Sumatra - PHPAIAWB Sumatra Wetland Project Report No. 2Z,
Bogor, 58pp.
Giesen, W  & B. van Balen (1991b) Padang Island and Lake Tanjung Padang, Riau-
PHPA/AWB Sumatra Wetland Project Report No. 12, Bogor, 23pp.
HIMBIO (1992) Laporan sigi fauna di Sual;a Migasrztwa Berbak, Propinsi Jambi. Bogor:
PHPA/A%VB Sumatra NVetland Project report no. 34. xvi+62pp.
Indraningsih ct al. (1990) Penyakit Hewan 20: 133-137.
;         Indraningsih ct al (1988) Penyaldt Hewan 20: 98100.
134



Second dmfl; printed I November 1992
IUCN (1990) 1990 IUCN Red List of Threatened Animals. World Conservation
Monitoring Centre Cambridge, U.K.
KPSL UNLAM (1988)
Lenton, G.M. (1986) Thc feeding and breeding ecology. of Barn Owls Tyro alba in
Pensinsular Malaysia. Ibis 126:551-575.
Mackinnon, J. (I992) National Conservation Plan for Indonesia. Vol 11: Sumatra.
National Parks Development Project of FAO.
Payne, J., C.M. Francis, K. Phillipps (1985) A field guide to the birds of Borneo. Kota
Kinabalu: The Sabah Society. 332pp.
PTP (1991) Pestisida untuk pertanian dan kehutanan. Jakarta: Directorate-Genral for Food
*            Crops. iv+21-2pp.
*     Purwoko, A & W. Verheugt (1989) Final Report. Component Environmental Studies on
Pulau Padang, Riau. 1. Biological Survey 1989 Activities. Report to Hudbay Oil
Ltd.
RePPProT (1987) Review phase I results. Kalimantan Volume I & 2. Jakarta:
Department for Transmigration.
RePPPrDT (1988) Review phase I results. Sumatra Volume I & 2. Jakarta: Department
for Transmigration.
Rusila (1991) Laporan penyigihan burung air di Sumatera Selatan dan Jambi. Bogor:
PHPAlAWB Sumatra Wetland Project Report no. 2.
Rusila (1992) Burung-burung di Taman Nasional Berbak. Bogor: Asian Wetland Bureau
(in preparation)
Silvius, M.J.', H.W. Simons & W.J.M. Verheugt (1984) Soils, vegetation, fauna and
nature conservationof the Berbak Game Reserve, Sumatra, Indonesia. Arnhem, the
Netherlands: RIN.
Silvius, M.J., W.J.M. Verheugt, & 1. Iskandar (1987) Coastal wetlands inventory of
Southeast Sumatra. Cambridge, UK: ICBP Study Report no.9.
Tideman, J. (1937) Djambi. Koninklijke Vereeniging :Koloniaal Instituutt Amsterdam.
Mededeeling no. XLII. DeBussy, Amsterdam.
Toumey, J. (1986) Who ya gonna call? Barn Owl! California Macadamia Society 1986
Yearbook. p.51-53
'                     -.             135



Second datk; pinied I November 1992
UGM  (1975) Laporan pemairan tanah tinjau mendalan daerah pemairan Kubu.
Yogyakar: Universitas Gadjah Mada.
UNDP/FAO (1981) National conservation plan for Indonesia. Volume 5: Kalimantan.
BogorI UNDP/FAO National Parks Development Project.
Van Son, T. (1991) Grondgebruik en migratie in Jambi. Rotterdam.
Whitten, A.J., S.J. Damanik, J. Anwar, N. Hisyam (1984) The ecology of Sumatra.
Yogyakarta: Gadjah Mada University Press. xiv+583pp.
Wulf, R.de & K. Rauf (1981) Preliminary survey to Berbak Reserve. FAO field report.
136
136



MMI
IV                 yk.0  !i;.
3
t" V.
Vq'
J.
U4.
Cm                                                                                                                                                           I                                                            -:4..-
U,                                                                                r                                                                                      a
OR..                                                                                  bIt.
t              .f                ..*7  v.                                                                                                                        #,P                                         44'1:
ij,
)r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         !qo
014"
V
W            vloi,                                                                                                   I; 146
46.
W. T.   7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NV
pf       I
v. 19.           j
nl                                                                         Al
O,                       X
A
it I,L
N,                                                                      J-
V....
Z                                            0  t
IO
'44 TIA
A
vw
A . -4
ei, I
j. -, -  'k.. :,VI- - "                                                                            .1     'i, ,
.f  -,                                                                        ;    .  .q   . .   ,  ...
?,,7, q                                                                                                   IT
Ar"                .   I ':-    2
-u      -4-:4  ..                              .        ..,.
:$
r I J   IX                                                                                                                             'PT o                         .31
O
t                                                    W,..                                                                         JF
kc
4i
er
4 A.                                                                             IN                                            J,
!:i,?
M,"  -1
t. I                                                                                                                         i fi
O I
wo
i;
VP                                                NP                              A 4-                                        t. F:
I    hmlFa i
rt                I Ixifisp, P.                                                                                                       G-1
%:Jjr,
O                        A4                                                                                                  11 .                           I: A
i.j
.F-1-1 No



Second dnfk; pfinted 01l11192
Appendix 1: Basic Information Jambi Scliemes                                           SCHEMES
uMXrflIv  ffl4., tA~$iiifpaiiM          g-on~,                ISDP4JAMBI
DESCRIPTICN  .    .    .                                  ._._.__
Surface (In ha),       total                       6,500  4.030  1,950   6,440      4.140   9,11      2,760    4,500    2.000    11.40      43,370
Rice land (monoculture)  (ha)                      1,275  1.300     0        2,950              4,145              620             7        10,290
Rice + 12.5 % Coconut   (ha)                       1,435   495  1.030        2,750              2,345             1,796            ?         .9,851
Rice + 40% Coconut     (ha)                           a    90   450          2,065              3.523              877            7          7,005
Total mixed Rice+ 12.5-40% Coconut (ha)    1,435   585  1,480      4,815             5.868              2,673           ?         16,856
Coconut (+ Fruit)      (ha)                           0      0      0         400                 0                 0              ?           ioo
Total cropped land (ha)    2,710  1,885  1,480    8,165             10,013             3,293            7        27,546
Total cropped land (%)   42%   47%   76%           77%               84%                51%            ?            64%
Farn households        (households)                1,270   927   750         3,483              5,217             1,930            7        13,577
Mean area cropped      (halhh)                      2.13   2.03   1.97        2.34              2.01               1.71 i                       2.1
Rlce Intensity         (Rice + 412.5% coconut on    65%   91%   54%           55%                73%               59%                       ?
sultbale soils)
Cropping Intensity     (                            73%   33%   74%    _       5%                90%               69%             ?         7
Less developed land    (ha)                         806  1,000   175          250                 0               1,100            ?         3,331
Cropped+Less developed (ha)    3,516  2,885  1,655      8,415             10,013             4.393           7         30,877
Cropped+Less developed (%)     54%   72%   85%           80%               84%               68%             ?            71%
Fish ponds, existing  ltolal area per scheme (ha)   0.10   0.10   1.65    0.25       3.59    1.50      2.00     3.10      1.88     0.20       14.37
Fish farmers (main & side) (households)         .    10    30        5      10         70    100        125      250        50       15        665
Fish ponds/househOld (ha/hh)   0.01   0.00   0.33    0.03       0.05    0.02      0.02     0.01      0.04     0.01       0.02
.   .    ....   ..   .  .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   ...  .   .    .    ..  .~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............
Appendix 1, Page I



Second dftift pdinted Oilif9Z
Appendix 1: Basic Inromation ,Tambi Schemes                                            SCHEMES
.________________  _ _ _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _ i    m;g  m t  I      mp,ei~ang D 6iii~.,.,d .     ISDP-JAMBI
CONSTRAINTSIPROBL.EMS                           .                                                         I__
Inundallon (in ha)     maximum (last 10 years)     5,372  2,912    ?     6,204  Nd i     ncat         2,300       . 7,380          2.513     26,681
Inundation in ha)      annually   -                3,887  1,180    ?     2,852  Not slntIcat    399   2,300        6,140           2.046     18,804
Inundation (in ha)     wet season (sprlng tide)        0      0   7      1,178       2,543   3,270    2.068        2,612            244      11,911
Inundation (In ha)     dry season (spring tide)        0      0   7         51        614    125        125         230                0      1,145
Inundation (in % o! total)  maximum (last 10 years)  83%   72%    ?        9B%      7         7         83%        114%            130%         62%
Inundallon (in % of total)  annually                60%. 29%    ?          44%      ?          4%       83%         94%            ?            43%
Inundallon (n % of total)  wet season (sprlng tide)  0%  . . 0%    ?       18% .      61%    36%        75%         40%             13%1        27%
inundallon (In % of total)  dry season (spring tide)  0%    0%    ?         1%        15%      1%        5%         4%               0%          3%
Soils, mineral an ha)  pyrle soils/PASS               88    75    87       176        210       00                100        0     1,940      2,676
Solls, mineral + shallow   (sultable for rice +412.5%  4;167  1,063  1,907   10,316             8,934              4,122           7         31,409
peat                   coconut)                                       I
Soils, peals (n ha)    shallow (<100cm)            2,436      0  1,336   4,858       1,192   7,088    1,050     2,084    1.446       865     22,355
Soils, peals (in ha)   medium (100-200cm)             _1,525        0       0          0    737          0                          400      2,662
Solls, peals (In ha)   deep (>200cm)               1,020   145      0       28          0       0         0     1,434        0      675        3,902
soils, all peats       total                       4,056  1,670  1,338   4,886       1,192   7,825     1,050    3,518    1,446    1,940      2.5,919
Aqua-culture potential,   tidal ponds (ha)             0      0    15         0         20      35        10 ..   22          0        8        110
Aqua-culture potentlal,   non-tidal ponds (ha)        25    20       0       15          0       0         0        0         0       io          70
Aqua-culture potential,   rice-fneld demo p1ots (ha)   0      0    20    . 0           loa    160         50       60         0        s        395
Aqua cullure potential,   canalstditches (ha)          0      0      0      2.5        2.5    2.5        2.5        O         0        0          10
Aqua-culture potential,   cages (ha)                   0      0      0        2          2       2         2        0         0        0           8
Plgs                                      .    maJor    maJor          not.  .             not                      main  .    maJor
Rats                   .                                    -             -                                                       -
Other pests                                                            w _  eeds           birds                     iotters
Disease(s)                                                             None specirically menlioned, or solutions planned
Forest nearby/adjacent    __    -                 Yes    Yes   No         No        No       No       No       Yes  I  Yes        Yes
Appendix I, Page 2
..-_.               . .     ,.  a   ,   ,   ,                                   S



I       -                            S                                                                      *       a
Second dnftl puinte 01 1IfLI
A      pendix 1: Basic Informnstion Jnmbi Schemes                 .
.   |  _  = m m m m m tf m~~~~$06g   10                                                         D                           ISDP-JAMBI
PROJECT ACTIVITIESIASPECTS                                             .                       _           I
Dikes (In km),         new                           5.8      a          ?   0          0    14.6      22.0        40.3          19.7        103.0
Dikes (In km),        rehabilitation                   6      0   ?          0          0       0        0         01.                0         6.0
New canal(s) (n km),    navigation                     0     0   ?           0       15.8       0        0         O        0         O       1$.8
New canal(s) (n km),    primary                        0     a   ?           a          0       0        0         11.7               0       11.7
New canal(s) (n km).    secondary                     0      0   7          8         8.5       0        0          2                 0       1 8.
Newcanal(s) On km),    tertIlary                      0      0   ?         10           3       0        0a         0       0         o       13.0
Rechannellzallon (In km), river(s)                  tt 2  .                       0             0        0 O     .   _                0       10.0
Rechanralizatlon (In km), navigation canals           6    3.5 '            5           0       0        0         0        0         0       14.5
Rechannelizatlon (In km), prlmary canals             5.8     0   7          0           0       0        0        38.6           7.8          52.2
Rechannellzatlon (In km), secondary canals            10                     0          0       0        0        .151.7        38.05        199.8
Rachannelizatlon (In km), tertiary canals              0 t        ?          0          0                ol 0      ()I           o   0         0.0
Earth work (new & rehab), dikes (1,000 m3)          32.2   0.0   7         U.0        0.0  171.8    191.7         260.5         168.4         824.5
Earth work (new & rehab), river (1,000 m3)          40.0  586.5   7       50.0         0.0    0.0       0.0        0.0           0.0          676.5
Earth work (new & rehab), prlmary canal (1,000 m3)  125.0   0.0   ?        0.0      450.0    0.0        0.0       752.1         121.2       1,448.3
Earthi work (new & rehab), secondary canal (1,000 m3)    162.0 .0.0   7   16.0         5.8    0.0       0.0       596.5          57.1         840.3
Earth work (new & rehab), tertlary canal (1,000 m3)  0.0  . 0.0   0.0    24.0   .   42.0    0.0         0.0        0.0           0.0           66.0
Total earth work (new & rehab; 11000 m3)    359.2  586.5   0.0    90.0   500.8  171.8    191.7        1609.1        3.$          3,855.7
Water control works,   stop-log                      127      0   7        118          4      26        10        161                0 _
Water control works,   sluice gate   *          -      0      0   ?          1          9      17        26  .     0         0        0         53
Water control works,   nap gate                        1      0   ?          9         10       3         0        4         2        0         29
Waler control works.   sluice/llap gate                3      0   ?          0          0       4         S        3         4        3         22
Water control works,    . permanent.earlh.closures.   .. .  0  0   7      .4        .   3       3 .       I        O .-                  _0_11
Water control works,   pumps                           Q      0   7          0         11       a         0        0         o        o         11
Water control works,   off-take siructures             0      0     0        0         44       0         o   -        .              0         4
Roads                  new/upgrading (to tarmac)      0" w n                            0       0         0        1'.1           6            21.1
ol       l-o             0        1         -                  -
Appendix 1, Page 3
S



Saco" 4vMR; punted QlwIirl
Appendix 1: Basic Infomnntion Jambi Schemes                                               SCHEMES.
5ridges  ___________________  -~ ~~~~~'Ma t                       __bur_ON    ____            IKt                  Ot 'Difi an  ISOP-JAB
Bridges                                                        |a      0        0          0            0        °     ° 0  0  0
Jetties                 new1reconstrucVrepalr            1      0      0        0          0       0         1         1   0 °               _         3
Pig fence               (km)                            41     48    30        28         22      25        17          35                 0        246
Pig fence               (m/ha)                         6.3   11.9   15.4      4.3         5.3     2.7       6.2       7.81     0.0       0.0         60
Odrinking water,        cistem units                1,270    927    7      1,125         611   4,470       747        1,942             267      11,359
Agro-chemicals,         urea, HYVs only (kg/ha)                                      40 IncreasIng to 100
Agro-chemicals,         TSP, HVVs only (kg/ha)                                               20
Agrocheomicals,         KCL                                                                  I       I      . I         I
Agro-chomicals,        insecticide (I/ha)                                            0.8 Increasing to 2.0
Agro-chemicals,         rodenticido (kglha)                                    0 increasIng to 2.5 and down to 0.5
Agro-chemicals,         herbicide (kghaJ)                                             0 Increasing to 2.5
Aqua-culture,           hatchery centre                  0      0      0        0          0        10                 0         0         0           I
Aqua-culture, demonstr.  tidal ponds                 7       ?      7       7          ?        7        7         ?         ?         7               7
Aqua-cullure, demonsir.  non-tidal ponds             7        ?      ?      ?          7         7        ?         ?        7 _       7               3
AqUia-culture, demonstr.  rice-field culture         7       7      7       ?          7         7       ?         7         7         ?               2
Aqua-culture, demonstr.  ditch culture               7       7      ?       7                   7 ??                         ?         ?               4
Aqua-culture, demonstr.  cage culture                7       7      7       ?          ?         ?       ?         ?         7         ?               4
Soclo-economic          Multi-Purpose Center         ?       7      7       7         ?         7        ?         ?         7         ?               3
Soclo.economrlc 
Research,               ield stations  .             ? 7                ?        ?    7         7        ?              7         7               ?
Research,               Technical Demonstration      7       7      7       ?                   7        ?         ?         ? 79
_units (TDUsw                               .
Appendix 1, Page 4



L~_ ___ __                        _                          *-           __      ___
APPENDIX 2:
DATABASE ISDP SITES WEST KALIMANTAN
4                           C'S,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total Area (ha)            3430       3259      2000    1300  9000 2600  7520   635   2100  1900  1390 1960 2420  2350    1750   2500 46114
Cultivated (ha)            3500       1350      1380    950   6750 2225  4975   550   1875  800   250  1000 2000  1775    875    1000 31255
Ratio Cultivaed/Total srea    100%    41%       69%     73%   75%  86%   66%    87%    89%   42%   18%  61%   a3%   75%           50%    40%   68%
Peat > ISOcm(ha)                                                775    9    1950    59    551   383  peat 700   19   187                  peat  4633
Pyrite vithin lOOcm       2467       3259       1881    1208  1475 1534  468    295    48    145   371  668               764     651     608  15942
Flwoded, max. (ha)          x          x         x        x          2380  350    250       x     x    760   x             x              700  4440
Salt Intnzion               x          x         x                     x                                                           x
Houscholds (Hh.), 1990      7          7                  7    1646  926  2726   143   454   183   311  246   391   645           259    746
Anual Change In Hh.(Y.)     7          ?         ?        7      7     7    6.29  -13.72  -4.32  -8.22  -5.57   a   -0.88 -9.02    6.55   -7.18
Income on-famn xl .000 Rp                       824      824   783  603   020    941    594   018   234  1003  453   348    502    1214  684
Income o fi-arm xl1.OOO Rp                      406      464   207  334   315    177   403   435   142  397   96   245    551    255   316
Rice production, [on/ha    1.1        0.8                0.8       .0.8   1.2   0.83              1.1.' 0.83  1.1   1.1   1.1             1.01
Ex1ra Settlements ISDP   |                                                 175 Hh 125 Hh *150Hh 12OHh .  SOHh 1755Hh
Wild Pig Pcst                                                               R.J. I   yes    yes   yes   yes  yes   yes   yes       7      yes
Rat Problems                                                                                                  A      x    .x               x
Remaining Sec. Forest on
Scheme (ha)                      60             130             585  305   335             185    10          135  215   75       490           2525
logs $ logs &
Logging Neawby Forest                         mangrove                     lggcul  lo      logs   yes  logs  logs  logs   yes  mangrove logs
Detailed Design
Hydrological Inafaa        yes        Yes       yej      yes    no    no     7      no    yes   yes   no   no    no    no          no      no
Semi-Open Semi-OpenPldr odrPat
Hydrological System          l       Tdl       Polder  Polder Pas
Lack Potable Water          x          x         x        x      x     x     x       x      x      x     x    x      x     x       x        x



Second drft; printed 01111192
'FAUNA ON OR NEAR ISDP SITES, AUG-SEP 1992
Og2ERVAONS                                           STATUS                        UTILISAnON
O*Observd by AWI tem   ugFp  h                       P * Proeced In indomeb        Fm Usd for food by htawns
C   ldnUitcatlon by tcal AWl tams                    Appi * Appendx I CITES        S u SWd for skin
R a Reliably reporled to AW8 temet Aug4a 1932        Appli * Appendix  CITES       A - Agrculural pzbour
? * Unrwln Id nUlketUen                              E o Erndangred  iRDB)             tracion, meat, *le)
Occurs In cultivated wraskcnaxbl                  V * Vuinerabl (RDB)           K * KepUeold an a pet
Ilaitroduced                                         ft.Rare(ROB)        .         PaPostebpecie
I - Indeterninale (RDU)
K * Unknown pS1D)
.  eywI.,wv-.e         ~                          -                                                       ..        ..
Fauly Thaflasainldae
MudkloWse                   Udeng Getah             Thalassjna moma.i1                            0  0
FaMily ealaemonidae
Freshwater Prawn            Udang Galah            M8crfbrchiumu sAp.             0   0           0  0            F
Faminy Partunia.
Marw or Swamp Crab                                 Scyi. srnas                                        0
- r            ~                         Total ftih speiesgnicW fih s s: S2/         1      31n2
Faly DasyatIdae4Rays)
StingRay                    pai                    ?                                  R
Sin Ray                    Pad                   KIintum stIgar                                  0              F
J Filly Ca rcarrerShws)
Shas                       Hou                     Camwk_                             R
F: nily Prstidas (Sawflahes)
Wide Swordrish              1un Gerpa              F pss                                    0            P       F
Fariny Osteglossidae (Bonytongues)
Aha Bonytangue             AunWVu pnlKrlV&um    5rmpages uosua                    R   R           R  R KAppl:P S,F
Fmiiy Notopteidas (Featherbacks)
Featherback                BeAfi                   No&ptn Chbh                   R   R                  P        F
jFath s                     Wlklm                  Nof-ptu  bomns_                               R  C            F
Family Cypirndae (Carp4ike Fishes)
*Rasbora                    PabdSeluao              Rasbrw vaan,                 O,R  R     O
R4sbora                    Simuang                 Rasbor a rwylaUia                             0  0            F,S
Carp                       lIkn pufih              OsleodhI  sdsegs                   0    O                     F
Carp                       KelemakfMeiknt          Osboolus hasseU                         O                    F
Crp.                                               Danula                             0                          F
Carp                       Sekuan                  OXrjgsternamawm                                   0
'Sib          Selumig ~~~~~~~~~~unmtadam0                                                           F
.uniy  Ragrida. (Casls
lrd CUUsn                  ALurdu                  AyIspb*ps                                0                    F
isaier Cattish              Be.glm d_al            Uytn   °wn                   a.R oF
Appendix 3, Page I
_  I



Second dnaf; prinied 01/31/92
Fanily Clardame (Walking Catdlhes)
Common Wmlldng Catfsh       LUmbetIL                  Ofas bichus                   O,R  R           R  R             F
Fanily Pangasildae 1Giant Catfishes)
pangaslus                    PaCn                    P4n9Is pcusradond       -       R  O,R          R  R            F
Fanily Sliuridd  (El4ailed Catfshes)
Eeld Catfish                L-aI                      Krypipt.w ... ,R  R                                            F
Glat Cath                   Tapah                    W       sp.                     R               R  R            F
L sWTbiIdn              Bobdonkhu  dn'                      0                           F
.oplop    aki.                           0                     F
Fondly Hl*rwnphdaa (biraeaks)
Hateak                      Puput. Juking-Jkung       OlW*hamphaodosp               R                O  0
Halibak                     Jukunlgung                lwii*wmplaln ct p;lzme                   0
Famiy Syngnathldaea (prs.s :)
Pipefish                    Kau buyaw                Doayichfbys d.ohluids                              0
Famly Datulldidam (Triple4aUs)
Fosu-banded Tgsh                                     D&A*ks quud tsdats                 o                           F
Famly Chandidae (Gtas Pchne)
Gas Pech                    Seririn                  Pan"ass woof                   0               0  0            F
GlIs Percalet               Swding                   Pa      smacis                                 0  0
Family Scaedsak  (Drms Croaaers)
Jur,h                       Karaw. GulaAh            Jbnkis fdssu,d                     0                           F
Famly Eleotrida (pudgucos)
i Uwled Gaby                 BaAuk                      O       ua u               O.R  0            0  0            F
I Fly GobamU (Pbles)
MudsWppor                   Gd                       PujaUhsw                      0   0           0  0
; udsMdp                     Glok                     P    ubp                                 0
Gabies                       Galang9 gWn             SrcdygaMis dada.                               0  O0
jiudskipper                  Seldok                  ?                                         0
;aransy Te:raodontide (Puffers)
PURIF MALI                 lkar. BunIel             Tetraodon  drigas                              0  O
:Fam,ily Cynoglosside (TonguetTsh)
list Sebebh             Cifogbzsu waan*rV                              0               F
'.,ftChmni  PinUawaf)
jFored Srkshd               G bu* ChomcDc                                         O.R R                            F
-iwS Snakahead              Tr_                     Cha          s               OR  R             .F
te"nsin Snakahsd            GCham-s7_                                             O.R O.R          0  0
wSn*dmhd                GtSbu.flx                 Wan A*
Appendix 3. Pge 2



Socond dkft; pfnted 01/1 1/92
a Anabantidas (Climbing P-rhse
rAwdnV Pot,                  Bet     110kOa"          Anabre i.sfdn                  O.R OCR   O,R   0  0              F
Fmily balonUda. (Gouraml.s)
Snakeasidn Gonmy             Sept Slm                 Tochosutfr pectorab                 RJ          0  0             F
Two-Spot Gourumy             TabakanlSepat            Tikhogasfarbkhopt ms           O,R O.R    0    0  0              F
Sepat                    Tichogasa4rkeri                           0
Fighting Fish                Tinpela bii.n Sp.                                                            O
Family Osphronwlddae (Giant Gouamndas)
Giont Gouramy                GairaMF                  Osphwmnm  gowa'                     R.l         R  R            F
Fawily Synbranchida (One-glled Eeb)
swamp Eel                    Emut                     ManponeAs albus               O.R O.R           R  R            F
Family Maatacemtaldae (Spiny Eel"
Spiny Eel                    Tln                       l Mstacambo.s .iyUunln             0                           F
Fawily Cichlide  (Cichilds)
ComnTlbapl a*k                                        OrsochRnus nzossansca              R.t          R   R           F
Nlk rdepi                    Nb                       Ormochraawnbeoc                    R.l          0   R           F
Family Pristoleplda (Mud Perhes)
AIud Perch                   B         bmgtBliin      PdWh*p;s oIl-                             0                     F
PUA-               Told inwbphibian spaclesignificanw ampibian spedes:   50  110    210
Family Buronkda (True Toads)
Common Toad                  Kodok                    aut melhnocn                   0   0      0
Fmily Ranidae (Bullfrogs)
Ground Frg                   Kaik hlnu                Ranm hn'odxca                  0   0           0   R            F
Ground Fmg                   KaOtk                    Ran&Ooeyllre.                  0   0           R   R
Ground Frog                                           ROa canC a                     0   0
Family Rhacphoid- (Tree Frogs)
Tr" Freg                                              R         s                        C
Toa re1tile $PQalIh*ffmIantt  speciesr 3         502  1014
Fomily CrocodylidW (Crocodiles)
False GvWial                 BaU" wu&ig                rrstmeva                  -O.R  R             R7 R? E-Appl   S
Estarhine Crocodi'.e  .      Buaya blk                Cm bcas p      omu            R   R           R? R? E:AppIlI  S
Family Testudinidae (Freshwater Turtles)
lFreshwaler Turwie            Yra-kura                 Boa c,as3acoft                07  0                             S
LMWaasian Giant T urle       Kura-kwa                 Ofta bom..m                   OFR  R
Fanily TeSonychidaa (Softshelled Turtks)
Sd-sheked Turtle              a              .r   c                                 R7  R?           R  0            s
Fuaml Gekonda (Geo Lizark)                                                                   .                        .                _
CommonHaLeGedlo              Ciodta      O                                                        O    O
Fistobled HouGo CG'_as                                                                .        0
LIlijjIate Gack                                      Ge    m Nbtb                        0
Tadm                     GOk*o geko                     0   C     C
Fiy Agw m gen l       )         -a,                                                            .
-                                  t~~~~~~~~~~~ppendix 3.Page3 



'It
Second draft; printed 01/1 1/92
*        Coftw~Can   m fDrasom                                 Ceas dtatt fffn                     O
Fayily Varanidam (Moninor Lizards)
Fofs Monitor                                          V!renus dumsru                      0          0? iR? AppIl    S
Asin Water Monilor           Blak                     varanus Iasvalor              O.R 0,R   O.R   R  R Appi    S
family Lacerlidae ILacertid LizArds)
Sk4hed Lacertid                                      JTnhwA    mSsb s                     O
Family ScIrcidce (Shink Lizards)
Sl-                                                  Lygosma sA                          0
ISm SknIC                    Ka"a                    Mdebwe 03 flflt                   0a            0       0
FaUWly Typhlopid. (NUnd Snakes)                -
lind Srake                                           RnmphOpl dos pso                    R
Family BoNdae (Pythons and Boas.)
Slud Pyiw                                            P)tOoo cnmte                   R7  R                   Appil
Retkulated Python            Ular swah                Pyon auhbaLaus                R  O.R    R          R Appil    S,K
FamJyAnlridae (Pipe Snakes)
Two.heded Srake.            Ular Kepaa Dun           Cydfpt  mbs a                       0
Funly Acmrchodldae Wale Snakes)
sAn File Snake                                       Aa'ncorSksJevw*mus             R   R                            S
Funly Colubridae (Mon-venomous and Rear4anged Colubdnw Sakes)
lacr                                                 EJspAe timNa                       0
Ffaited Oronebak                               *     Ds w#  poas,                        0
'Dwarf Reed Snake                                     PsudOfhabion Jboneps               0?
'Og4acedWater Snak                                    CaS.nm itchop s                    0
MwVron Snake                                         Be'       o_                    R   R               R
;FnNy Elapidae (Front-lnged Venomous Snakes)
banded Knra                        -                 Bumgaws satus                   R   R
!hac* Spiing Cobr            Ular seudok             Nap PoA                        R   R      Ft
'4S Cobs                    Uparmanew                Opieplagns hs nah              R   R
family Viperide (Vipers)
;unmatrn Pit Viper                                   Traensan swnabass              R   R
ugh?s Pit Viper                     T,nm smm waoId                                       R              0
Tat bid specieshmillcrt bird spec:  9928   1096  3210
!amIly palaerocoracae (Connorants and Darters)
3niental Darer              Pecuk ubar              An/M*    meanogasfer                      0         0 p
!ANly Ardeidae (Heons. Egrets, Wght-herons. Bitterms
ey Hrn                      Cangak sb               Amidesv Oi .                              o
'hipl Herom                 Cawutpk 'a              Aides pups..                              a    0  0
Iumediale Egret             Kunbi peamk             Eg ht nrsleC                                        OP
Wn Powmwc          n        Bbkok uArespaed                                        R                                F.S
bb~~agg~~qer~~      Vcokrdu Isu&lDidws labion                                                0
-w*imn metn,                ICckokm                 bofrycm dm       ns0   0                  0
I
Stork                   -        A    dis0                               0            V.P      K
*  1                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Appendixz3.Page 4



Second draf; printed 01/11092
L    Adjtunt                 Sagu Ia                 LewbpiDposjwavar                0   R    0    0   O v.p    -
FWlUy Threakkwnithilda. (Ibss, Spoonbills)
ebck4-adedlim                Ibis kepahl abm          Th esarim  meanonphabs                    0            P
Family Accipitridme (Buzzards, Kites, Eagles Harriers, Hawks)
Bbck-winged Kne              Eking Mm                Elanus caenAwus                 0   0      0           Applf,P
Brahmlny Ilae               £Ehn bordo               HflhaurMndus                    0   0      0    0  .0 Appll.P
Whie-Beied Seagle          ESlungiltet pilh         Haefuslelcogasler                          0    0      Appil,P
Gray-lsded Fishbeagle        EuNg Im lepE  yl4bu    Ichophaga kIyflum                0   0      0        0 AppltP
Cred.Serpent Eal             Elang ulr               Sp11 cheS                       O   O      O           AppII.P   P
Crated Gaehawk                                       Atc*Nrupfus                     0                      Appli.P   P
Black Eagl                   Elrng hbm               kilnatus malayeni                   0     0            AppII.P   P
Rulous.bellled Eagle         Elung pent krst         I*rsaeius bine                 07  0                       I,P
Cangeble Hawk-eagle          Ehleg braok             Sflaus cirhaa                   0   .                  A ppIl.P
Family Falconkld (Falcons, Kestrdels Hobbles)
Black-highed Faklon          Alap  bpcapun          AMrohierax fthrgads                       0            AppIl,P
Fally Amtklde (Swans. Geese, Docks)
Wandering Whisaing-auck     BDai kenbang             Dendcya arcstala                                0
LesserMWhling-duci           Bdibis                  Dsnnsc ajvvatic                R,O       .
Whileiged Duck          S. at5                        Cabs* scuhdata                     R                  V,Appl.P  P
PaIic Slack Duck            lNk gunusg               Ana supeniosa                  07
Fanry Phaslanbae (Ouarls Partridges. Junglef9kls, Phemsants, Peafowl)
Bhe-breased Oui              Puyuh pepeh             Conuir ch*ms                   0                                F.S.K
Family Turncidae (BuUan-quals)
Bwred Bufln-qa               Pupyuh tgan rnwg        rTmb susdcaw                   0   0    0                       F,S.K
Famiy Ralildae (Ras. Crakes, Moorhens, Coots)
Slaty-brested Crie           Muar pad                Gagsno sfiahs                             0
Ruddy-breasted Crab          Mts mea PGar    Aes                                               0
Whits-breaded Waterun        Karuo                   Amiwrwnisph. w*wuns            0          0         0           F.S
Watereack                    Aym-eyaman              GaCau crie                     R                                F.S
Common Moorthen              Mandar babu             GaCnil cI*mpus                 R                                F.S
Purple Swamphen             lMwdiCenggerl            POqpwphYeDo                               0
KeSerp
Family Charadrildae Lapwings, Plovr, Dodrels)
Pcifc Golden Pler            TwEek lI-              FPnaE A*a                                  0
Lessend-                     Cerak                   Charsdhr mongo                     .      0
Family Scolopaddae (Curlws. Godwis, Snipes, Woodcocks, Sandpipersj                             0           P
Whimbrel                     Gajahan                 Numaniusph2apo                                         P
Btack-tfed Godwit            Biru hut ekDr hiam      Lnosa Ue:nsa                              0
Marsh Sandpiper              Triri rin               T*gns :iar a                              0 -
Comrnmon Greenshac           Triri belis him          1*g  asbdisia                            0
Teek Sarnpiper               Trird ldUc              XAIs dnrsm                                0
Common Sondpiper            Trinpeed                 Acfshypa cs                    0   0    .0    0  0
I Ruddy Tumstanr              Penibat bau             Arenahhs hulepes                    -    0
Asian Dowlw                  WBke Asia               Lho rs smr*SnsEls               .                     R, P
IP   Snij p                  SuiiSwMd                Gslnspema                      R                                FS
Puaut.ne Sgj                 Kedi        t           CdWsnecas                                 0
Faly Olaolldae Pr_a:t.s)
Oiert Prajnce                Tark                    Weelasmava.m           .       R                                F.S
Appendix 3, Pge S



-  . .,     pFm-ly Colunmbdam (Crocn Pig..s, Ffultoves, h_brela Pigeons. Dons)
j .   c4c.bIllmd Gren Pien    Pumi penA lbe            Tmrma cun*osbu                            0
weoGren Puetin         .    Pualnkec                 Trema cam                      0          0
pnhk-wcked Green Pon        Punalehr nah             Tnw vemans                     0   0      0                     FS,
j Gren Impeil P(.on                      Pegam W4mU               Du    son" .a 0                          0        0
Mountain In'pcne  P!ycr     Pergem gnung             Ducus bacts                               0
spolted Dove                Tekuhlr                  Sr opiopes chIiensis           0   0      0         0           K
ztbra Dave                  Pctut                    Geope. abte h                  O        O                       K
Emwaid Dove                 DuotNrkn                 ChGapaps hds a                 0                                K
Faily Psltadclde  Lorles, Lorikets Panelsk Cockaoos. Nanglng-parrols
Log-elld ParSkct            BdM  ekor p_r9ag         Psfcma Mngbauda                0   0    0              Appil    K,P
_inocn.d Hagki'g Pal    Sernd                        Ldm* elhs    a                 0.  0    0              AppOl   .K
Family Cucuildee (Haw*kcuckoos. Cuco, Koes.I Malkoba5. Coehials)
hdbn Cuckoo  .              BReleds nmaok            Cumn nwptms                    0   0
landed Bay Cuckoo          WVbAk khai                Ccomantis sonnmaa              0
Plaintive Cuckoo            Wihk kabu                Cocmninf nNium                 0   0    0
Chesnut-beUhed Mefthal                           526 RIIop*Ia sumarneraus                      0
Raffle(s MhsNhoS    RIhimf, ctionpbase                                                         0
cIestrmibreasled Malicea    Vadalan                 R- Ranpbococp cun*osss                     0
Inr COudW                   Bubtfi alangslan- CCnbopus bengas                       O   O        
Famlyt Tytonldas (Oes. Grassowls)
lSnOwl                      sira     -               Ty .auy                       O.R         0           AppIl    A
Family Strigidae (Scopsowis. Owle. Owig. Boobooks, WoodCWIS)
Co d Scopsovi               Cemk                     OausbhWirO.bakamosf)           0   0                  Appll
lurid Esgl-                 Hinidk                                                  0                      Appil
Bulif Finow                  Bbloiw                   KdbIWkeAZwv                    R                      Apl
FamnDy Caprdnulgldae NigthtJars)
Ujaysian Eared NMhtr                             602 Ewoslopdus bon*zcx             0   0
jlaried N     ar            Cubikcnug                C npnls                      |O mOa.. 0   0
NighIjar             Cobek numg kat           Caphaflm   t                   0   0    0
'Family Apodida. (Swils. Swiftlets. Needtals, s.Pallfts)
Glas Siti*   Waitsap                            .        c    scan                  0   0
SilwSrpd Swill               Ktphi pent ptRk Rbapidna bucopygfa                                0
lUleSwlSA                    Kepinisuinmh             Apusnirs                       0   0    0
*-Asian Palm-swit       -     unirig kedt             Cypskas balAwisos                        0         0
:FIIY  HNproculde (Tree-swARS)
Grey4urnped Tre-wift        Kepinfspahin             Hun*oa,e bngam*n               0   0
Whiskered Tree-swift                             633 Henpam   comets                          0
Fanily Alcedinidme (Kingfishers. Kookaburras)
Cnmri langr                  Strung udang            Akadoafl*                                0            P
lue-ered Qingr4her          Memnirnlin               Abodememat                     0   0    0          0  P
Oriaal Dwart Kwangn         Suung udag  al dha        Co .Sham                      0   0                  P
StI-bid Kirighw              Rap t       uh     u   P6Ipapstp-                      0   0    0          O P
While-hroated lGngllshv      Celkeak dads pulS       Hat yog wny'mufl               0   0    0       -     P
*             cbbk-cape aI*gihar         Celmkkc                 Hakpbso 0                                            p
CdOred KlrQlher             Cekd5  k                 Hieyon dbha                              0            P
F,miy MropidaRees               - .
hae4ded Se nds.   flt-l4k                            Mleops pflpbn                            0
-                                                      A
Appenixu 3. Pa,gc 6
_-i



* a:.  -                                                                                           Second daft; printed 0111 1/92
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*a
Fgidly Coracildae (Rollers, Dollarbirds)
Common DoUtabird             Tong Iampu.              Euryaunws ormnls                0   0      0
Family Bucerolidae (Hombills)                                            .
Whke-cr-rned Hombill         Keke                     Bemnlkomns comau is                                   0 P
Bushyacresled Hornbill                            697 AnnoalVnus g-':nbus             0          0            P
Wrdnided Hombil                                    M99 Rthyceros CGITU,WUS            0                       R.P       S
Wreathed Hombil              Juiang                   Rhyfeo undeabss                 0   0                   I.P
Asin Pied Hombl.                                  706 Anbtscocems atlsis                   0     0            ApplP
Rthhoco Hombl.               Rangkorg                 Bucems st*oces                       0     0            Appll.P
Great HNmbS                                       706 Sues= bksim                     0   0                   AppOl,P   S
Family Capiltonldae (Barbets)
Redcrowmed Barbel                                 714  Moegelan rSmen          *      0   0
YeIow led Barbd                                  719 M.aabina hAnud                  0   0      0
Bkured Brbet                 Tengret                  Megaa ustrals                        0     0
Bmwn Barbet                                       724 Cudanphushignous                0
Babel                                                AMegabina sp.                         0
Family Picdae ticuiets, Woodpeckers)
.Rufus Woodpecker             Pelatuk breng            Colbus bachyunh  -                        0
Checlkr4hrualed Yelrnipe     Pelabuk QLWung kmis abu   PiR n wetals                        0
Csrmsowinged Yelwnape        Peatuk gung lismis rmuh  PCUSpuOC.us                          0     0
Common Goldenback            PelSiuk besi jail hp     DnnpiumJavaens*                 0.
White-belied Woodpecker      Pelatuk bear hiOm        Dsyo sop vensr     .  *
Fulvous-breasled Woodpecker    Pelatuk ulam           Dentcopos necf                  0   0      0
Bwan-capped Woodpecker                            745 Dendocopos moAccenss   -                             0
PASSERIFORMES (Songbirds)
Farily Wwundia (Martins. Swaflows)
Bar S-flow                   Larglaymn Asia           Macb mas                        0   0      0         0 O
Pacdric Swankr               L      ayang Masin"*ucb taMes                            0   0                0
Funly Moacillie (Wagsils. PUpIl)
Grey Wagtail                 Ertod le    gMoo    dnie                                 0
Riarffs Pipt                 Apng                     Asn5csd. vaosoneeamn            0         0
Fsrv1y Carrephagidae Cuckoo-shrikes. Cicadbirds. Trlrs. s,linhwts)
Pied Tmhmr                   Kapsn                    Labgenia ng                         O
Family Pyrnonotidac (Bulbuts)
Sooty-headed BmLbd           Kutabng                  Pycrnonohas *aL'.'zbft              0      0           Feral
Ytiiow-vtrnWed BuLb          Cerukcuk                 Pycnonchls roiatior             0   0      0        0
Family Irenidae (rias. Leafbirds, Fairy Bluebirds)                                                                .
Co mon kra                   Clpoh                *   A.gW**isa                       0   0     0
Gram  n           l          Clpoh hrjsu                      v* Cs
Blue.wred Lflbird            Bumx dfaut s         biu      0s        _               0   O      O
; Golde-fored LsetdW                         -      M Ch7D   m as  us                            O
Famiy Laniida (Shts)
*Lotiled Slvt                 Bafetl                   Lauissdlad                                0
*F.t y Turdiae Sbotwgs. Fokttils. Cochoas. Ge.rsaa,Tnmtbe)
Appendix 3, Page7
t



no Magpe-Ai.                Kca            .         Copsychus uaa                       O     a 
F.mly Thuaidae (Dabbles. Wrn.babblirst LaughlgAhflhUds. Fulvettes)
porsfields) Babbler         Kucan Surda              Tdchastama d. sopladum                     0        0
lAped Tf-babbler            Clang                    iaemnos gais                        .          4
F;wal1 _ylvIldae' (Tesla;  stutalis, WJarble. Clslcoiaa, Pdinlas, Tailrbirds)
Red-warbW                   ICak bals                Acmcep6aius sp.                           O
DngCidiccl.                 CiSd- tpseaaI   Es                         .            O   O    O
Gddanhe dd ChUSola          Ck! mah                  CLscda aexs                    O
WWg  Puni                   Prjmsaap  gaS           PFS.o Vanfads                  00         0
YWvbeed PSInl       -       Pninjak p-rul: lUng      POUsa lwntis                   0   0    0           0
gautcekd Talmbtrd                               1014 O CIhIoI     a*S                          0
shy Tald                                      . 1016  OhVOiRu sps                   0   0    0
Fwmily Acanthllda iMMuse-warbler. Scrub-wrens. Thombills. Gerygaes)
Fymaer                      Bernng reaeluk           Gerygone suahuw,. -                       0
FInrly Monardhldan  acatches. Maoarchs BoatbIs, Fantens)
Mad Fanial                  ICpesan                  Rh4kwjaijvamce                      0    0         0  P
Fafily PacIYCepblda (P_oguhbl. Whistes Shdkelhrsh   PlIohuls)
Mbrow WhsUa                                     1186 PachyrUpha gdtaa               0
Fanly Sittkda (NuthatAbos. Slttefls)
VdYet4-red Nudhdh           Gelset nmurguk    -      SNte bansh                                         0
1Fanly Dicasda (Berypers. Fwowe:cker)
IFbwmpedcer                 BSwung cabs        -     * nd  sp.                                 O
cSlet-backed    -                               1249 Dcaeum meafwsn                 0
Fbwerpecdw                  Surtig cabs              Dicsumsp.                                O
jFArnrly Nedawnikde (Sunb`rds, Spidehunte
*SAun-Uraded Sunbird  *      xml B na  kelepa        Anfnpts maacmn.                           0
:Oilv-ba     Surbird         Sutin mda kwaning       M ctaS      Wft                     0    0          0
Faly Zosteropide (Whte.eyes. SlackY.)
jOrien AtaltWdeeye          tunig kcunrala bina      Zwbopst   pflabnxsus                      0
Fanily Estrildide (FIretails. Parrotlhamchs Munias, Spaows
Whifteulntped Muns                              1393 LWndUh snIa                               0
hi,an  AiI Eap                                       Landm bueogasffds                        0
1395 Lachwua ascens                                    O
;3caty4reased Muals          Pd.g.             ;     Lanchw pmnfaa                  0   0    0    0  0               p
. -bedked Muria              Bondol pent poSh   .    Lonchura feucogasta             0   0    0                      p
ChesInLt M-xa               Bsndol hiam              Lonchura mafacca               0   0     a                     p
Whir-headed Munia           Bmo ha:                  Lonchura maja                  0   0     a                     p
aFwaly PlMcede (Sparrows. Wvers)
*         Tree spanrow                  tuing gee              Passarmonantus                  0   0    0
p wer                         enyp                   PbcesplR*Wus                   0   0    0                      p
Family Shndee (StrIngs. Mynas)
C en  My          :                             1432 A      bdoSms  isff            0   0                           S.K
%ThIs-wntud SMa=            JaMb &iW                 AaWbOsesio haruaws             0                      FP.      K
. o                          Beo.S                   G  a               .           0   0    0             Fue       S,K
3 8                               JAppendix 3. Page 8
I*                    _  _  _                                              _   _  _   _  _   _    _   _  _  _   _



Second drft; prinltd 01/11/92
,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.gsIy Cloud.. (Oroles. Figbirda)
pack4pId Orbole             l podano                 OSdas d     t a                     0     0                      K
jmly Dkiruedal (Drngos')
pjhy Drogo                                      1460 Okrfnus Isucophausu            0                                      ..
Lsser Raquet-Lald  Prongo   Smaern bender pasir      DcNns tuniWsO 0
c/ater Raquetailed Drongo   Saeran benders balu      DjcnIus parad5ss.              0   0
FoWly Artmdn &OWoeswallows)..  
pam"ll   d Woodqwallowur buah                        Manmus leucuynchus             0   0      0         0
F-lily Corvdaen (Jays, Magpies, rfeeples, Crows)
amr4d-blhd Crow             Gagalc                   Corwvscfa                           0
*.   arge-billed Craw            Gaok                     Coes  wmI                      0          0
Total mannr speoksslgn      spads:  35/15   17m10   26/10
Fuily Erinac.de (Gynmures)
toar at                     Thus BSuan               Eehomx gymwus                       R
Fwmly Sorida. (Shinws)
Hhe Shrew                                            Suns nmurvs                    R7
CaaL: 7.                                                        .       R   R
Family Tupal-da.
LaerTr.euhew                Tupal                    TapaZ mhor                                          0         .
Frly Cynocephald- (Flying Lemurs)
FWl  Leur                   Tsndo                    Cpvcblus vasepgas                   Rf              R
Ftily Pteropodida (Fruit BtUs)
Large FlyiS Fox             Kaong                    M.eis v.mpyn- R                           0                     F
Faniy Ealbonurklas (Shen.talabats)
erShealhtalbt                                        Embalan  moab                 *    0
Family Lor    (ok)
Slow Loas                   Kukrg                    Alsteucaucang                                         AppIl:P
Famil Ceroplthecidae (Monkeys)
Slered Lasl MonJy           hLSzng                   rJdcprwau adts                 0   0    OR   R   0 ApplI  *
Lgiled Macaqu               Kerakera                 Macae Iasdakdw     -          O.Ft O,  . OR   .R  0 ApplI.   K.P
Priewa  Aacaque             Beru                     Mac as _sb.Oa OA  R.F   .R                         it Ail    K.P.A
Ptbsi  -onke                Bekcanten               AMascifaklLawsn0VAp   
F"o.Sqt   E                 Nsbs                                        . .   O  V~~~~~~~~~~~~~0%Appl;P: tK
Red or Banded Leaf-M ynkey   .                       Psbyls sp.                       .                 R
Fari.y Hylobaldas (Gibbons)
jA    n Gibbon               Nysmang                 HlyAbals aglEs                 R.C R.C                 Appi:P
uSimang    .                                         Synph.Itangndacqubs                       C
Fn Cans Pgs)
ommesog DAghig                                       CaI baiCias                    0   0           0  0
FunNy Urkt     PM)                                                                                                                  w
spw                    ebnBng                  M    msuka                    R   R    f             ApptP   P.S
F ly Museid  ( m  nd Weasels)
Conmm C                     Oi rangbea               Lafra                          R O                    Apft      P
Appendix 3. Page 9



gaUcwid Olr                  Beimngemang              Aonyx dem.                                  R     R  R  K
fodly Virbe (Clvsts} -
CwYnon Piame UCnt           Mung                      Pna,doxws hxnnaphftis           R?   R      R
*FllIy Failda. (Cats) .
|smatin nga          HrtrlHau                  Pandra Ugis                     R   0    O.R             E:Appl:P  S
.Clouded Leoprd              Macan                    Naolals nebulam                  R   R                   V;Appl;P P
gCpurdCat                   Macan AkJr                Fab bengaeIa,                        0     R     R    R AppII;P
_tkCst.C                     KuCh                     fs4cttu                         0   0      0     0  0O
Furdly Delphinidas (DophIns)
OsIplilnIdpe                         R           R
nly Suda (Pig)
,     Beurdd  Pig            abi Hutan               Sus babahs                      R   R       R         R V         P
Nd Pig                      B OW                     Susscwa                        O.R O.R   O.R          R           P.K
la Ty Iragulkla (Mou"-dee
MOerM   ~r               Napu                     Tras" nayu                      R                        P
Mr  ame                     Knci                     TragulusJ varS                  R   R                   p         F.S
lyCenrvia (D)
Dow                   Ruma                      Cwms unkbr                      R   R .              R P
n Yulow Mujac               Kijag ma                 Mun a.u alhard.s                                     R
y Dovk   (Canl Nd  Goats)        '
Bardhg Cam                                     aBsJwm*us.                     0   0                             A
e atW Bulaba           .ubahbubas                                         .   0   0            O  0             A
Goat                                           Capaitihc                      00               0 0              A.-
Madnim   (Aneaters)
Tr-ngglng                PAftisJovanki                   R   R      R    R   R A 1ptI;0
i7SCIurid.. (Squirrels)
Win Squirrl                Tupi-                     CaUosurm rausha                     0           R
Squifrd            ..                           CU      ladsp'.vus                   0           0   R
Grourmd Squind    Bajing                   Lanscus hmso4                                        R
. S SquirFe                       Tupal                    Swilsdcusbwf                    0
* tGilU FlnSquirreI         Tupei tebag              Peaufs* pefluafsfb                   0               R
-        rrond.Squirial                                  Rbafiasrus macros                                    R
Murida IRaft and Mice)
Rat                  Tblwsswai                 Ramargmnwus s                   R O       R?                     p
.v   *n Rat                                          Raffusaxufans                  R7  R            R? R?            p
NAFta -fkR      fTikusnjmah                         Paeusranls                      R?  R      R                      P
.-ranr Wod Rat             Tikus Seulkar             Rafus hbomuikcus                                R, R?            p
'~7Hysriddtas (PorcPInes)
,  .' -    nPem                Laak                     }yah*birachUh                   R   R                R P
.A                                                                                                                                         .



APPENDIX 4
POPULATION STATISTICS FOR THE ISDP SCHEMES AND KABUPATEN, WEST KALIMANTAN
: OP .LATION             IwU   p,g:IO:                     PERSONWHAt 
CnnaIatCne.             *        -i .o* iw.;o                '* D AL-ra vu990  :  .6, t' -
TIELUi PAKWA  
Sohung                        31                1.241                                                   2.5
Sonm I                                           521                                                    1.4
Kiso honin                                      2.727                                                   .3
Tanjingsungo                  31                2.003                                                   1.5
Tsluk G.1.m                    a                 72S                                                    0.0
Swat Romig                    47                4.721                                                    1
Tduk Pokhol HNAu              43                3,469                                                   1.4
TolukPakodal II                7                1.033                     771                          0.4
Toiwk PokedlI                 35                2.192                                                   V.A
P.f Pudi                      14                1.302                    1.145                         1.1
Modus.                         4                giS                       795                          0.5
So 1o                         47                1.27                    ,1,733                        2t0
!AouJ is" V                   10                O1.0_5                   711                          0 0
Tow                           24               24.317                    s.220                         1.2
Tmeung DAM                    20                303                                                    a.
Toluk En Fespnig              25                583                                                    4.4
Toluk ovxw                    45                1.037                                                  4.1
Pofuouo                       40                250                                                    I a
Pootoil                       33                1.355         .                                        Lb
Toronwog K4r                  35                1.075                                                  3.3
Toenang Tonpo                 30                2.031                                                  1.7
T.ronwn ge i                  41                923 424
Tocoung "Uls 3                37                904                                                    4.1
Donjh                         100               252                                                   33.7
Monol       .33                                 244                                                   13.5
PTr So! Red.                                                            3.366
Tows                 ~~~~~~~~~451t      9.023                    3.366    *s
KUU                                .-
Kitu                          235              4.636                     .       .                    5.1
Co-a2 Kus                     174              3.'52                                                  4.5
ODboo                         249              1.177  '                                               20.5
SnowSt1                       110           -  2.643                                                  3. 
Sonewt m                      S0               1.453          .                                       3.4
5. Soomt                     l a               an9                                                   1.4
S.pos   alom                 15                aa           .                                    .   3.m
1_nibn                        1SO              2.334                                                  5.6
Aftowogp55                                     1.731                                                  3.1
Knpung                        3                1,41                                                   2.
PIno L'o                      22               2.211'4                   as                            I
Air Nht                    -  24               2.013                    1.344                         1.2
DSP Tjngko                    23               2.371                    2.313                         0.3
DS 5' Ter             .       13               1.1 3                    1.003                         I.S
DSP P.iDtn                    13          .     44                       31S                          1.3
DSP Jorngong                  20               1.211   .      :         *1.144                        1.7
TouStk &nno                                      6 _    _ 5
TowS                         1.23         .   30.271                    1.1844                         4
SUN0AO KAKfAP
Swtd Kop                      23          .     .214          a.,a0                                   0.3
seol hI                       25               3.3:80                   2."31                         0.7
oo r                          21          .   4.455                     4.005                         0.5
-NoiK 5 IhI                   24          -    2.052                    1.730                     -   1.2
S tw    Ra;                   42          :   5.155                     5.701                         0.3
Pal IX                        47               3.061  ;                 0.330.6
.  5g 0Jd.Ie ;                13               2.12D                    1.313                         0.3
Kate,,.                     ' 46               7,124                    5,004                         0.6
Pjwlgg  Kdl                   46               3.123                    3.476                         0.5 
Pe%@a -, e0 o                                  3.400                    7.517                         0.6                          b
TqEw'                         41               5.15s          .                                   -  0.3
_os_s                         43               2.37                                                   L1
P_yu eLAwon                   20'              3.403                    1.06                         0.3
;..- *j_,.                                      14 -             4.es5   ,                4.157                         0.3
.mJoi"                        15               3.27                    3.253                         0.5                            9
_in" JoyoE                    21               3.102                   2.8                           07.
' Z!    .::> ;   ,  !e                     34               1.245                    1.2.5                         27
:, _ ,;   *                    _4                               3T*2.3 44                33.4S7                         0.7
.f- -    -'P                                                                  I
~ .
-                                                                         W - -
w S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



APPENDIX 4                                                                                                     * .
.~~~~ ,                           A   '$   .  . . ..
Si Revs                                                                                              .      .
Sol Ray. (Toitd            3n                r.
.d XtIm 11                                                        . 47a
. Teed                      923                                    1.47Y
T TOTAL                     2,522           1453381  _z,a 10                                   1.7
.---- -- --- -- .-___  
-A-r~~1-
Pap.2
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
..
.jJ  ~~~~~.
.-. 
_ a.
~~~2-~~~
:i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 



5. 
:ebh : PASS Solis and Its Risks Relbted to Eanhworks
PASS SOIL RISK CLASSES WITH POTENTIAL EP /IRONMENTAL IMPACT
ISD   L'WIo Sdl Sub.group                HA                                      -Risk' Cbass
Wes1 Kalimantan
Jawi/Kalimas        Typic Sulfaquents          2.7-3.2        7.5%; 25-50 cm    moderate
Sei Betuw           Terric Su/fihernists        2.9           4.8%; 25-50 cm    moderate
Typic Sulfohemists       .  3.4           4.7%; 25-50 cm    moderate
Pinang Dalam        Typic Suvfohemists          3.4           7.47~6 0-25 cm    moderate
Pamusiran           Suvfic RFuvoauenetas        2.9           5.3%; 25-50 cm    moderate
Lambur              3eicTraposaprists           3.1            5. 1 %; D-25 cm    moderate
Typic Sulfaquents           3.2           4.9%; 25-50 cm    moderate
Dendang I           Teric Tropofibrists          3            3.4%; 50-75 cm    moderate
Dsndang II          Termc Troposaprist          3.4         2.7-3.7%; 75-100 cm moderate
Smp Pandan          Hemic Troposaprists       0.2-i.1         3.9%; 0-25 cm    low -moderate
Sapric Tropofibrists        6.1           5.7%; 25-50 cm    high
Terric Troposaprists      3.0-5.9        12.5%; 75-100 cm  moderate-high
Riau
Delta Reteh         Teric Sulfihemists        1.4-2.5       3.8%; 100-200 cm  moderate
Haoplic SuMf.quents         2.7           3.8%; 25-50 cm    moderate
Typic Sulihewists         1.5-1 7       3.8%; 10O-200 cm  low #1
Tempuring         vSurfic Fluvaquents           2.8          3.9%; 25-50 cm    moderate
Typic Troposaprists       0.6-0.7       2.5%; 140-200 cm  low #1
oieic- Tenpic               0.6         2 7%; 170-200 cm  low #1
iRsk' Clase Determsned an Average Pvhk Conent of 0-12l cm Soil
- "ah C 2A4%   : Le
- Pyah 2.445%: Modete
- Pyre > A5%   : High
I1: included becmae rlmtwve h;gh pwyte content blOA pest o
SWil data extracted fromTR 4. Vol II 'Risk' dasses d ived from Poen. 1975
._ .
-   1                        
. .: X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,'   a.'  , , *,  eI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d



l *D E   S s; :_; _    ^  2zlj                                                                                       Second dtnft; pnlned 01111/92
1  7                 7              Physan              __       .    7N N Y                                       ?
_2    A_ PT ICI Pestfslda            Omile 570 ea      Proparvite 570 gil                Y NMCY    l W pe eSA  l
3  A   Mobay Chemical, USA          Alsystln 25 wp    Triflumoron 25%                   N N Y Onlons, Chill pepper, Snake beans, Soybean.
4  AJF  PT Bayer                    Morestan 25wp     Oxythloqulnox 25%                 NIN Y Apple,ea
5  A/i PT Pe(rok(mla Kayaku         Mltac 200 ec      Amiltraz 200 gl    _              N N Y Chili pepper, Soybean, Tea
0  A/I               ?           .  Rogor L40         Dimethyl-S-(N-Methyl-carbamale)    N N Y None notpennMitted)
7  B   PT Pfizer                    Agrlmycin 15/1.5wp Streptomycin sulfate 15%         N N Y Potalo, Tomalo
__________________________ -_______________   Oxv tetracyclln   1.5%
8  1   CV Jasa Agro Mandirl         Agrept 25 wp      Streptomycln sulfate 25%          N N Y Tomato
9   F   PT Buml Della Klmiatania    Benlate T         Benomil 20%, Tlram 20%            N N Y Peanut, Soybean, Rice, Beans
10   F   PT Sumi Delta Klmilatma     Benlate           Benomil 50%                       N N Y Apple, Clove, Orange, Beans, Peanut, Rubber,
Coffee, Potato; Pepper, Rice, Tomato,
w. . . _ ________________                                                             Sugarcane
11   F   Rhone-Poulenc Agrocarb      Zlncofol 68 wp    Captafol 50%, Copper 12%, Zinc 6%   N N Y Onlon, Potato, Tomato
12   F _PT Indagro                   Oilhocide SOwp    Captan 50%                        Y N N Soybean, Tea, Tobacco, Onion, Chill pepper
13   F   PT Bumi Della Kimlatorna    Delsene MX-200    Carbendazim 0.2%                  N N Y Chill pepper, Clove, Peanut, Rubber, Polalo,
_________________________ ._____________ .Mancozeb 73.8%                      _       Rice, Tobacco, Tomato
14   F  PT Sarana Agropratama        Derosal 90 wP     Crbendazlm 80%                    N N Y App2e, Rubber, Sugarcane
15   F   PT Exindo Rahada Pratama    Dacohil 75 wp     Chlorothlonl                      N N Y Onlon, Peanut, Coconut, Potato, Tea, Tomato
16   F   PT Krlkras                  Cobox             Copper oxychloride 50%            N N _ Clove, Cocoa, Orange, Vanilla, Tea, Tobacco
17   F   PT Sarana Agropralama       VilAgran blue     Copper oxyc lorlde 60%           Y N N Cocoa, Coffee, Tea
18   F   Rhone-Poulenc Agrocarb      Allette    . .    Fosetyl aluminum.                 N N Y Coconut, Pepper
18   F  IPT Indagro                  FuJiwan 400ec     Isopr_tlolan 400 gA               N N Rice---
20   F   PT Indagro                  Kasumin 20 AS     Kasugamycln 20 gA                 N N Y Rice, Chili pepper
21 . F   PT Kumia Dian Petmnal       Dilhane M-4i      Mancozeb 80°6h.                   N N Y Onion, Clove, Cocoa, Peanut, Coconut, Potato,
Coffee, Clnchona, Vanilla, Tea, Tobacco,
- omato, Pelsal, Roselia
22   F   PT Bumi Delta Kimialama     Manzate           Mancozeb 83%                      N N Y Rubber, Potat, -Toba
23  _   PT Harlna Chemicals          Velimek 80 wp     Maneb 72%, Zineb 8%               Y N NIChili pepper, Clove, Potato, Tomato
24   F   PT Citraguna Saranalama       Idomil 35 sd    MetalaxlI 35%                     Y_N_N_Com_.
25  F   PT Indegro                   Ingropasia        PCNB, Qulntozdne 20%              N N Y Rubber
26   F   PT ICI Pestisida            Fomac 2         _PCNPE QunNozene 20%                 N N_ Rubber
Appendix 6, Page I



I Rs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~am dnA;,pdnidOi I I1 19
27  F    PT Eiayer                    Anlrscol 70 wp     Propineb 70%                      Y N Y Onion, Chill pepper, Clove. Ora-nge. Peanut.
'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oao Cichna Pepr Tea Tobacco,
28   F   PT Bayer                     Bayleton 250 ec    Triadimefon 250 gal               N N Y Rubber, Soybean, Coffee. Tea, Tobacco
29   F   PT Krtkras                   Calixn             Tuidernorph                       N N Y Rubber, Tear
-30   F  IPT ICI Pestisdid             PP Zineb 8owp     Zineb 80%                         N____N___________________
31   F. ICV Standard                * Tlezene 80 wp      Zineb 60%                         N I N I Y Tobacco.
32 TH   PT Cliraguna Saranetama       Rilof H            2.4.DN Piperaphos                 N      TIN b Rice
33  H   Pacific Chemicals Indonesia   DMA-6         ___ _D 720         _ __   Y Y N Rubber, Rice, Sugarcane, Tea
34   J  IPT Indagro                   Indamin 720 hc     2.4.D 7204 VA                       N N Rubber, Rice, Sugarc-ans. Tea
35  H   PT Monagro Klmia              Lasso_Alachlor 400 g/l                               N N Y Soybean, Peanut, Rubber
36  H   PT ICI Pestilsda              Dlran 950          Dluron 80%                        Y N NJ?
37  H   Hoechst, Germany              Olran 950          Dluron 82.45%.    J. N_ NNone (no Iongerpenltffet
38  H   PT Sarena Agropratama         Basta              Glufosinate 200gI                 Y N Y Cocoa, Rubber, Oilpaim, Coffee, Tea, Clove,
Suaarcane
39  H   PT  rtwljaya Pakuan SeJati    Scout              Glyphosate 180 gal                NIN Y Rubber
Picloram 22 g/i
40  H   PT Mitra Kreasldharrha        Spark1 §           Glyphosate, Isopropylamine 160.4 g/l  N N Y Rubber, Olpalm
41   H   IT Srwijaya PakuanSiati       Eagle IPA         Glyphosate, Isopropylamine 480 g/l   N N Y Rubber, Oipaim, Tea, Fallow land
42  H   Rlhone-Poufenc Agrocarb       Roundup            Glyphosate, isopropylmmine 450 g/i   YY Y Clove, Cocoa, Rubber, Coconui,-Oilpalm,
Coffee, Tea, Acacia
43  H   PT Cliragung Saranatama       Dual 500ec         Melolachlor 500 p/i               N N Y Onion, Chill pepper, Com. Rubber. Soybean,
I ,Cabbage, Cassava
44  H   Rhone-Poulenc Agrocarbt        Ronstard 083183cc Oxadiazon 83 g/l, 2,4-D 83 gA     N Y N Rice
45   H   PT ICI Poslisida             Pars-Col           Paraqual 200 gil, Diuran 200 g/   Y N N  love, Cocoa, Colton, Rubber, CoconCit,
...       Sugarcane, Olpailm, Coffee, Pepper, Rice, Tea,
-Cassava
46   H   PTICIPestisida               Agroxone 4         Potassium MCPA 400 gii            Y N Y Rice, Com, Rubber, Tea
47   I  PT Indagro                    Orthene 75 sp      Acephate 75%                      Y N N Clove, Orange, Cocoa, Colton, Soybean,
.   Coconut, Oilpaim, Potato, Cabbage, Coffee,
Dipel ~~~~~~~~~~~~-Pepper, Sugacmans, Tobacco, Tomato
48   1  PT Kapo Trading               Dipel              Bacillus thuringlensis 16,000 lU/rm  N N Y Cabbage, TomaTo
49   I  PT Bayer                      Buldok             Beta cyfluthrln 25 gIl            N N Y Onion, Chill pepper, Cocoa, Cotton, Tea.
Soybean. Olipalm, Cabbage, Pepper, Tobacco,  .. ,.
-_- - - Tomato Potato
' Appendix 6, Page 2                                                   ;            'W I
,                              S
___* ,,-s.  4,, ,



i                                                                                 3cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sond dran pintedA 01111192
50b   I  PT Bhayrn  Ba.Dayeaurb                          BPMCaroua 3Ys                      N YlOnion, Coilcoa   r Syen.Rc
60      IPT Purana Agropatama         Furadan C0reoruPan 4 %  NA-N Y YClovea Sorbang, RCatOnPoaoPeprRie
52   1  Rhne-Pouenc Agocarb  iltop  BMO 4809/1, Fnobucab          N Y-  SuCocan, SyenRie-Tea, Tobacco,Tmt
63 .1   PT 11Petrolmlda Kaykulabror 500 ea              BPChioflazr O 0   YI                N Y. Onono, Chillan Pepper. oo, Rcoto, Coybean
54   1  PT Pacirmc Cheicaga          urhaabas' 20  c  OPChirlo 200 gIA                  Y Y Y Onion. Chill pepper, RCocoSua,Crn,Ccoanu
83   I  PTIC Pesroimlsa kak           Nemrobd 200 ec    Chuoprifmas 200 gil               N N Y  nin Chlie epr oba,Cba'
64   I  PTKRhoePuang  mAgrMscar       Sevinr Use        Cyprbryelhn 850                  YIYV   N Chili Pepper, Cottoa. Soybean, Coconut.l
Cabbagne, Tea, Tobacco.Tmt
65   1  PTrC Psara.sArodaam           Dec15o 2560 so     ehitlametrln 25 g/l             N N YlOln Chill pepper, Cr,Cocoa, Coeans, Cottoan,
SOybpanOlipi, Cabbage, Peppeacc, Tema,o
68   1  PT CPtacgcn Carenicams        Dasudan 60 ec      hlazpyinon 600 gil                    Y Cnorn, Orange Soyeane, Cocoa,uCa, Cabbnge.
___   _____________________   _____________                         V   ~~ ~~Soybean.   Coconut, O abp age. C abb gw To a o
663 1P PIrk  lKyk                     Petoban 200e       iChlorpyvos 500 g.i             NIN Y Orcids, Corn, Coffper. Toyean,Cb
69   I  PT Bayer  Dedeap        Dichlorvos 850 il                N N V Cinchona,Cabbage, e , Tobacco
71   I  PT Sarana Agropralama        Thcisa 3.5 cc      Dendltamehn 350 gI               Y Y Y Corn, Cocoar, CottCoon,SoBeans, Cottonu,Chl
Soypeane, Olipaim, CncoabbCoafe, Pepper. e,
TobaccoT                     bac
672   I PT IIPetrolmsidayk            Dagztinon          en iazotion                      Y i NV Ciottoan, Coyben,t.Caconue, OjpaM, epr
-                             _________________________               Tob~~~~~~~Suacco .Ta.Tbac
Appendix 6, Page 3



A ". 'N                                               ~- ' -Second daft; printd 01II 1192
76   I  PT Indagroa  Kmithol n 50 ec    Fenisrochbon 50 g%                                Y N Y Onlon, Cocoa, eeans Cofybean, CoconutR
_                       ,              _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~Pepper, Tobacco
741  1  PT Bayer                      Lebacyd 550 Mc aenhlohn 550 gN Y N Y Orangei Beans. Peanut, Cocoa, Soybean,
_ _ __      __                                      -      Cinchona, Peaper, Tea, "arcane, Tobacco
751   IPT Mitra Kreasrdhorma          FeTval 200 ea      Fenvalerate 200 gAl               N N Y Onion, Cocoa, Soybean
70   1  PT Kosmos Raya                Mavr7k 50 ea       Fluvallmale 50 /1                 N N Y Onion, Chill pepper, Soybean, Cabbage, Tomato
77 _I  PT Ohargna Nlaga               Dhrrmacin 50 wp   esoiradarb So40                    N N Y CRlc, Pepper O
78   1  PT Pelrokimia Kayaku          Mlpcln 50 wp4_0   Isoprocarb 50%                     Y N Y Cocoa, Soybean, Coffee, Pepper, Rice
79,      Chemlfln Jaya Utamna         Harcroo MalatNon 50se  Malalhlon 500 gril            N N Y None (no kongerpermJifedO_ 
80   IPT Bayer                        Mesurol _Mercaptodimethur 50%                        N N _ Chill pepper, Potato
8Oi R1PTneaPo                         Montior            Melhamidophos                     N N Y Onion, Cocoa, Cotton, Soybean. Oilpalm,
___Cabbage, Tea. Tobacco
b. iI  PT Bayer             Tamaron 200 Ic    Monhamidophos 205 gA                         Y N Y Onion, Chilo pepperC Orange, Beans, Soybeanc
86   I                                                           _r Ai_a Abadi Pestisida  Gusadrin  Moi1ocrotovi'~~fl~j/l  N N V Onio Coconua, Cabbage. Tobaciom Tea, Tomato
873      PT CitPeguns Saranatama      Suprshde 40 ec    Methidahlhon 420 N/               Y N Y Chill pepper, Orange. Peanti, C eansb , Pocoa,
8 : I  Rhone-PoulencAgrocarb   Corsair 100cc     Purnielhrtn 100 gIl                      t   V Cocoa,aSoybe an , Coffee, Cabbage, tea,
Su-a raneT Tobabco, Tomaco
84   I  Rhone-Poulenap amLa rb        Melhavin           Merhomyl N4I N Y Onlon,CCabbae Tobacco
85   I  PT Karan Emas Musaika         Ahodhrn 15 wsc    hMonocroophos 150 gn               Y N V Onion, Com, Coppon, Beans, Soybean, Tobacco
Be   I  PT Alfa Abadl Pestisida       Gusadrln           Monocrolophos 150 DnI             N N IY Onlon, Cocoa. Soybeart, OiDpalmn, Tea. Tobacco
87   1PT ICI Pes(isida                Ambush             Pome_d                            N N Y Cotton. Soybean. Oilpalm, Cabbage. Pepper,
_        acc Tobacco
88       Rhone-PoulencCAMrocarb       Corsair 100 ec     Pemtnethan 100 g/l                Y N Y Coban, Soybean, Olpalm, Cabbage, Tea,
Tobacco
89 _     PT FadJapumarna Pratama Intl Dessin 5ec         Pehnephidn 43 gii                 N N Y Cabbage.
90   I  PT Dharmna N maga             Dharmasan 500 cc  Phenphote 600 g                    Y N Y On Onon, Chill pepper, Cotton, Soybean. Pepper,
_   SuParane, Tobacco
91   I  CV Jasa Agro Mandirl          Elsan 60ec         Phenthoale 050 gA1                N N Y Soyen Cabae Pepper
92  '1  PT Cilra9una.Saranalama       Dlmecron 50 scw    Phosphamidon 500 g/l              N N Y Clove Orag,Ban.Ccnt, Glam
Coffeej ea
83   1  PT ICI Pestlslda              Sllosan       _ Plrimlphos melhyl                    N N Y Storage pests
84   1  PT Cllraguna Saranatama       Curacron S00 ec    Prfnfs _      /                   Y N Y Cotton, Onion, Chill peppr. Orange. Eleans.
_                         ,                                       _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P61ato, Cabbage, Sugarcane, Tobacco. Tornl
-... .
Appendix 6, Page 4
44                                               e 4-



Sac od dnft; pinted 01111192
95l   PT 1ayer              . Tckulhlon          Prolhiofcs 500 g/                 N IN  Y _10nion, Chill pepper. Cabbage, Tobacco, Potato,
86   I  PT Sarana Agropralama          Hostalhlon 40 ec    frlazFpilos 420 gA                N N Y Chli pepper, Com, Orange, Cotton, Soybean,
Oilpaim, Potato, Coffee, Cabbage, Pepper,
_ . . . .. .  . . .  *. .  . * ':.......... -  _ _ _Tomato
07  I/N  PT Agromarb                   Temik IOg          Aldicarb 10%                       N Y Y None (no longerpermifttedj   _
98  I/N  PT Bayir                      Curaterr 3 g       Carbofuran 3%                      Y Y Y Cotton, Soybean, Coconul, Potato, Coffee, Rice,
________ ________ ________Sugarcane
go   N   PT Buuml Delta Klmiatama      Vydate 100 as      Oxamyl 100 Oln                     N N Y Polato. Tomato. Tobacco, Coffee
100   R   PT ICI Pestisida              Klerat             Brodlfacoum 0.003%                 N Y Y_
101   R   PT Petrokimis Kayaku          Pelrocum RM B      Brodlfacourn 0.005%                N _ _  _YY_                    _
_   .YE                                            CumulaUve list of PesUcides commercially available In ISOP schemes at:
A a Acartclde           ___ Jambi: * Ranati Rasau pasar Ski 7
B x Bactericide                                                a
- - t  F a Fungicdde                                         ' Nlpah Panjang
H a Herbicide'                                         ' Muara Sabak harbourMlilage
I* Insectcide                                          I a number of small hamlets
N  Nemalackde                                     ffau:. .* Rumbal Jaya, Reteh.
R 3 Rodenticide                                 -W Kaliman_an: Pontianak.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it _          _        pt Im>1 'P slfsfdo uniuk PerfrJnM don KehJlanan i991
-~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ' J ' 
AIpendii 6, Pugo 5
Appendix 6, Page S






