Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22018
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37550; SCL-3755A; SCPD-3755S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 65.00 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 30, 2001
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of Sept./Oct. 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp. 1,000,000 = US$ 125.0
US$ 1 = Rp.8,000
FISCAL YEAR
OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD            Agency for Agricultural-Research and Development
BAPPEDA         Provincial Development Planning Office
BAPPENAS        National Development Planning Agency
BOQ             Bill of Quantity
BPN             National Land Agency
CRF             Capital Revolving Fund
DGE             Directorate-General of Estate Crops
DGFCH           Directorate General for Food Crops and Horticulture
DGWRD           Directorate General of Water Resources Development
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP          FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FRR             Financial Rate of Return
FSTA            Farming Systems Technology Adaptation
GOI             Government of Indonesia
GWDP            Groundwater Development Project
ISDP            Integrated Swamps Development Project
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PASS            Potential Acid Sulfite Soil
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
TDU             Tertiary Demonstration Unit
WATSAL          Water Sector Adjustment Loan, Loan No. 4469-IND
WUA             Water Users' Association
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   llham Abla, EACIF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3755-IND)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                              1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                             1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                   2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                      3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                       10
6. Sustainability                                                                           11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                            12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                          14
9. Partner Coimments                                                                        15
10. Additional Information                                                                  31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                        32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                        34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                        37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                        38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                        39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                           40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                       41
Map             IBRD  24868, 24869, 24870, 24871, 24872 and 24873
FAO/CP Team, Led by K. Mei is acknowledged for their cooperation in preparing the draft of this ICR, before it was finalized by I. Abla We are grateful to
the peers reviewer: G. Feder and T. Walton, and other readers: S.D. Mink, W. Cuddihy, S. Agarwal, H. Bruneau, T. Hadiyati, A. Lambertus, and S.
Soemardjo for their comnments and contribution. S. Wohon, C. Belita, and C. Dharmajaya provided their assistance and logistic to finalize this document.
Finalization of this documents was guided by comments given by G.Garcia-Rivero
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003937                                       Project Name: INTEGRATED SWAMPS
Team Leader: llham Abla                                   TL Unit: EACIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: A ril 30, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: INTEGRATED SWAMPS                              L/C/TF Number: CPL-37550;
SCL-3755A;
SCPD-3755S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage; AP - Perennial Crops;
AQ - Annual Crops; TR - Rural Roads; WR - Rural
Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/11/88                                Effective: 10/13/94           10/13/94
Appraisal:  01/11/93                                  MTR: 06/30/97             06/30/97
Approval:  06/14/94                                Closing: 09/30/2000          09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/Bappenas/DGFCH/DGE/AARD/BPN/BAPPEDA/DGWRD
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                            Anthony P. Cole
Team Leader at ICR:   liham Abla                               J.F. Cunningham
ICR Primary Author:   Kariyan Mei (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objectives of the project were: (a) to reduce poverty in the selected (existing) swamp schemes
through further development of their agricultural potential; and (b) to assist GOI in its management of part
of the coastal zones and help ensure sound environmental practices in swamp development. The project's
development objectives and direction were defined following the Bank's long involvement in swamp
development in Indonesia. They are in line with the GOI and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy to
alleviate poverty, while promoting sustainability and improving environmental management. The second
objective was, however, stated broadly, thus creating difficulties to assess/link activities and objectives. A
more detailed definition of the development objectives in a well-structured log-frame would have improved
clarity.
3.2 Revised Objective:
(N/A)
3.3 Original Components:
The project objectives were to be achieved through the following components: (a) water control
infrastructure and institutional strengthening for O&M; (b) food crop production; (c) tree crop development
and land titling; (d) rural infrastructure and potable water supply; and (e) coastal zone land use
management. Design of the project components was reasonably clear and well-related to achievement of the
project  objectives.    Improved  hydraulic  infrastructure  would  minimize  flood,  improve
navigation/water-bome transports, and facilitate better environment for water management to support
agriculture development. New rural road, bridges and jetties would improve accessibility to support
mobilization of goods and people. Potable water supply minimize people risk from various disease,
especially during the long dry season. Coastal zone land use management component was intended to
strengthen the regional government capacity in the planning of coastal areas. In Jambi it included
strengthening of management of Berbak National Park.
3.4 Revised Components:
Due to the economic crisis starting in 1997/98, the GOI was not able to fulfill the required budget for
O&M of rehabilitated schemes. To avoid further serious degradation, loan disbursement was approved for
emergency maintenance. With the objective of increasing farmers' participation in O&M, participatory
approach was introduced in the implementation of the component. To improve coordination amongst six
implementing agencies, loan disbursement was also agreed for project management.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The project design was an adapted version of previous Bank projects, and a continuation of
the integrated interdisciplinary project approach, thus encouraging and mandating inter-agency cooperation.
Lessons learned from previous projects, which were taken into account in the ISDP include: (a)
decentralization of project management from central to the project provinces with responsibility for project
coordination with the provincial Bappedas, assisted by consultants stationed at that level; and (b) reduced
project scope, including spatial distribution (only three provinces) and number of schemes and area
covered. The project components, designed to realized the above objectives, reflected the government basic
principle given in the Government Regulation no.27/1991 on the development and conservation of
swampland. Include in the regulation were making beneficial use of swamplands to alleviate poverty while
protecting and conserving the resources, and maintaining the balance of the ecosystem. The project did not
develop new swamplands nor settle additional people. To ensure that the selected schemes were viable for
-2-



the proposed development, a set of selection criteria was provided as a guidance during implementation
period. Shortcomings in the design were the relatively short implementation period of five years, and
over-estimation of the preparedness of the recipient agencies, both factors being inherent to many
Bank-financed projects. As provision agriculture inputs was included in the project component, an
assessment on the capacity of the country's regulatory framework on institutions to promote and support
safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest management should has been included during project
preparation. The project quality at entry was not reviewed by QAG.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcomne/achievementof objective:
The overall project outcome is rated marginally satisfactory. The project has achieved the major appraisal
targets. It contributed to its major development objective of reducing poverty in the selected swamp
schemes due to: (a) increased agricultural production of both food crops and tree crops through improved
soil and water management; (b) improved access to markets and other public services; and (c) improved
access to potable water. The second development objective of strengthening GOI's capacity in its
management of the coastal zones and ensuring sound environmental practices has been partially achieved.
Key outcome and output indicators are summarized in Annex 1. Production increases of the main crops are
not as high as predicted during project preparation and reflect that the project, especially in the last two
years, has been implemented during a difficult period climatically, economically, and politically for
Indonesia. Efforts, accelerated toward the end of the project to form and strengthen the beneficiaries'
groups have been undertaken. More detail outputs by components contributing to the above outcomes are
described hereunder.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Water Control Infrastructure:
The main objective of the component to provide and extend operating water control functionality to the
planned project area has been largely achieved. The physical performance of the component is 104% of
SAR expectations. Water level, drainage, irrigation and flood control infrastructure works included
rehabilitation, upgrading, modification or construction of flood protection dykes, canals and control
structures for a potential command area of about 81,000 ha and exceeded the 78,000 ha targeted in the
SAR. Experience and features from previous projects were incorporated during design reviews and
modifications to ensure constructed works met specific needs.
In addition, the project provided adequate support for the strengthening of O&M services and institutional
development to assist optimization of system function for maximizing crop production. Project support
included partial financing of O&M through a US$2.0 million emergency loan fund for FY 1999/2000 and
FY 2000/2001, while about Rp.5.0 billion was provided by GOI during the project. Technical training on
the O&M of the system operations, water management and agriculture was provided to WUA members and
participating Sgencies' staff, including training of the trainer for Jurus (Gate Operators), PPLs (Agriculture
Extension Workers) and participating agencies' staff in the later project stages. In addition to the in-class
training, the project developed 12 model areas scattered in three project provinces, to test and demonstrate
appropriate water management and O&M practices. However, successful adoption of the improved
technology by the farmers will require an ongoing process extending beyond the closing of the project.
Capacity building of WUAs in particular will need continuous support to solidify gains already achieved.
- 3 -



The project successfully implemented the formation of about 220 WUAs ( or about 20,000 members)
including provision of basic facilities and equipment. This achievement represents a remarkable increase
from the reported 2 WUAs pre-project. The involvement of some 20,000 members of the community
indicates that approximately just as many families or about 100,000 beneficiaries have been directly
affected by the project. The impact on the improvement of capacity of the project beneficiaries can thus
be judged as significant in terms of commitment and instilled community ownership.
Implementation of O&M through a participatory approach and contracting of some operations with WUAs
has been cost effective and succeeded in improving the quality of construction, as the WUAs are also
interested in having well functioning schemes. Moreover, this arrangement has provided a good source of
income to the rural communities, especially during the off season, and has increased the sense of ownership
by beneficiaries for the drainage network.
It was voiced by communities that in Riau, Community Organizer (CO) and government staff, in
performiing their task of guiding the WUAs also received an extra fee from the WUAs, in addition to what
they received from the government. The amount of fee received varied around US$20. Regardless of the
value of the money, this practice should be avoided. In future, when the formal transferring of the scheme
to the WUA is in effect, in accordance with current reform on irrigation policy under WATSAL - another
Bank's financed project, the CO will work solely for the WUA, and will thus only be paid by the WUA for
services provided.
Food Crop Production:
The food crop development component consists of four activities: (a) agricultural research with the
establishment of fanrning system technology adaptation (FSTA) units, identification and characterization of
project area, conducting technology component research and new variety testing; (b) establishment of
tertiary level hydraulic management units (tertiary demonstration units or TDUs); (c) improved seed
production and distribution by organizing seed growers; and (d) provision of seasonal inputs to be managed
as a revolving fund by farmer groups. In addition, the project established and empowered women farmer
groups - through Women in Development (WID) program, especially in agro-processing techniques and in
homeyard agriculture activities to promote family income generation. The project also conducted staff and
farmers' training with the objective of improving staff capability in project management, and to improve
farmers' skill and knowledge of agriculture techniques in swamp areas, including on-farm water and soil
management (micro-water management).
The food crop development component has marginally achieved the main objectives of the project through
increased harvested areas and yields, and therefore increased income and welfare of the farmers. From the
current cultivated area of about 32,000 ha only about 80% was planted with rice during the wet-season
before the project, whereas in the wet season of the final year of the project about 93%, were planted. The
total annual cropped area of 30,100 ha (98% cropping intensity) before the project had increased to about
42,300 ha (133% cropping intensity) by the end of the project. The cropping intensity is expected to
increase further in the future if the water control structures and newly constructed roads for mobility are
maintained and managed properly.
The wet season rice yield has increased from about 2.0 tons/ha to about 2.8 tons/ha despite several recent
production constraints. The food crop development activities experienced a long dry season in 1997 (El
Nino). A sudden.increase in farm inputs prices in FY 97/98 (government removal of fertilizer subsidy, and
increase in cost of imported inputs as the rupiahs weakened) hampered the farmers from using the
recommended amount of fertilizer, and yields dropped initially. However, yields showed some signs of
-4 -



recovery after 1998. For the wet-season 1999/2000, out of the total 800 farmer groups surveyed, 16%
claimed that they had a significant production increase, about 72 % had the same or no-significant increase,
and about 12% claimed that they had decreased production. Paddy yields can be expected conservatively to
increase to 3.3 tons/ha or even higher at full development, depending on farmers' capacity to fully adopt
the recommended technology packages that are demonstrating gains in on-farm field trials (FSTA). These
FSTA are resulting in 4.0 t/ha - 6.3 tlha in Riau, 4.1 t/ha - 5.8 t/ha in Jambi, and 3.3 t/ha - 4.2 t/ha in West
Kalimantan). Moreover, rehabilitation of large areas has been only recently completed (one or two years
ago). This, together with better drainage condition and on-farm water management, should lead to further
production gains.
The main activity of the agricultural research component has been the introduction of farming system
technology adaptation (FSTA) in four provinces (imcluding South Sumatra). A total of 19 FSTA units were
established compared to 10 units targeted in the SAR. In the FSTA, testing and introduction of new
varieties (rice), demonstration of cropping pattem alternatives and diversification farmiing were also
introduced. The inclusion of non-rice (palawija) crops in the cropping pattem and integration of livestock
not only minimize risk, but also had increased the farmers' income. Six improved rice varieties, suited to
local condition have been released and gradually adopted by farmers, substituting for the IR type varieties
previously planted. A semi detailed map for each scheme delineating the land by typology and tidal type is
available which can be used as a guideline to specific technology development. It is supported also by
baseline information on socio-economic characteristics of the location. A total of 35 Tertiary Development
Units were established compared to the 30 units planned in the SAR, with the main focus on the
introduction of "on-farm or micro water management". At a later stage, implementation of these FSTA and
TDU were integrated in the model areas.
The capital revolving fund (CRF) was introduced to provide working capital to farmers for the purchase of
recommended agricultural inputs such as seed, fertilizer and pesticide/herbicide. About 800 farmer groups
received one-time grants from the project, which have been channeled to about 28,500 beneficiaries,
impacting about 31,700 ha. The repayment rate to the farmers' groups' revolving fund has declined over
time to about 50% by project closing. The reasons for the decline were, among other; a) weak
implementation management; b) a long dry season in 1997 and an irregular rainy season in 1998; and c) the
economic crisis and govenmment policy on abolition of subsidies for fertilizer. Most complaints made by
farmers on the implementation management concerned untimely delivery, inappropriate input packages, and
unclear procedures. The possibility of replacing the in-kind grants with cash was discussed at a later stage
as this would enable farmers to have more flexibility in selecting kinds of inputs. However, due to
administration and time constraints, the in-kind system was maintained. Instead, farmers' participation in
designing the input and procurement packages was increased. Accordingly, farmers should agree on all
inputs to be procured by the project and sign the Bill of Quantity (BOQ) of procurement documents. In
addition, the CRF guideline was replaced.
Tree Crop Development and Land Titling
The tree crop component is rated satisfactory. The project has developed 12,500 ha of coconut by 10,752
farmers, consisting of 6,747 ex-transmigrants and 4,005 local farmers. While the planting in Riau
province was accomplished in FY 97/98, in Jambi and West Kalimantan it was extended up to FY 99/00.
In Jambi, the planting is completed at the end of October 2000.
The quality of over one-year old planting is satisfactory (70% in class A and B in Riau and West
Kalimantan and 68% in Jambi). Failure plantings (class D) are 14% in Riau and West Kalimantan, and
19% in Jambi. The reasons for failure are fire, wild pig damage, and inadequate maintenance of the
-5 -



drainage system. Delayed development of the drainage system caused banded growth, as seen in some
plantations in West Kalimantan. Inadequate maintenance of drainage systems caused retarded growth and a
long immature period as seen in Jambi province. Copra yields are above appraisal estimates, and vary from
0.4-2 tons/ha in Year 1, and 2-4 tons/ha in Year 2.
The project has introduced a pilot program of coffee and cacao inter-cropped in a well-maintained 4-5 year
old coconut plantation. To diversify the farming system, inter-cropping should be promoted in all coconut
plantations. Production of coconut sugar and coconut oil represents another source of income, particularly
important for farm households when the price of coconut and copra is low. The project also provided
assistance for demonstration of cattle breeding and fattening activities, but it was only started at a later
stage and there has been no formal report provided.
Land titling. Eighty percent of land certificates have been completed. At the end of the project, out of the
total target of 12,500 ha, the National Land Agency (BPN) had issued and handed over certificates for
10,548 ha. The balance will be processed by BPN with GOI financing. Slow progress in issuing certificates
has had adverse affects on credit recovery. The delay was caused by: (a) errors in identifying farmers; (b)
loss of original certificates; (c) unregistered selling of ex-transmigrants' land; and (d) delays in coconut
planting. Conflict of land ownership was rarely reported in this project.
Rural Infrastructure
Rural Roads and Navigation Facilities. About 179 km of roads (including appurtenant structures) and 14
jetties were improved or newly constructed under the project, exceeding the SAR target by 20% and 40%
respectively. Because of varying soil conditions and availability of construction materials, several typical
designs have been introduced, including asphalt and sand/soil cement stabilization on mineral or shallow
peat soils; and improvement of soil bearing capacity using wood piles on some deep peat soils. Road width
varies from two to three meters, depending on expected traffic density. Their design axle load is 3 ton. To
prevent access to heavy traffic, portals have been installed on most roads.
Construction started more than one year behind schedule but quality appears to be generally acceptable,
although in West Kalimantan in particular, some deficiencies were found. These included: (a), irregular
settlement of the earth road body after application of the asphalt top layer due to construction time
constraints and mainly on peat soils; (b) use of oversized aggregates diminishing the strength of the top
layer; and (c) berm width less than designed. Construction costs have been very high at Rp.49.4 billion and
can be partly explained by difficult soil conditions and inflation. The cost for the roads component is about
triple the appraisal estimate expressed in Rupiah terms.
Potable Water Supply. The project provided over 42,000 household water systems (rainwater collection
tanks) and 43 commnunal systems (boreholes equipped with hand pumps). Because of high Fe and Mg
contents, 20 communal systems in Riau and West Kalimantan provide water which is unsuitable for daily
human consumption, and therefore is used for daily washing only or as a back-up during drought. Twenty
three communal systems in Jambi province deliver good quality water, and become a significant water
source in the dry season, as was proved during 1997 drought. Due to inadequate training, the users treat
water as free goods. This may jeopardize its sustainability in the future. The number of household water
systems exceeds the appraisal target by over 50 %, but the total quantity stored is slightly less than the
appraisal estimate, because less storage has been provided per household than originally anticipated. The
installed capacity was reduced from 2.5 m3 per household as recommended in the SAR to 1.5 m3 in West
Kalimantan, 2.0 m3 in Riau and 1.0 m3 in Jambi province. The low capacity in Jamnbi is deemed sufficient
as beneficiaries collect water from the communal systems during the dry season. The number of
-6 -



beneficiaries was increased as households neighboring the scheme areas were provided with water systems
as well to avoid social problem.
The water supply component started in early 1997, following several years of delay while the system types
and implementation methods were being discussed. In West Kalimantan province, initially fiberglass water
tanks were used to collect roof rainwater runoff. Due to leakage, the program shifted to cement jars.
However, already 7,000 fiberglass tanks had been procured by that time of which more than 30% are
reported to be dysfunctional. In Jambi and Riau province, High Density Polyurethane (HDPE) tanks were
successfully installed. Beneficiaries were required to provide the base and install the gutter and downspout,
thus contributing about the 10% of the investment as required under the Loan. The cost of the water supply
component is about double the appraisal estimate in Rupiah terms and the increase is mainly due to
inflation. The water supply component has been successful as an emergency program and quickly solved a
serious problem.
Coastal Zone Land Use Management
Environmental Profile (West Kalimantan):
Development of Inter-Sectoral Policy: The requirement for preparation of the Environment Profile has
been fulfilled according to SAR targets. Study results have been incorporated into the overall provincial
5-year spatial plan for development under the environment and land use sectors. Regional spatial plans are
being reviewed this year to incorporate specific actions on the recommendations of the profile.
Environmental Awareness, Conservation Planning and Management Capacity: Bappeda indicated that
coastal zone programs for mangrove conservation and establishment of protected habitats (Kendawangan
and Palung park lands) would be included in the spatial planning review expected during 2001. Direct
ISDP benefits of the environmental awareness and management capacity building are evidenced in the case
of the Ambawangan Mountain construction materials borrow area. ISDP inputs and knowledge-building
were used in environmental impact decision-making. To address concerns from the local public and NGOs,
local government adopted information from the environmental profile, acting with decisiveness,
transparency and exemplary leadership, to prohibit borrowing of materials from the environmentally
endangered location.
Berbak National Park, TNB - Integrated Buffer-Zone Management (Jambi):
Strengthening Park Management: Completed activities towards developing management capacity include
the TNB Management Plan, provision of office, transport and tourist facilities. Staff development and
training progressed slowly, but core staff are now in place to support future activities. Partial completion is
observed for boundary survey and demarcation (55%), official buffer-zone definition and local forestry
concession negotiations. Being more economically attractive than agriculture activities introduced by the
project, local community illegal logging is continuing, with outside support. To be effective in combatting
this, management and support systems delivered by the project in the National Park will require more
adequate operating budgets in the future to attain full utilization and provide significant impact.
Socio-Economic Development: Partially satisfactory results were achieved. Community involvement was
limited to information kiosks, public awareness campaigns, and home garden activities. Since
socio-economic development activities in the buffer zone commenced only recently, results are just
emerging. Several horticultural plots were implemented to establish economically viable agricultural
activity alternatives. Land titling and certification was completed on 3,950 ha with the remaining 2,050 ha
-7 -



scheduled for completion in the following fiscal years. Planting of valuable forest species near the boundary
for local communities' consumption has not started, and small-scale cottage-industry trials as yet showed
limited success due to market outreach constraints.
Institutional Operations Capacity: Bappeda is committed to including the coastal zone and Berbak in its
spatial plans. In response, the administration is developing a comprehensive spatial plan to include
protection of the east coast mangrove forest, and to further develop Berbak management capacity. The
Buffer Zone Management Plan and Wetland Strategic Plan for Jambi were both completed. Bappeda needs
to initiate immediate dissemination of the reporting to all related sectors for planning and implementation
purposes.
Environmental Aspects:
Environmental aspects of the EIA had been taken into consideration in this project. Some changes have
taken place during project implementation in response to concerns voiced by NGOs or communities.
Construction materials, quarry location, transportation modes and road designs are examples of the
concems raised and acted upon. The responsive government actions resulted in; (a) the location being
changed; (b) road transportation of heavy loads being limited and combined with water transport; and (c)
public access to Ambawang Mountain protected forest was limited by changes to road designs.
EIA identified potential environmental concerns related to: (a) acid leaching into water sources under
improved drainage conditions; and (b) negative impacts of pesticide application. In the first case, the
problem was reduced significantly by leaving out the areas with excessive Potential Acid Sulfite Soil
(PASS) from the project. However, some exposure of PASS in rehabilitation of bigger canals was
unavoidable. The impact was minimal, due to the operation of new water control structures which, in
combination with tidal movement and high rainfall, facilitated better circulation of water in the system.
This resulted in the flushing out of low water quality water into the ocean. In (b), the observed effects
were low due to reduced levels of pesticide application because of its high price and the adoption of
integrated pest management practices.  In addition to the above, in the detailed design process,
environmental sound criteria were applied. For example, deep peat (at more than one meter depth) and
areas with pyrites within one half meter of the surface were excluded from the area to be rehabilitated.
In 1998, a survey by an NGO indicated some cases of utilization of class I and II pesticides by farmers,
and in which a higher percentage was found amongst coconut farmers. Farmers get pesticide through a
coconut credit component, or a one-time grant (CRF) from a the project, or purchased them directly in the
following seasons. The project procurement of pesticide initially only referred to a guideline issued by the
National Pesticide Commission under the Ministry of Agriculture. This was in disregard of the Bank OP
4.09 of 1998, and earlier version of 1996. In response to the NGO's report several corrective actions
followed: a) all procurement of agriculture input - regardless of contract size - should be sent to the Bank
for review and comments; b) farmers received intensified IPM training, in collaboration with the national
IPM team; and c) field staff provided stricter supervision and guidance on pesticide use.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
It took almost two years for a project-specific M&E system to be developed. It consists of four sub-system
to be used by DGWRD (with six indicators), DGFCH (with nine indicators), AARD (with four indicators),
and DGE (three indicators). Based on several years monitoring activities, the overall project performance
was rated as "Fair", with a total score of 73.43%. The project would be rated as "Good" if the total score
were above 80%, or "unsatisfactory" if the total score were 60% or below. The M&E reports used by the
agencies in their planning of O&M and extension works. The DGWRD would give more attention to the
-8-



WUAs where the scheme performance is unsatisfactory, while the DGFCH and DGE would consentrate on
the areas where farmer groups are weak. Operational cost for implementation of the M&E was financed
under the loan. Continuation of this activities post-loan period will depend greatly on the willingness of the
implementing agencies to consistently allocate required budget in each fiscal year.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ERR was re-estimated at 11.7% (Case 1), as compared with 15% estimated in the SAR. Appendix H
reports sensitivity analysis in addition to this base case. If the assumed 10% yield increase of traditional
coconut is included as benefits, the ERR rises to 12.0% (case 2). This result indicates that the impact of
yield increase of traditional coconut on the ERR is rather limited because the profitability of traditional
coconut planting is marginal.
Given the fact that rural roads can be used for other purposes in addition to the marketing of agricultural
produce, the inclusion of total costs of rural roads in the calculation of the ERR is debatable. If only half of
the costs of the rural roads is included in the costs stream, the ERRs rise to 12.5% and 12.7% respectively
for Case I and Case 2. Further sensitivity analysis was done for Case 1, with assumption that the yields
would drop by 5% and 10%. The results show that the ERR dropped to 10.9% and 10.0% respectively. In
conclusion, the ERRs of the project range from about 10% to 13% depending on assumptions used. These
results indicate that the project is marginally economically justified, with this assessment, strengthened by
the outcome of benefits accruing primarily for the poor.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial analysis has been carried out using the crop models, cropping pattems, and cropping
intensities discussed in detail in the Financial and Economic Analysis Appendix. In line with the SAR, the
financial impact on: (a) farm households with one hectare food crops; and (b) farm households with one
hectare hybrid coconut, has been reassessed. The analysis indicates that, on average, the farm income from
one hectare food crops would increase by about 70% over the "without project" situation. In Rupiah terms,
the incremental net farm income was Rp.970,000 compared with the SAR estimate of Rp.760,000 (both in
2000 prices). However, incremental net farm income was estimated at US$120 compared with the SAR
estimate of US$295, bot,h in 2000 constant prices, due to appreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis the
Rupiah. As for the impact of the one hectare coconut plantation, farn income would increase by about
US$102/ha/year at full development (year 12). This farm income from coconut plantation would improve
further if inter-cropping coconut/cocoa or coconut/coffee is adopted.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact is rated modest. The funding provided by the project and the experience of project
implementation have strengthened the competence of the line agencies (DGWRD, DGFCH, DGE, AARD,
BPN). Adopting a decentralized approach in project design/planning by actively involving local
government, particularly the provincial planning board (BAPPEDA), has resulted not only in a better
chance of success but has also strengthened the institutional capacity of local government.  The
demonstration plots (FSTA, TDU, model areas) offer good opportunities for improving pragmatic
coordination among agencies as well as enhancing the chances of sustainability. Formation of water user
associations (WUAs), although started late, together with the strengthening of farmer groups as well as
women groups, have had positive impacts on rural institutions. Direct contracting to the WUAs to
maintain irrigation schemes through the emergency O&M fund is an innovative first step towards involving
WUAs in playing an active role in O&M. This is in line with the newly introduced WATSAL principle.
-9-



Direct contracting to the WUAs is not only useful in creating dynamism in WUAs but also increases
income-generating opportunities in rural communities, which is one of the project objectives.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The following factors had a negative impact on the project: (a) the recent economic, social and political
crisis which started in 1997 and continued until 2000. Although the Bank helped to cushion this adverse
impact by increasing disbursement percentages, counterpart funding continued to be tight and hence
resulted in implementation delays. The crisis also resulted in inflationary pressures causing project costs to
increase sharply and which pushed the price of farm inputs up; and (b) abnormal climatic conditions from
El Nifo in 1997/98 and La Nina in 1999 resulting in production losses.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Such factors included: (a) DGWRD as "lead agency" had insufficient authority to ensure proper
integration of activities among the line agencies involved; (b) late release of funds due to the mismatch in
timing of the Government's fiscal year and the annual dry season implementation period for civil works; (c)
due to delays in implementation, in particular of DGWRD, the schedule proposed in the SAR was not fully
operative; (d) the removal of subsidies made fertilizer more expensive resulting in lower than expected
yields; and (e) lack of effective government program to prevent large scale forest land clearing by fire
outside areas, allowed haze and smoke over the project areas, limiting access and causing delays in
implementation.
5.3 Factors generally sub,ect to implementing agency control:
Such factors included: (a) coordination among agencies should have been strengthened for better
sequencing of activities; (b) delayed fornation/involvement of farmer groups and inadequate dialogue with
project beneficiaries caused deficiencies in the design; and (c) monitoring, data exchange, and reporting
across sectors were wea.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at US$106 rmillion, of which US$65 million is to be financed
through the World Bank loan, and the remainder through GOI's contribution. The actual total project cost
is US$69.3 million (using year-by-year average exchange rates). The two cancellations (US$8 million and
US$6 million) reduced the loan amount to US$51 million. While the project cost decreased in US$ termns
due to appreciation of the US$ vis-a-vis the Indonesian Rupiah, the project cost in Rupiah terms increased
by about 32%, from Rp.223 billion (included contingencies) to Rp.295 billion. This is attributed primarily
to high domestic inflation, higher than expected unit cost, and larger physical achievement than planned.
The World Bank financed about 73% of total project costs.
- 10-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall project sustainability is rated uncertain. Specialized technical skills that have been developed
during implementation will remain as a continuing asset. Participation of beneficiaries, in the O&M of the
assets created, certainly has a positive impact on sustainability. Sustainability of project activities is,
however, dependent on the policy environment, human resources and government commitment to continued
funding. As for the tree crop component, it is fairly safe to assume a better chance of sustainability,
although the low price of coconut is still a concern. The sustainability of food crop production and roads
will be largely dependent on the GOI commitment and capability to finance adequate O&M and to maintain
cross-agency coordination for WUA support, and beneficiaries commitment. Particular attention is also
required for proper operation of the scheme in view of the delicate balance between water management and
soil conditions in the peat areas. With regard to water control infrastructure, sustainability is largely
depends on the successful implementation of current GOrs policy to transfer all irrigation schemes,
including swampland to the WUAs. Laws, regulations and guidance to implement this policy is being
prepared under WATSAL - an adjustment loan financed by the Bank, and extensive piloting of the
WUA-level implications already underway as part of the Java Irrigation Improvement and Water
Resources Management Projet (IBRD Loan No. 3762-IND)
Physical and institutional sustainability in future operations is considered generally adequate, however,
risks remain. Risks are primarily related to the community development strategies of local government and
availability of public resources. With adequate public funds, in combination with community participation
already demonstrated in ISDP, the risks would be minimized. Provision of community organizers and the
emergency maintenance contracting programn have promoted a sense of ownership and empowerment within
the beneficiary population. The last assessment, based on fourteen characteristics, on WUA empowerment
indicated that 22% of WUAs are strong, 70% are medium and only 8% are weak. This result has been
achieved over a relatively short period of time (about 4 years) and indicates the community commitment to
maintaining future scheme operations. Infrastructure designs are considered sustainable on a macro scale
and micro refitting or modification are anticipated as the condition of the soil matures and land usage
changes. This factor is consistent with experience in swamplands development for agriculture and related
usage.
Sustainability of the rural roads component is uncertain. Because of the relatively high maintenance costs
for roads on peat and weak sub-soils, the question of sufficient budget is key to the issue of sustainability
of the access roads. Maintenance of the village roads by farmers is not yet ensured as the sense of
ownership is still weak. A major concem is the unauthorized use of the roads by heavy vehicles and
measures should be taken quickly to avoid this. There is clear evidence that the three meter width roads
suffer more damage than the two meter ones because of easy access by heavy trucks. In particular in West
Kalimantan, some of the earlier constructed roads have been severely damaged and are in urgent need of
repair. The same holds true for some of the structures and jetties.
Sustainability of the water supply component is uncertain. First, because of insufficient awareness by
beneficiaries in sanitation and care, several tanks inspected have collected a lot of dirt and gains from clean
water may be lost. Second, the HDPE tanks have been relatively expensive and are unlikely to be replaced
by the beneficiaries when damaged. In Riau and Jambi provinces, consideration should have been given to
lower-cost altematives manufactured locally, such as the cement water jars in West Kalimantan. In the
- 11 -



absence of sand, the use of brick storage tanks (already tried out in Jambi province) would have been a
cheaper and more sustainable long-term solution. However, the project output would likely have been less
as it would have required more community involvement and training. There is also some doubt about the
sustainability of the tubewells as ownership and responsibility are not yet clear.
Institutional development is one of important factors for sustainability. Bappeda gained long experience in
coordinating multi-agency activities in this intagrated type project. The coordination model under this
project is also used by the Bappeda in coordinating other projects, indicating that the system is well
adopted and Bappeda is strong enough for the future planning and coordination. Twelve model areas
developed under the project at a later stage provided a good opportunity for all implementing agencies to
leam how to work in a well coordinated manner.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project is expected to make transition arrangements to regular operation, in particular: (a) provision of
inputs for the maintenance of the newly established tree crops plantation of about 3,400 ha for two years;
(b) continued support to the newly created water user associations so that they can take a more active role
in bidding for O&M contracts, and maintain the tertiary canals; (c) continued support to the model areas,
FSTA and TDU, as they offer a good opportunity to strengthen the sustainability of the project; and (d)
strengthening the farmer groups involved in the capital revolving fund. The Post Completion Operation
Plan parepared by the agency mentions the above items, but it lacks of comnmittment on budget preparation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory: Project identification and preparation were marginally satisfactory. Experience and lessons
learnt from previous projects have been incorporated in the project design, particularly the adoption of the
integrated approach, and the reasonable scale of the project. Objectives were consistent with the GOI's
priorities and the Bank strategies. Participation of local government by adopting a decentralized approach
to the project design/planning has been beneficial. However, with the benefit of hindsight, adequate time
should have been given from the beginning to harmonize coordination among implementing agencies. As
provision of agriculture inputs was included in the project activities, a set of guidelines for selection and
use of pesticide should have been provided in the project documents.
7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactory: Supervision of this integrated project which involved six implementing agencies and
inter-dependencies of various components require a tighter oversight mechanism. During the first half of
project period, supervision mission only gave high attention to the technical aspects. Several problems
which existed prior to 1998 were not adequately brought to the surface or discussed during Midterm
Review. Only in 1998, after a participative monitoring by an NGO did those deficiencies come to light.
Coordination among agencies involved was not as good as appeared on the surface, technical engineering
problems in the design of construction stage indicated weak supervision, and the absence of guidance on
selection and use of pesticides was an oversight. Although corrective action was quickly taken by the
missions after 1998, the two years remaining period of the project seemed to be inadequate to completely
rectify all the problems.
- 12 -



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Unsatisfactory: The overall performance of the Bank has been unsatisfactory.Two important aspects were
missing during project preparation: i) a well described coordination mechanism and detailed sequencing of
various activities, and ii) a detailed control mechanism on procurement and provision of pesticide to the
farmer groups. As it happened, the original work plan was disrupted by delay in civil works, and the
sequencing was not restored.The agencies only referred to the national guidelines in their purchase of
pesticide, which resulted in the provision of several hazardous pesticides to the farmers until halfway
through project implementation.In the midterm review, the mission should have addressed these aspects and
proposed corrective action.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory: During preparation and appraisal, the borrower provided data and collaborated in the
preparation and appraisal of the project. The project concept was discussed widely, not only at the central
level in Jakarta, but also at local govermment level. Understanding of the project concept and contribution
to the project design would have been improved if major documents had been translated into Bahasa
Indonesia for wider use.
7.S Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory: Major shortcomings observed during the course of implementation were in: quality
assurance, shortfalls in the counterpart fund after the economic crisis took place, inadequate guidance for
CRF and M&E implementation, lack of funding for O&M, and late commitment to involving beneficiaries'
participation to sustain the project. It is noteworthy that this project was implemented during a most
difficult time for Indonesia in all aspects - economic, climatic and political. Government's support on the
transparency of the project management during the last two years of project period, especially in working
together with NGOs is highly appreciated.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory: Coordination between implementing agencies was a challenging task at the beginning due to
the complex nature of the integrated project and to the difficult access to the project sites. It slowly
improved over time of implementation. The implementing agencies deserve credit for its efforts on
implementing transparency. All field implementing units provided good cooperation with extemal
reviewers/NGO and farmers. The review results were translated into action plans and consistently
implemented. With regard to pesticide policy, the agency merely relied on the Guideline issued National
Pesticide Commission. Due to weak guidance from the government, some deviation from procurement
procedures were found, several small contracts with an aggregate value of US$390,000 under
SOE-procedure were declared as misprocurement. One contract for procurement of fertilizer was canceled
due to collusive practice, and was followed up with concrete correction actions and high level attention
from Minister of Agriculture. In spite of these shortcomings, most of the project targets have been achieved
within the planned timeframe.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory: The overall performance of the borrower is satisfactory. The role of coordination in
Bappenas for administrative and financial matters, and especially in Bappedas office for integrating various
-13 -



activities were performed satisfactorily. The shortcomings in the project design has been minimized through
closed cooperation among implementing agencies. For day to day activities, the loan coordinator have been
given adequate authority to coordinate and guide each agency in implementing each component. The
borrower has shown flexibility and committment to improve the situation, and to make the project a
successful one. Needless to say that substantial efforts are required to assure sustainability.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
Swamp development requires an integrated approach including water management, food and tree crops
production, and provision of essential services such as roads and water supply. Such an integrated
approach requires good institutional capacity and adequate time to ensure effective coordination among
implementation agencies. To facilitate common understanding, the main project documents such as the
Staff Appraisal Report, Mid-Term-Review and Aide-Memoires of supervision missions, should be
translated into Bahasa Indonesia and distributed to key stakeholders.
Decentralized project design and planning involving active participation of local government and other
stakeholders is essential for defining and prioritizing real needs, thus improving the chances of project
success. Strengthening the planning capacity at provincial and lower levels is important. However, this is a
long term process and requires further support.
Greater emphasis on community development and a participatory approach in project planning,
implementation and management is recommended in future lowlands projects. The approaches recently
adopted in implementation of participatory O&M under this project, and other models currently being
tested in the Bank-funded JIWMP and the ADB-funded FMIS Project provide the basis for developing
stronger participating models. Cultural and social needs of concemed communities should be addressed to
ensure community commitment, involvement and contribution, especially when the introduction of user fees
is part of the project design.
Inclusion of environment-related activities lead to environmentally sound implementation results.
Inadequate consideration of environmental factors during planning and engineering design may lead to a
serious negative impact on the environment and human life. In coastal areas like those of the ISDP
schemes, where there is low accesibility and the possibility exists of smuggling or black-market trading, a
special control on pesticide use is especially important.
Swamp development is a long-term process and requires more than the typical 5-6 year project
time-frame. Such projects should be implemented in phases over a much longer period to accommodate
community development as well as proper sequencing of development activities. Preparatory work should
include careful site-specific studies to ensure effective delivery and optimal results. Sufficient preparatory
time (about 2 years) is required to ensure the full involvement of local communities in project design,
ensure that stakeholders understand their roles and responsibilities and that effective coordination
mechanisms are set up prior to project effectiveness.
More transparent implementation process. It has been shown that independent assessment of project
impact through a proper external review contributes to healthy development. It is suggested that this
mechanism be given careful consideration in future project design.
- 14 -



The objectives of support to the credit system. Provision of in-kinds farm inputs to the farmer groups
faced a number of constraints. It is exposed to inefficient use of funds through poor procurement system,
causes distortion to the local market and contra-innovative. Provision of cash to the farner group in future
projects should be considered. The farmers will have high flexibility in planning their farming, and in their
responding to the market situation. The agency should keep its role in provision of their guidance to the
fanner's organization.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1    General.
The Integrated Swamp Development Project (ISDP) is a six-year (1995-2000) World Bank assisted
development project involving seven agencies, whose lead agency is DGWRD. The goal of ISDP is to
increase the incomes and welfare of poor farmers in selected swamp schemes.
ISDP follows GOI policy objectives for swamp development as stated in Government Regulation No. 27 of
May 1991, which include: i) Protecting and conserving swamps; ii) Making beneficial use of swamps to
alleviate poverty by providing cultivable land to poor landless people; iii) Reducing environmental
problems resulting from overcrowding in the most densely populated "inner islands"; iv) Supporting
balanced regional development; and, v) Maintaining the balance of the eco-system.
1.2    Project Objectives.
The objectives of the ISDP Project are: i) to increase the incomes and to improve the welfare of poor
farmers in the selected swamp schemes through improvement of drainage and rural infrastructure, and
provision of agricultural support services to promote new cropping patterns, higher cropping intensities of
the existing crops, and the development of tree crops, ii) to assist the Government of Indonesia in
formulating appropriate approaches to the management of Indonesia's extensive coastal zone and ensuring
sound environmental practices in swamp development.
ISDP was planned to cover gross areas of 78,070 ha of partially developed, existing 20 swamp reclamation
and resettlement schemes in the Provinces of Jambi, Riau, and West Kalimantan. In relation with the
second objective, the project has two coastal management efforts, i.e. the development of the Berbak
National Park in Jambi Province, and the coastal zone land use in West Kalimantan. Details of the Project
schemes, as given in the SAR, have been realised as presented in Table 1.1.
2.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND COORDINATION
DGWRD was the lead agency for the Project. To coordinate the Project activities, Coordination
Secretariats were established at Central and Provincial levels. Permanent members of the Central
Coordination Secretariat, which is chaired by Bappenas, were representatives of DGWRD, DGFCH,
AARD, DGE, BPN, PHPA and IM consultants. The respective Bappeda chaired the Provincial
Coordination Secretariats, and members which included representatives of all agencies participating in the
Project.
- 15 -



3.      PROJECT DELIVERY
The main components of the Project, together with the principal executing agencies, were: 1) Water Control
& Rural Infrastructure (DGWRD); 2) Food Crop Production (DGFCH & AARD); 3) Tree Crop
Development (DGE & BPN); 4) Coastal Zone Land Use (Bappeda & PHPA).
The financial and physical performance of ISDP by agency is explained in Tables 3.1. and 3.2
Table 1.1
Project Area and Land-Use Per Province and Per Scheme (Wet Season)
Areas       Households                        Land Use
Scheme          SAR    tehab. ISD   (family)   Rlee *    PalwJa   ree Cp    !!lage area Remainlng
(Ha)     (Ha)                  (Ha)       (Ha)       (Ha)       (Ha)       (Ha)
JAMBI
1.   Rantau Rasau     6,800    10,887       4,548      5,087      1,235      2,806       1,311       449
2.   Simpang Puding    2,300     2,902        882      2,296        -          282         182        142
3.   Pamusiran         4,100     4,100      2,684      2,150         10        850         153       937
4.   Lambur            6,440     5,882       1,923     5,330        .           47        395         109
5.   Dendang I & 11    6,500     8,151      2,684       1,191       554       1,625       686       4,095
Sub-Total       26,140    31,922      12,721     16,054      1,799      5,611       2,727      5,731
RIAU
1.  Siak Kiri A, B, C,   8,000   8,000      1,999      3,767        110        992        529      2,602
2.   Kuala Cinaku 11    2,715    2,715        781        969        107        822         187       629
3.  Teluk Kiambang   I1,390      1,390        822        335         38        738         78        201
4.  Delta Reteh        7,000     7,000      2,682       1,792       199       3,892       265        853
Sub-Total        19,105    19,105      6,284      6,863        453      6,444       1,059      4,285
KALBAR
1.   Kapuas Kecil 11 &   6,700   6,700      3,240      3,538         80      2,010        639        433
2.   Pinang Luar       7,520     7,520        605      2,155        152        985        939       3,289
3.   Rasau Jaya        2,200     2,200      3,270        601         36        123        340       1,100
4.   Sei Kakap         3,300     3,300       1,979      1,925        25        538        331        481
5.   Sei Bulan         1,390     1,390        494        447         69         100       257        517
6.   Olak Olak Kubu    2,350     2;350        893        969         10        504        237        630
7.   Air Putih         2,420     2,420        662        580        160        409        141       1,130
8.  Jangkangl          1,960     2,000        437        454         76         79        141       1,251
9.   Arus Deras         635        635        191        300          7         111        100        117
10.  Sei Nipah         2,600     2,600        973        701        -          958        355        586
11.  Desa Kubu         1,750      ,750        286        663         42        345         85        615
Sub-Total       32,825    32,865      13,030     12,333        657      6,162       3,565     10,149
TOTAL            78,070    83,892     32,035     35,250      2,909      18,216      7,351     20,166
*   About 10% of the areas are not regularly planted.
* *  Mostly traditional coconut
***  Includes: Hydraulic and Road Infrastructure, Mixed Crops, Unsuitable or Abandoned Areas, Greenbelts.
-16 -



4.      FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.1     Internal Factors
Swamp development faces major challenges and problems. Challenges include developing sustainable
agricultural production while preserving the fragile ecological swamp environment. The soils are high in
organic matter, low in nutrients and acidic, particularly under stagnant water conditions. Problems further
include poor subsistence agricultural practices combined with a lack of institutional support and facilities.
Improved water control is required to keep water tables at a controlled depth and to flush out excessive
acidity.
Coordination of development activities is a major determinant of success for ISDP. The roles and
responsibilities of the executing agencies and the sequencing of their respective activities are the most
important factors influencing the performance of ISDP. The choice of a lead agency is important to the
fulfillment of the Project objective. The lead agency must be at the center of development activities, and be
involved and responsible for the ultimate results of the project. Otherwise, the lead agency will lack the
necessary overall involvement and subsequent commitment essential to the success of the project.
Table 3.1
Financial Progress
L_______  L_____ IFY 94/95   FY 95/96   FY 96/97   FY 97/98   FY 98/99   FY 99/00    FY 2000     Totals
DGWRD  Total   SAR            6,883.4    24144.1   36993.8   25220.7    8943.5      6355.7                108,541.2
Realizatio   2,515.5    15831.1   27630.5   16756.4   62695.5    60244.4    14708.7   200,382.1
DGFCH   Total   SAR           2,792.2    5,179.6   4,056.4    3,649.2    4,026.9    3,413.9                23,118.2
Realizatio   1,389.9    3,958.4   5,286.3    3,581.6    4,726.2   11,909.4   3,445.4     34,297.2
AARD    Total   SAR           1,658.1    1,640.1    1,078.0    832.2      873.5      699.1                  6,781.0
Realizatio   1,157.1    2,086.3    1,901.3    1,919.4    2,594.1    5,888.0  356.3      15,902.5
DGE      Total   SAR          5,570.0    7,304.7   8,176.9    6,365.6    4,351.2    3,265.9                35,034.3
Realizatio   2,817.6    4,047.7   7,582.9    5,851.5   10,060.6    3,330.9  6,030.7     39,721.9
BPN      Total   SAR           375.8      616.4     601.5      298.6                                        1,892.3
Realizatio  151.8      262.2     203.5       60.0      569.6       40.8                  1,287.9
Bappeda  Jambi  SAR                     1 ,679.2   1,813.8    1,223.4    986.7                             5,703.1
Realization                                1,218.2     724.4    1,754.4                   3,697.0
TOTAL        SAR         17,279.5   40,564.1   52,720.4   37,589.7   19,181.8   13,734.6             181,070.1
l zRealizatio:  8,031.90  26,185.70  42,604.50  29,387.10  81,370.40  83,167.90   24,541.10     295,288.6
-17 -



Table 3.2
Physical Performance
ALL PROVINCE
Drainage                  Farm      Tertiary       Road         Jetty    Househol  Village
Infra-   Coconut FSTA   Input  Demonstrabion Construction Rehabilitabon/ d Water   Water
structure  Ranfing        Grant       Units          /      Constructions  Systems  Systems
Improvement
(ha)     (ha)   (unit)  (unit)     (unit)        (km)         (unit)     (HH)       (unit)
Appraisal Target         78.070  12.500    11  34.000              37         150            10   27.525         55
FY 94/95
SAR Target                    0   2.500      9   1.500              0           0             0         0         0
Revised Target            2.300   1.430      5   1.500              0           0             0         0          0
Actual                    3.500    1.430     5     380              0           0             0         0          0
FY 95/96
SAR Target                1.800   4.100      7   3.000              5          29             1    4.100          5
Revised Target            3.994    1.965     6   4.404              7          29             1    1.980           5
Actual                   19.865    1.965     6   4.404              7           0             0         0          0
FY 96/97
Target SAR               19.740   4.000      5   4.500              7          75             7     5.480          5
Revised Target           29.480   3.800      3   5.513             11         100             8     5.521         12
Actual                   22.172   3.800      3   5.513             10          38             5    5.521          10
FY 97/98
SAR Target               33.780   1.900      2   6.000              7          46             2    6.865          15
Revised Target           38.754   1.930      2   6.735              7          46             3    11.618          8
Actual                   22.595    1,930     2   6.225              7           0             2    11.568         12
FY 98/99
SAR Target               22.750       0      2   7.500              7           0             0     6.895         15
Revised Target           23.960   3.375      2   8.703             11          78             3   20.841           8
Actual                   10.250   3.375      2   7.121              6          78             5   21.154           8
FY 99/00
SAR Target                    0       0      3   7.500              4          55             0     4.185         15
Revised Target            2.777       0      1   9.323              7         49.5            2    3.846          18
Actual                    2.777       0      1   8.107              5        49.5             2     3.846         13
FY 00
SAR Target                    0       0      0       0              0           0             0         0          0
Revised Target                0       0      0       0              0         10.8            0         0          0
Actual                        0       0      0       0              0         10.8            0         0          0
Total Years Actual       81.159  12.500    19  31.750              35       176.40           14   42.089         43
- 18-



The main characteristic of an integrated development project is that the planning and implementation of the
development activities has to be as such that the sequence of events in the field results in maximum benefits
for the beneficiaries. The design of the Project did include a schedule of activities, a phasing of the
components and a disbursement timetable. However, because of considerable delays in implementation at
the beginning of the Project, in particular regarding DGWRD works, the SAR schedule soon became
inoperative.
4.2    External Factors
a.    Monetary Crisis. Indonesia's recent economic and political crisis started in year 1997 and the
effects thereof are still felt. It effected project funding by GOI (DIP) and hence the implementation
schedule. The crisis also resulted in inflationary pressures that pushed the price of fertilizer up. The
subsequent removal of fertilizer subsidies also made fertilizers more expensive and resulted in a decrease in
their use in the schemes leading to yields below expectation.
Abnormal Climatic Conditions. ISDP schemes experienced abnormal climatic conditions from El Nino in
1997/98 and from La Nina in 1999. El Nino resulted in drought resulting in some 342 hectares of hybrid
coconut plantation burned and low overall crop yields; and, La Nina resulted in floods and loss of
harvested area. ISDP experienced difficulties in 1998 due to the fact that travel to some of the Project areas
became difficult and sometimes impossible because of haze and smoke over the region. Project staff even
had to be evacuated in some instances.
The economic feasibility of swamp schemes assumes promoting a second (dry-season) crop. However, it
has been noted that this is as yet unrealistic in several cases, because of the availability and attractiveness
of off-farm employment during the dry season. The role of marketing has been given less attention in ISDP
documentation. Rural roads, bridges and jetties development were one of the steps aimed at improving the
marketing of farm produce. Such an isolated step, although extremely beneficial, is still considered
insufficient by itself in the context of the marketing of farm products.
5.    ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE PROJECT
According to the input/output results monitoring (IOM) of the ISDP project, the achievements of ISDP fall
into four distinct categories: inputs, outputs, results and impacts. The project-wide aggregate efficiency for
ISDP, over the Loan period, when converting inputs into outputs, was 110.84%. It is reassuring to know
that, in aggregate, ISDP did convert inputs to outputs in an efficient manner. The aggregate number of
110.84%, however represents the summation of some 100 outputs over 20 schemes, in three provinces,
over six and a half years, being provided by five agencies. Further desegregation and analysis is needed to
verify that inputs were properly converted to outputs at all levels of the Project. This was done in the
course of ISDP implementation and although some problem areas were found, all had a reasonable
explanation, usually delays in execution, and were all resolved by Project completion.
A number of SAR targets remain outstanding and proper follow up action is described in the Post Project
Implementation Plan for ISDP. The input/output measures provided management with a good appreciation
of the project in terms of disbursement of funds, level of activity and efficiency, but these measures say
nothing about the results, the operational outcomes, of the Project.
19-



Key performance indicators, were selected for actual monitoring of the Project outcomes by the
management of ISDP. In Table 5.1, information relating to some of the selected key indicators is provided
for all the agencies and the three provinces. The overall conclusion is that ISDP appears to have been fairly
successful in delivering positive results, and there is every reason to believe that the anticipated Project
impacts will follow in a few years.
Table 5.1
Summary of Project Outcome Performance Indicators
DGWRD  (six)  DGFCH (nine  AARD   (four  DGE   (three  Average
No.    Province           indicators)   indicators      indicators)   indicators)
(%)    Rate   (%)    Rate   (%)    Rate   (%)    Rate   (%)    Rate
Jambi             77.76   B      81.60   A      67.00   B      85.30   A      77.92   B
2      Riau              70.58   B       68.10   B      67.30   B      72.30   B      69.57   B
3      West Kalimantan    85.82   A      71.50   B      67.60   B      66.30   B      72.81   B
All provinces     78.05   B      73.73   B      67.30   B      74.63   B      73.43   B
Note:
A= 81% - 100%    = good
B=61%-80%         = fair
C0=%  -60%        = unsatisfatorv
Future verification of Project impacts might be difficult, as the only baseline data available currently is
from the feasibility studies. Considerable work would be needed to reconstruct baseline data from the
earlier data used in the feasibility study phase of the Project.
6.     ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
The design of ISDP was intended to focus on inter-agency co-ordination, improve agricultural support, and
to ensure efficient O&M for the schemes water control structures. Assessing the achievements of ISDP
must not only include the realization of the quantitative and qualitative results anticipated, but it must also
include the fulfillment of an integrated approach and the realization of corresponding additional benefits.
Project achievement should also be measured in the ability to adjust the program to changing needs and site
specific requirements.
During the mid-term review in 1997 it was decided to introduce integrated O&M Model Areas, based on
the successful experience in other swamp development projects. The Model Areas combine the activities of
the O&M and agricultural agencies concerning monitoring, trials, demonstrations and training in close
cooperation with the farmer's community and water management organizations. In the Model Areas
activities focus on the linkage of primary and on-farm system operations, and the strengthening and
empowerment of water management groups. Four of such model areas were established in each province.
These were largely successfully operated for one to two cropping seasons.
- 20 -



Through the activities in the integrated O&M Model Areas, a better understanding of soil and water
management issues was possible. This added to the knowledge already available from other, sirmilar,
projects. The generally recommended soil and water management focuses on controlled drainage of the
fields and flushing of the canals in order to create an environrnent supportive to plant growth. Dead-ended
canals and stagnant water conditions are to be avoided, whereas the standard tertiary drainage spacing
should be reduced from 400 m to 200 m. Over-drainage is a phenomena widely misrepresented. During
extreme dry seasons such as the El Nino, ground water tables may fall independent of the hydraulic
infrastructure and the level of water control. The occurrence of acidity and toxicates can not be avoided and
hydraulic designs and operations should emphasize the evacuation in addition to the avoidance of such
toxics
A normal maintenance cycle has to be respected otherwise a disproportional increase in rehabilitation cost
is incurred later. In the case of ISDP an emergency O&M program had to be instituted to September 2000.
This emergency program was needed due to the lack of fund previously planned from GOI (APBD) as part
of the impact of the economical crisis.
The emergency program in combination with the experience in the O&M Model Areas allowed for an
innovative approach to participatory O&M in swamp development schemes during the final part of project
implementation. The ISDP program adapted successfully to reforms in the water resources policies
(WATSAL) thereby improving the sustainability of project efforts. The emergency O&M funds were
largely used to implement maintenance by the Water User Associations who assumed the role of small
contractor for the purpose. The program was supported by training and supervision by Community
Organizers (CO's) recruited by local NGO's who in turn were trained by staff in O&M Model Areas. The
Model Area and CO program needs continuation as the impact is still limited due to time constraints.
The field research of ISDP is an extension of the ongoing swamp research in Karang Agung, South
Sumatera. The outcome of field level research in FSTA's demonstrated the usefulness of the program to
better understand agricultural and land characteristics of the project area. Recommendations on input
technologies (fertilizer, etc.) were generated in the FSTA's, and those will support the improvement of the
agricultural production in the whole ISDP area. Other FSTA's outcomes are: (I) Bio-physical land
characterization covering 22,604 ha in 8 scheme in West Kalimantan and 4,100 ha in three scheme in Riau;
(2) Six new high yield varieties for low land area released for application; (3) Micro-level on-farm water
management and integrated pest management technologies to be adopted by farmers.
Table 6.1
Indicators for Food Crop Production
No.  Indicators                   Without        With       Increment      SAR Target
Project      Project       (%)         (With Project)
1.    Annual cropped area (ha)    31,051     45,558        14,507 (46)   55 - 104
2.    Cropping intensity (%)    98.00         144.00       46.00        120 - 140
(46.00)
3.    Cropping pattem           Less          More
Diversified    Diversified
4.    Avrg. Yield level (t/ha):
4.1   Paddy (milled dry)        2.00          2.90         0.9 (45.00)   2.2 - 3.5
4.2   Maize (dry shelledd)      0.60          1.10         0.5 (83.33)
4.3.  Soybean                   0.70          1.00         0.3 (43)     0.6- 1.2
- 21 -



The CRF sub-component did not perform as well as expected with rather low reimbursement rates. In some
schemes the CRF worked very well though. Among the determining factors affecting success or failure of
the CRF program was the drought in 1997 and 1998 that lead to loss of product. Although CRF and other
food crop development support services were fairly implemented, some key main crop production
indicators showed that improvement of farmers income had been realized, as shown in Table 6.1 above.
Coconut planting has achieved the target of 12,500 Ha with the total participation of 10,571 farmers'
families. During the immature period of the hybrid coconut, farmers plant annual inter-crops such as
paddy, maize and soybean. The total production of these inter-crops from 1994/1995 up to March 2000 is
8,144 tons with the value of Rp. 2,725,036,273. As of March 31, 2000 some 936.32 Ha of hybrid coconut
produced 981,125 nuts and coconut sugar of about 500 tons with the total value Rp. 1,262,929,100.
Eventhough the due date for credit repayment has not come yet, 120 farmers (39 farmers in Riau and 81
farmers in West Kalimantan) have been fully paid their credit with the total of Rp. 131,100,913.
As this is a second-phase swamp development project the environmental considerations are limited. In other
words, whatever impact to the environment took place, it took place in the frst-phase of swamp
development.
7.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The full benefits generated from ISDP will need several years to manifest themselves after the Project
works have been completed. Several Project works started during the last years of Project implementation.
In particular, P3A's empowerment through the "new method" approach in O&M implementation is still in
the initial stage. Coconut hybrid development needs another two years of maintenance budget supported by
GOI. Regarding project sustainability, there are therefore several factors that need to be considered
including the following: O&M and P3A empowerment; agricultural extension and training; maintenance of
TDUs, FSTAs, Model Areas, and post-project monitoring and evaluation.
Under the Project, a detailed inventory of "lessons leamed" took place referring to such aspects as (1)
project formulation, (2) survey, investigation and design, (3) construction, (4) O&M, (5) empowennent of
water user associations , (6) drinking water supply and rural road, (7) training, (8) agricultural
development, (9) tree crop development and land titling, (10) environmental issues, and (11) project
management and coordination. These aspects need to be evaluated and addressed in the future to ensure the
sustainability of project efforts.
Part of the activities to ensure project sustainability includes the preparation of the Post Completion
Operation Plan, addressing (I) completion of remaining works and remedial actions, (2) O&M, (3)
on-going agricultural extension work, (4) completion of land titling, and (5) the Post-Project M&E System.
Govenmment Commnitment. Provincial Bappedas expressed concem regarding on the importance of ISDP in
agricultural and economic development. Provincial final workshops in three provinces recommended to
continue implementing an integrated approach to swamp development and expressed the hope that the
World Bank would continue to support swamnp development in their provinces, possibly through an ISDP
Phase II. Remaining ISDP work will be financed by GOI (Bappedas) through the respective executing
agencies. O&M and other necessary works will have to be supported by provincial governnents.
-22 -



It is suggested in this context that the World Bank would lend support for at least three more food
crop-planting seasons, especially for empowering P3As organization. During the same period (three food
crop planting seasons), World Bank support is also required for technological transfer and institutional
strengthening. TA grant money is also suggested for post project monitoring and evaluation.
Regarding sustainability, several institutions that have been established during ISDP will have to be
maintained. In particular, the Model Areas, FSTAs, and TDUs. The model areas offer an excellent
opportunity for strengthening the sustainability of the Project. Their continuation in parallel with O&M is
seen as important to the sustainability of the Project. Agricultural sustainability needs continuous
technology improvement. FSTA, TDU and RECs performances are necessary to serve the purpose of
continuing technology transfer on the farm level.
8.    BANK PERFORMANCE
That ISDP has been implemented satisfactorily is due in part to the good cooperation between the World
Bank and GOI. In particular, the effectiveness and responsiveness of the resident staff of the World Bank in
Jakarta when supporting GOI's executing agencies in implementing ISDP. The supervisory missions have
been implemented as planned. The missions proved to have a significant impact on the implementation of
the Project works on schedule as well as employing correction if necessary.
The World Bank issued NOLs for the implementation of ISDP activities as required. However, the World
Bank issued NOLs for the implementation of ISDP activities without due consideration for the proper
sequencing of Project activities as indicated in the Project Implementation Schedule given at the end of the
SAR However, had the Bank, through the issuance of NOLs, dictated the sequencing of development
activities for ISDP, then the Bank would in effect have been put in the position of managing the Project,
which would not have been right. The proper sequencing of activities for an integrated project such as
ISDP should therefore, be clearly specified in the Project design itself (i.e. agricultural extension takes
place only after the civil work has been done) and not only be presented in a schedule of activities which
can then easily be rendered invalid by delays, as was the case for ISDP.
The reallocation of Loan proceeds among categories took place three times during the implementation of
ISDP. This would not have been necessary if there had been more flexibility in Loan categorization, e.g., if
Civil Works category could be used for all agencies as required. One of the ways in which ISDP could
have been implemented more efficiently would have been to have more general expenditure categories. In
particular, a single category for civil works would have been more flexible from a management point of
view.
9.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Delegation of responsibilities without commensurate authority has been a problem for ISDP. For example,
the role of the Loan Coordinator was never clearly established. It should be possible for senior officials in
GOI to delegate part of their authority to lower levels and have that authority respected within the confines
of the authority delegated.
The different philosophy between DGWRD and DGFCH regarding drainage and irrigation regimes was a
perennial problem. Such fundamental differences should have been resolved at the design stage, before the
Project started. Agreement would have also been made between DGFCH and DGE since annual and
perennial crops need different systems of drainage and irrigation.
- 23 -



All key documents for ISDP (e.g. SAR, Loan Agreement, etc.) should have been formally and properly
translated from the very beginning of the Project. This way, misunderstandings because of poor
comprehension of the design and implementation strategy for the Project could have been avoided.
10.    LESSON LEARNED
10.1   General Lowland Development
a.    Existing swamp schemes have good potential for upgrading and improvement of agricultural
production if the areas are well selected and if support is provided to farmers and farmer organizations;
b.    Project timing is to be adapted to the requirements of rural development, especially in the context
of swamp development. Sufficient time, commitment and flexibility is required to bring development to the
desired level.
c.    Project management should be improved as to ensure real integration rather than only the
co-ordination of activities and budgets.
d.    More use is to be made of local institutes and NGO's in development in existing swamp schemes,
also to ensure the transfer of expertise to the area;
10.2   Project Formulation
a.    Proper sequencing of activities is essential, and sufficient time should be allocated to each phase of
the project. For example, construction works in a scheme should start only in the year after completion of
designs; agricultural tests and demonstrations should start only after rehabilitation of the infrastructure is
completed, etc.; development of P3As on the other hand should start as early as possible, to allow for their
participation in the design and rehabilitation works.
b.     Project implementation period: a consequence of proper sequencing of activities is that the project
implementation period will have to become longer.
10.3   Surveys, Investfgations and Design (SID)
a.     Standardization: With physical conditions being sirnilar in many areas, design work could be made
much more efficient by the establishment of national standard as already exist for irrigation project. A first
attempt to establish such standards has been made by ISDP but needs further discussion and elaboration
with all involved.
b.    Farmer participation in the design: In ISDP, attempts were made to involve the farmers and other
Govenmment agencies in the design. However, the procedures and involvement of other Govenmment
agencies and the farmers signs should be included in the terms of reference.
10.4   Construction
a.    Pre-construction meetings:  Before the construction, PU and the contractor should arrange
pre-construction meetings with the farmers/beneficiaries. At these meetings the proposed works and
implementation schedule are explained, and comments and suggestions from the farmers are discussed and
may lead to modifications in the implementation of the works.
-24 -



b.    Quality assurance: The procedures have been devised by ISDP as well as by other projects. It
should be carefully considered which parts of these procedures can be adopted, and contracts agreement
should be adjusted accordingly.
10.5   Operation and Maintenance
a.    Maintenance capability of P3A: Tertiary canals in swamp schemes often have a considerable size
and it is not realistic to assume that newly established P3As can immediately take full responsibility for
maintenance of these canals. Some form of government supports required. Over time, with the P3A gaining
experience, the government support can likely be reduced.
b.    O&M Model Areas have proved to be an effective means to introduce sound water management
and O&M practices at field level, and to activate the P3As. Such Model Areas, in combination with
demonstration sites from the agriculture department (FSTAs, TDU), should be managed jointly by the
P3A, the goverment field staff, and a community organizer. Recruitment of a group organizer from the
local comnmunity is important to ensure sustainability of the results. Detailed monitoring of field conditions
is essential to assess the effect of water management practices, and to adjust project guidelines to the local
conditions.
c.    Drainage Service Fee: While farmers should always be required to pay an annual membership fee
to the P3A, the time seems not yet ripe for introduction of a Drainage Service Fee to finance a major part
of the O&M of the scheme.
10.6   Empowerment of Water User Organizations, or P3A
a.    P3A activities: A water user organization only for the purpose of O&M of drainage canals is in
many cases unlikely to be sustainable. Therefore, the P3As should be encouraged to start other activities
besides O&M, for example savings and loan funds, cooperative input supply or marketing, operation of
mechanical equipment like a tractor for land preparation or pumps for irrigation supply, etc.
b.    Guidance by NGOs: Although goverunent regulations stipulate that the Kepala Desa and field
staff of PU and Pertanian is responsible for establishing and' guiding the P3As, during the initial stages
assistance from non-governmental organizations is highly desirable as they are more trusted by the farmers
han the government staff.
c.    P3A as contractor: Implementation of emergency O&M program through farmer participation
proved to be an excellent way to provide the P3A with funds to kick-start their own activities. Community
organizers proved very effective to assist the P3As in technical aspects, to strengthen the management and
book keeping activities of the P3A, and to guide the P3A in proper use of the funds. While initially the
P3As may be able to do only simple routine, it is expected that with experience gained over time larger
works can be managed by them.
10.7   Drinking Water Supply
a.    The provided rain water collection tanks to each individual household and installing deep wells in a
few selected locations were highly appreciated by the communities. Where possible, local materials should
be used and local artisans employed to manufacture the tanks, as was done successfully by ISDP in West
Kalimantan (cement jars).
-25 -



b.    Farmers living nearby but outside the scheme boundaries may have to be included in a highly
beneficiary program like the provision of rain water tanks, to avoid social inequality and jealousy.
10.8   Training
a.    Co-ordination: Training of farmers by the various agencies should be well co-ordinated. At the
start of the project a provincial training committee should be formed, with one or two permanent members
of each of the participating agencies, who would formulate the project's training program and co-ordinate
its implementation.
b.    A single training course is unlike to bring about any change in behavior. At a minimum, some time
after the training follow - up session are required to evaluate together with trainees the effect of the
training. Ideally, training should be part of an overall plan to improve work performance, which besides
training might include adjustments in the job descriptions, in organization of the work, in supervision and
incentives, improvement of facilities and equipment, etc.
10.9   Agricultural Development
a.    Demonstration sites: Within ISDP, both the AARD and the Dinas Pertanian have set up field
demonstration plots, respectively called FSTAs and TDUs. This not only led to duplication of effort but
also sometimes to contradictions in recommended fanring practices and input package. It is recommended
that test / demonstration areas set up by AARD only, preferably as part of the O&M Model Areas, and that
the resulting recommendations on crops/varieties, cultivation methods, required inputs, pest control etc. are
used by Dinas Pertanian in their programmes for training and extension, CRF, marketing, integrate pest
management, etc.
b.    Marketing: Only those crops should be demonstrated for which there is a market, and extension
staff should consult with the private sector active in the area. Constraints to marketing should be identified
(lack of information about market opportunities, insufficient storage, processing or transport facilities, etc.)
and ways how to overcome these should be discussed with agencies concemed and at project co-ordination
meetings in the district o-: province.
c.    Revolving fund activities (CRF): should only use credit deposits to the Kelompok Tani or P3A
bank account. Input packages as used in ISDP are not recommended because of problems with the
packages not appropriate to actual field condition, too late delivery of the packages, distortion of local
market mechanisms, etc. Proper training programs to improve the administration and book keeping skills of
the farmer groups should accompany the CRF activities.
d.    Integrated Pest Management (IPM) was introduced in ISDP only at a late stage, after it appeared
that the farmers were sometimes using dangerous and already banned pesticides. IPM should become a key
activity in any swamps project, including training programs (training of trainers, field schools for farmers),
preparation/distribution of extension material etc.
10.10  Tree Crop Development and Land Titling
a.    Co-ordination DGE and BPN: In ISDP, cadastral surveys are carried out and land titles are issued
by BPN to farmers selected for the tree crop development program by DGE. This requires close
co-ordination between the two agencies so that the surveys and land titling is completed before the planting
program starts. It also appeared that many existing land titles were not valid anymore because of
unregistered transactions since the date of the issue of the original certificate.
- 26 -



b.     Maintenance budget for coconut which was planted during the last two years will be provided,
because it is part of the credit package
c.     Diversification: While the ISDP tree crop program  focused on coconut, demonstrations on
inter-cropping with coffee and cacao were conducted as well. Inter-cropping could well provide additional
income to the farmers, and efforts should continue in future swamp projects.
10.11   Environmental Issues
a.     Herbicides and pesticides are used by many farmners because of insufficient labor for land
preparation and weeding, and because of frequent pest attacks to the crops. In some cases already banned
products were being used in the ISDP areas. These issues should be addressed primarily by introducing
integrated pest management (IPM) in the areas.
b.     Increased flooding: In a few low areas, where flood protection dikes are improved, these dikes may
divert floodwater and increase flood hazards elsewhere. These effects should be studied carefully case by
case.
10.12   Project Management and Co-ordination
a.     Co-ordination meeting: Regular (monthly) co-ordination meetings at central and provincial level
are important for implementation of multi-agencies projects. Each agency should appoint a contact person
who will routinely join all co-ordination meetings to improve communication and ensure continuity. The
role and authority of the contact person should be clearly defined. The responsibilities and authority of the
co-ordination secretariats should be agreed. The role of especially the provincial secretariats in determining
the project activities should be strengthened so that better integration of the activities can be achieved.
b.     Common approach: Besides administrative and programming issues, the co-ordination meetings
and co-ordination secretariats should also pay attention to technical issues. Through exchange of
experiences and discussion a common approach to scheme development should be developed.
- 27 -



11.   POST COMPLETION OPERATION PLAN
11.1  INTRODUCTION
ISDP supported inter-sector activities designed to upgrade the level of agricultural production services in
the selected Project schemes and thereby improve the standard of living the intended beneficiaries.
However, several activities still remain to be done to achieve the anticipated effects on production in order
to increase farmer incomes. These activities include: completion of remaining work and remedial actions,
operation and maintenance (O&M), on-going agricultural extension work, completion of land titling, and
post project monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
11.2   COMPLETION OF REMAINING WORK AND REMEDIAL ACTION
It is essential that all Project work be satisfactorily completed for the full benefits of the Project to be
realized. At the end of the Loan period there are still some outstanding Project work remaining to be
completed as well as some remedial action to take place.
Coconut development is one of the ISDP components that must be completed. There are 1,275 hectares in
West Kalimantan and 2,120 hectares in Jambi that will require maintenance funds for two more years after
Project completion (namely, after September 30, 2000). Therefore, DGE will have to assign appropriate
budgets in years 2001 and 2002 (DIP) to complete coconut development in West Kalimantan and Jambi.
11.3   OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
Operations and maintenance (O&M), is carried out once development project actiVities have been
implemented. The "as built drawings" should be available to the users as well as all the maintenance and
operation manuals prepared during the Project. O&M might also include here on-going training such as
community health education regarding the maintenance of water tanks.
In terms of the sustainability of the Project, O&M will be critical. This in turn will require the support and
strengthening of the O&M field organisations, the Water User Associations (P3A); the farmer groups, the
farmer communities; and, the farmers themselves. Their contribution will be essential to the sustainability
of the Project results and benefits.
O&M has to fit into a supportive institutional framework (present at all the appropriate levels, national,
provincial and district) with the necessary laws, personnel, funding, supporting facilities, and possibly
including cost recovery through service fee regulations.
11A    ON- GOING AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION WORKS
A number of on-going agricultural extension activities will need to continue once the Project is over
(September 30, 2000). These activities include dissemination of new technology, IPM information and
training, CRF and Seed Grower Development.
Dissemination of New Technologies. Dissemination of the new technologies has to be continued after the
completion of the project, not only for the purpose of continuing technological improvement but also to
reach optimal resources allocation as recommended. These activities include field demonstrations both in
REC and TDU areas, as well as in outside farmer fields.
- 28 -



IPM. Pest is really a serious problem in the ISDP area. However, IPM implementation is still at an initial
stage. Accordingly, continued guidance in implementing IPM on farm is necessary.
Seed Growers Development. The guidance, quality control and labeling by the authorized agency also
needs to be continued to support expected sustainable seed production increases.
Capital Revolving Fund. The repayment is relatively low due to: (a) unwillingness farmers to pay back;
(b) lack of trust in the Chairmen of Farmer Groups; (c) poor harvests; (d) administration not appropriate.
There is a tendency for it to decrease from one year to the other. Consequently, the continuation of the
CRF, as well as guidance are necessary after completion of the Project.
11.5   COMPLETION OF LAND TITLING
The completion of land certification program for the benefit of farmers cultivating the land is crucial to the
sustainability of the Project benefits. Without the assurance that the land is theirs, farmers are less
motivated toward their plantations. In fact, there are still 1,000 hectares of land certification for cultivated
land that remains to be done. This is planned to be completed in year 2001 using GOI funds.
11.6   POST PROJECT M&E SYSTEM
When ISDP is completed, the formal M&E system established to track the progress of the project will
cease. However, in the "post project" phase, after the Loan period is over, a number of M&E elements
should continue to track the performance of the Project achievements.
In the case of ISDP, the responsibility for the establishment of a "post project" M&E could rest with
Bappenas and the relevant provincial Bappedas, who should ensure that the relevant parts of the formal
M&E system are continued after the end of the Project Loan period. For example, the O&M budgets and
their use might continue to be monitored, the P3As might be regularly evaluated as to their continuing
effectiveness, the scope and quality of the continuing agricultural extension activities might be assessed
periodically, the sustainability of new fanning systems introduced might also be assessed, the area and
quality of the cultivated land might be measured yearly, as should the yields and cropping intensities in
each scheme. Eventually, the impacts of ISDP might be evaluated by means of an evaluation study. The
incomes and the welfare of the targeted poor farmers in the Project schemes should also be regularly
measured and compared to those before the Project.
A "post project" M&E will provide management with the means to track the "development status" of the
Project areas in the years following the end of the Project Loan period. Should the "development status"
decrease over time, then management should intervene in order to find the cause of the decrease and to
arrest such a decline. Otherwise, over a period of time all the anticipated benefits of ISDP could be erased,
leaving only the Loan to be repaid. In addition to the on-going monitoring of the "outcomes" performance
indicators, an evaluation of the overall Project impacts by means of an impact study might also be
considered at a later stage. In order to carry out such an impact study, some assistance from the World
Bank might be necessary in the form of a TA grant.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(N/A)
- 29-



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
COMMUNITY-CENTERED MONITORING: FARMERS MONITORING WB PROJECT (ISDP)
In 1997, an NGO Yayasan Duta Awam (YDA) conducted a community-centered monitoring of a World
Bank project, the "Integrated Swamps Development Project." The monitoring was conducted over 15
months and was carried out by 37 farmer monitors (trained in participatory monitoring and evaluation
methodologies), who interviewed 342-farmer respondents from 15 villages in West Kalimantan and Riau
Provinces. Extensive problems were uncovered during the monitoring process -including increased
reliance on toxic chemical pesticides resulting in rise of pesticide poisonings, increased use and dependence
on hazardous pesticides (WHO Class la/lb/II); increased indebtedness from use of expensive inputs,
exclusion of women from educational activities and training, lack of transparency regarding terms of loan
repayment and widespread corruption.
As farmer monitors compiled this information and shared the results with farmer participants, they realized
that these numerous problems were not the isolated and unlucky misfortune of a few individuals, but rather
representative of the conditions affecting many ISDP participants. It became starkly clear that lack of
transparency and accountability in the management of this project had fostered corruption and the
marginalization of farmers.
In late 1998, the affected communities presented their findings as well as a list of concrete
recommendations for a project reform to the'Government and WB officials at precedent-setting provincial
and national seminars facilitated by YDA. A major outcome of the National Seminar was series of
agreements reached between government officials and community members. The agreements included
numerous commitments by ISDP officials to implement certain correction or improvements (e.g. inventory
and repair of faulty hydraulic construction; education about and distribution of water storage tanks and
other supplies; provision of agricultural training; facilitation of farmers' participation in determining
contents of "input package" and in planning of irrigation and waterworks construction; distribution to
farmers of photocopies of land certificates; clarification of credit system and debt repayment; and regular
provision of complete information to farmers' on bank account savings and debt status.
All of these findings then were confirmed by Fact Finding Survey which was conducted in July 1999. After
one year of steady effort, the ISDP has been transformed in several important ways. The project hired and
placed "community organizer" in the field to respond to farmers' concerns; in some areas corrupt practices
of collecting "fees" or requiring farmers to sign blank forms for goods not received were stopped; the
government with assistance from WB produced written guidelines for farmers laying out the terms of their
loan packages and conditions of repayment; implementation of IPM, adopting "IPM National Programme"
method, encourage more participation from farmers in the agricultural input design; for new CRF areas, the
project used revised CRF manual, the list of the items in RDKK (Definitive Planning for Farmer Group
Input Need) should be signed by farmers participant, instead of using IR types varieties, the project
promoting use of new variety which is improved local varieties, produced by research component under the
project or previous projects; improved supervision from BPP (Balai Penyuluh Pertanian); repairement of
non-function infrastructures, hold pre construction meeting with project target group as conditionality of
construction; and the WB agreed to stop handing out chemical pesticides, WB in Jakarta performed a more
strict control on procurement of pesticide, all proposals for procurement packages for pesticide regardless
its size, should be sent to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
- 30 -



10. Additional Information
In 1998 a national NGO, in cooperation with an International and several local NGOs as well as with
farners selected the project as a sample for their participatory monitoring, by involving farmers. Free
access to project sites was provided by project management to this group of NGOs. The outcomes of the
monitoring indicated several serious implementation problems, which seemed to be in line with project
performance rating during that period, which was unsatisfactory. A fact finding survey which was carried
out after that jointly by the NGO, a university team, and project management confirmed most of the
problems. The reports were discussed transparently through seminars arranged by the NGO in provincial
as well as central level. Participating in the seminar were farmers, field implementation units, government
staff, as well as the Bank representative. All problems such as pesticide use, corruption, minimum
inclusion of farmers during the project process, and quality of works, were discussed. Comprehensive
remedial action was prepared and implemented after that. Much improvement has been made since then,
strengthening the lesson that effective stakeholders involvement in project implementation is essential and
highly effective.
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator                         Appraisal          Actual/Latest
Estimate            Estimate
DOI: Reduce poverty in the selected swamp
schemes
Increased food crop areas                          45,000-55,000           32,000
Increased new tree crop areas (ha)                    12,500               12,500
Increased cropping intensity of food crops (/O)      120-140               133
Increased food crop yield/paddy with project (t/ha)  2.5-3.50               2.8
Increased value-added such as sugar production                             positive
Improved accessibility to markets and public services.                     positive
Improved access to drinking water                                          positive
Wage employmentlyear                                                 3 million person-day
Incremental net income/ha
- food crops (Rp'000 in Yr 2000 price)                  760                 970
D02: Improve managerial capacity in coastal
zones and in swamp development practices
Improved capacity through implementation, training                         positive
and studies, particularly at central and provincial
levels
Strengthened rural community institutions such as                          positive
WUA
Increased involvement of NGOs, civic societies                             positive
- 32 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator                         Appmasal Esfimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Water Control Infrastructure                        .
- Dykes (km)                                               10,000                        8,000
- Structures (no.)                                          1,200                        1,200
Gross Areas Developed (ha)                                78,000                        81,000
Food Crop Area (ha)                                    45,000-55,000                    32,000
Tree Crop Area (ha)
- Hybrid coconut                                          12,500                        12,500
- Intercropped coffee/cacao                                                               450
Crop Yields (tons/ha)
- Food crop/paddy With Project                            2.5-3.5                         2.8
- Tree crop/copra With ProjecUtyear                                                       2.6
Cropping Intensity/food crops (%)                         120-140                        133
Production (ton)
-Paddy                                                    65.000                        53.300
- Soybean                                                  6.000                         5.400
- Maize                                                    1.500                         5.400
- Copry                                                   48.000                        33.800
- Cocoa                                                                                    100
- Coffee                                                                       -           90
- Sugar                                                                                   945
- Cassava                                                 30,000
Demonstration, Farn Inputs
- FSTA (no.)                                                10                             19
- TDU (no.)                                                 30                             35
- Farn inputs (hayCRF                                     34,000                        31,700
Training/tree crops
- Staff(no.)                                                                              470
- Farmers(no.)                                                                           7,400
Training/food crops
- Staff (no.)                                                                             540
- Farmers (no.)                                                                         12,400
- Women (no.)                                                                            9,750
Land Titling (ha)                                          12,500                       10,548
Farmers' Organisations (no.)                     __800
Water user association                                                                  220
- Farmer groups/tree crops (no.)                                                          481
- Capital revolving fund groups (no.)                                                     800
Rural Infrastructure
- Roads (Iam)                                                150                          179
Jetties (no.)                                               10                           14
- Drinidng water/household (no.)                          27,270                        42,000
- Drinking water/communal (no.)                              55                            43
Other Income-generating Activities
- Sugar production (unit)                                                                  19
- Coconut oil (unit)                                                                        7
Beneficiaries
- Tree crops (farmers)                                                                  10,752
- Food crops (farmers)                                    30,000                        28,500
- Drirnking water (households)                            27,270                        42,000
- Drinking water (communities)                                55                           43
- WUA (no.)                                                                               220
- 33 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Component                      Appraisal            Actual/Latest        Percentage of
Estimate              Estimate            Appraisal
A. Water Control Infrastructure           32.1                   31.2                  97
B. Food Crop Production                    11.0                   6.4                  58
C. Agricultural Field Research             3.1                   2.2                   70
D. Tree Crop Development
- Coconut Planting                         16.4                   7.7                  47
- Land Titling                              1.0                   0.6                  60
Sub-total                                  17.4                  8.3                   48
E. Rural Infrastructure
- Roads and Bridges                        7.2                   8.1                   112
- Potable Water Supply                     8.0                   6.3                   79
Sub-total                                  15.2                  14.4                  95
F. Coastal Zone Management
- Berbak Park and Buffer Zone              2.7                    1.4                  52
- Environmental Profile                    0.4                    0.2                  50
Sub-total                          .       3.1                    1.6                  52
G. Project Management                      4.0                    2.4                  60
H. Emergency O&M                                                  1.7                  100
1. Others                                                         1.1
Total Baseline Cost                       86.0                   69.3
Physical Contingencies                     7.0           _
Price Contingencies                        13.0        1                       1
Total Project Cost                        106.0                  69.3                  65
-34 -



Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Annex 2A
Expenditure Categories              Procurement Mehod                               Procurement Method
Appraisal Estimate            _               Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB    NCB    Other    NBFI tal              ICB       NCB       Other       NBF       Total
1. Civil works                   47.5                        47.5               34.2                             34.2
________ __  (28.8)          _      (28.8)              (24.1)                          (24.1)
2. Vehicles                                         1.1       1.1                                      0.8       0.8
(0.0)    (0.0)                                     (0.0      (0.0)
3. Equipment             0.7     0.7                         1.4                 1.8                              1.8
(0.6)   (0.6)                        (1.2)               (1.3)                           (1.3)
4. Ag. Facilities &              10.2      9.7      5.1       25                 7.6        2.6        2.2       12.4
Inputs                          (9.3)    (5.7)    (0.0)    (15.0)               (6.9)      (2.4)      (0.0)     (9.3)
5. Consulting Services &
Studies                                                       _                _.                  .
(a) Implementation                         7.7               7.7                            6.0                  6.0
Support.                                  (7.7)     _        (7.7)                         (6.0)                 (6.0
(b) Inst. Capacity                        10.5               10.5                           7.7                  7.7
Building                                 (10.5)             (10.5)                         (7.7)                 (7.7)
(c) Studies                                1.8               1.8                            0.6                  0.6
(1.8)             (1.8)                         (0.6)                  (0.6
6. Incr.Admin. Costs                                5.0      5.0                                       2.6       2.6
(0.0)    (0.0)                                    (0.0)      (0.0)
7. Iner. O&M Costs                                  6.0      6.0                                       1.4        1.4
(0.0)    (0.0)                          _         (0.0)
8. Emergency O&M                                                                 1.2        0.5                   1.7
_________  ________   _________         (1.2)     (0.5)                 (1.7)
9. Project Management                                                                       0.1                  0.1
(0.1 )               (0.1)
Total                    0.7    58.4      29.7      17.2    106.0                44.8      17.5        7.0       69.3
(0.6)  (38.7)   (25.7)             (65.0)              (33.5)    (17.3)      (0.0)     (50.8)
- 35 -



Annex 2B
Component                     Apraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate       Percentaee of Appraisal
Bank  Gov.  Co-   Total   Bank   Gov.  Co-tin.  Total  Bank   Gov.C       -   Total
fin.                         _I_                           fin.
A. Water Control           18.2  13.9          32.1   23.5    7.7            31.2   129      55            97
Infrastructure
B. Food Crop Production     9,0  2.0           11.0    5.7    0.7             6.4    63      35            58
C. Agricultural Field       2.7   0.5           3.2    2.0    0.2             2.2    74      40            69
Research
D. Tree Crop Development        _____
- Coconut Planting     12.8  2.4   1.2    16.4    6.3    0.7       0.7    7.7    49      29     58     46
-Land Titling           0.9  0.1   0.0      1.0    0.5    0.1             0.6    52    100        -    60
Sub-Total                  13.7  2.5   1.2    17.4    6.8    0.8       0.7    8.3    50      32     58
E. Rural Infrastructure
-Roads and Bridges       4.0   3.2           7.2    5.7    2.4        -    8.1   138      75       -   110
- Potable Water Supply   3.7  3.1   1.2      8.0    3.9    1.8      0.6    6.3   103      75     50      79
Sub-Total                                              9.6    4.2      0.6   14.4        .
F. Coastal Zone
Management                ___
- Berbak Park & Buffer   2.3   0.4           2.7    1.2    0.2        -    1.4    55      50       -    54
Zone
- Environmental Profile    0.3   0.1         0.4    0.2       -       -    0.2    67       0       -    50
Sub-Total                                              1.4   0.2              1.6
G. Project Management       0.0  4.0            4.0    0.1    2.3             2.4   100      57       -    60
H. Emergency O&M            0.0   0.0           0.0    1.7      -             1.7   100       0       -   100
1. Others                   0.0  0.0            0.0      -    1.1             1.1      0    100       -   100
Total Baseline Costs       53.9  29.7   2.4      86   50.8   17.2      1.3   69.3
Physical Contingencies     3.8  2.1   1.1      7.0      -      -        -      -
Price Contingencies        7.3   4.0   1.7    13.0             -        -      -
Total Project Costs        65.0  35.8   5.2   106.0  50.8   17.2       1.3   69.3    78      48     25      65
- 36 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 3
Cost Benefit Analysis
Economc Analysis                 Financial Analysis
Latest                           Latest
Appraisal       Estimates        Appraisal       Estimates
Incremental farm income/I ha food crops
(in Rp.)                                                                    760,000           970,000
Incremental farm income/I ha hybrid
coconut at full development (in Rp.)                                               -          615,000
Production (ton)
-Paddy                                      65,000            53,300
- Soybean                                    6,000             5,400
- Maize                                       1,500            5,400
- Copra                                     48,000            33,800
-Cocoa                                                           100
- Coffee                                                          90
- Sugar                                                         945
ERRs (%)                                        15              11.7 1                                1
- 37 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/ear   Count              Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
1988                        3
1989                        3
1990                        8
1991                        2
1992                        7
1993                        6
Appraisal/Negotiation
1993                        2
1994                        9
Supervision
July 1994                    5   WS,AG,AE,IR,AG                        S               S
November 1994                1   AE                                    S               S
June 1995                    4   AE,IR,AG,TC                           S               S
March 1996                   5   WS,TC,AE,IR,AG                        S               S
November 2996                6   AE,AG,DR,EN,WS,IR                     S               S
June 1997                    7   AE,AG,DR,EN,WS,IR,MC                  S               S
May 1998                     6   AE,EN,CO,IR,AG,WS                    U               U
October 1998                 2   AE,IR                                U                U
February 1999                2   AE,IR                                U                U
November 1999                6   IR,WS,AG,DR,PS,AE                    U                U
March 2000                   4   IR,TC,WS,AG                           S               S
ICR
September 2000              9    IR,WS,AG                              S               S
(2),EC,RS,DR,EN,TC
Notes: WS: Water Supply, AG: Agriculturist, AE: Agroeconomist, IR: Irrig. Eng., TC: Tree Crop,
DR: Drainage Eng., EN: Environment Spec., MC: Micro Credit, CO: Spec. Consultant, PS: Pest Specialist
RS: Rural Specialist, EC: Economist
U = Unsatisfactory; S = Satisfactory; 1 = no significant problems; 2 = moderate problems.
(b) Stalff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 152                        440.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                       92                        268.4
Supervision                                159                        318.8
ICR                                         40                         65.0
Total                                      443                       1,092.6
- 38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
I Macro policies                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Sector Policies                            O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
E Physical                                   OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                                  OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Institutional Development                  0 H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
Environmental                               O H  * SU O  M  O N  O NA
Social
OPoverty Reduction                   O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
ZGender                              O H OSUOM O N O NA
2 Other (Please specif)              * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Implementation Transparency
Z Private sector development                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector managementH                  0     O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                     O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Note:
Objectives - Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
Components - Relates to the outputs specified inthe PAD.
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformnance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS*S Ou OHU
? Supervision                                       OHS OS  *U  OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  * u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
2 Government implementation performance             O HS O S   * U  0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
- 40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
(The following documents are available in Bank file)
Appendix A: Aide-Memoire
Appendix B: Water Control
Appendix C:Rural Infrastructure
Appendix D:Food Crop Development
Appendix E: Tree Crop Development
Appendix F: Coastal Zone
Appendix G:Environment Aspects
Appendix H:Financial and Economic Analysis
- 41 -



- 42 -



'I  v                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                               I          V           t        {\
DIL-                                                                                                     120AND 2
Jando Aceh
South China Sea                                                                        PHILIPPINES
D.l. ACEH \;% MALAYSiA                                                                                         
o   dSUMAnXp         uu^Ls                              ~                                 2UL                                             Cetebes
MMA TE~                                    1                                         MAAYSIA|
\SN  70                              KALIMANTAN TI Pndo
M \ _t\___ FF    ileeiR@24870 OSS W51UAAgr
   c=, t SUMATERA,  ekanba    detawilsee IBRD 24871          KALIMANTAN BARAT
o                 o   _ ~~~~~~~CzPonf                                             IMrNT         Samarindo
Padang   I<D detail see IBRO 24869                              r detoiA IBR
/  Ford detail see IRRD  24873   detailsee \B      2
biami                                                     KALIMANTAN TENGA                                 L
JAMBI                                                                                                         LWSe 
t  \   ~~<              <\   S            \           \    2           7'alangkaroya  i2     r        
E  EsESKULU  5SUMATERAPam
Ben    EL    SELATAN                                                                                                                 Kendari
5.     LJJv'dcUNG                        Sea                                                   ~cUiung Pondong/)rTENGGARA
iput ~~JAWA c 
Semora                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Flores
IAWA BARAT  JAWA TENGAH                                    NUSA TENGGARA                       Seo
URA  aAL)    ~ BARAT
Yagyka                AWTUR                        SUA48AWA
INDONESIA                                         9JYGYJARAFLORES
I N D O N E S I A                        M         oto                  L ra                 R            (7~D, I Y
IWr INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                  LGMBOK                            TIMUR
O      PROJECT LOCATIONS                                                                                        S EJM                  Kupang
(3    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                 INDIAN OCEAN
*3    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                 Timor Sea
PROMINCE BOUNDARtES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NM   0  100  200  3M  4m  5m                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This mop ha!s bean prepared by The World Bank's s-taff eycl.sn'ely for   -
,ase e       tee     20e      30e      So       Xoe                                                   the co s,enienc of readers and is for the internal use of The World   0a
__________________________________________________                       Bank Grou.p. The denominations used and the boundaries shov-n on this  XO
-mp do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment  Ca
I  450                                                                   o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n the leattus af any territo.y or any endorsement or acceptance of
-|   taEeeo       20 s                                                                                    such boundaries. 
IOD'                                                                                                                         12oY                                            01  ;






IBRD 24869
INTEGRATED SWAMPS D~~~~~~~EVELOPMENPRJC
JAED MBW PROJEC AREA T  OEC
PROJECT SCHEMES,
0 00g0~~~~~~~,   S    'TOWNS
uOADS" 111
X                        %~~~~~~~~~~Q
gUuTERAin .a                              Pon,a    8ARAT
This snap h=s bean prep=red                                                                                     m       A      R antaur-.,u
by TbeWorld Bonk'sstaff                                                                                                      iAMB U<'     
of rearders and is for he                        0               5              10                        O                        , . S ;9tI -MATERA      N   L "  ani
intenol Os of The World Book                     I               I               I UllfSGuuslTNpibsbo
andl   heEboDndNriesGsb                                    1, KILOMETERS                                        O   AN,"
part a/The World Bank Groop                                                   bl ,2,p,.,t L.!,'/ ................... ".ff                                                      ?,ANG
any jodBsent on tbe leg=l                                                                                        Li jw ,ee,., ,ArPNGe .  '  '  e      
st=tus= ofny tnritaryor any                                                                                          Proifi.,w Bdbi"l  ' t 
'ssdBnRIAU le          NNJAAN
endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                      -                    ,en SeahW
soch hoondaries.                                                                                              :>-   bro            ior,t ]         ~             nrS
JUNE 1993






IBRD 24870
INDONESIA                                                                   "r,,I 
INTEGRATED SWAMPS                                              Lu Mu  6 
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT A
RIAU - SIAK PROJECT AREA                                            A @
PROJECT SCHEMES
VILLAGES                                           ;
0 TOWNS
-   ROADS                                  /     Sepoo 
Mk~~~~~- CANALS ~~~~~~~~~Tg. Layang
RIVERS         Lubukgaun   r   Xen,;
by    Thed W aXd Bnak                                                                                                      '|saff
exluivl  fa the co8n enanc
iaternKl use  nf Tkn   Wadd  Bank
pert0 of Th 2od BAn 4u   Suna  Beb
endersement an acceptonue af ~~ ~  ~         ~         ~         ~         eng
sack boundaries ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  k  asi
JUNE 1 993






IBRD 24871
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RIAU - INDRAGIRI PROJECT AREA
PROJECT SCHEMES
'_ VILLAGES
*  TOWNS 
ROADS
iiiiiii -   CANALS
d RIVERS
CINAKU 11 \\INAKU  11
CQ NA                                       BAR
KILOMETERS                                     w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REE
E       m                                                                                                               ,=:'X=-~~~~~~~ P
Podon ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    TEU
0     2   1               /1 
LAM I         I        'I  Ii~~'k                                             ~                                           b  odBn' tl
p.k ~ ~ ~ ~ 2            ~                                                                                             Gsp
RIAUl       ~         J"                                                                                                    ,, h es,ois hss
OCEAN              ''         'I" I ,/''                                                                               00 Ins nnopdo not ~055 tIs
SELATAN0 p   /                                                                                                pon ft lm. TWorldBo,k Gop
'Pronn~~~oBoospdorp~~s' ~~  559  Thi'4"~~~'     ~don.roosT,s ronmptooc od
*   - ~~~InoPonctfBons4nsnloa  I"                                          RdtBh Awe!             ssssrh ~~~~~~~~~~~bonodoris.d
JUNE 1993






IBRD 24872
INDONESIA
INTEGRATED SWAMPS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ERA.    AAKALIMANTAN BARAT PROJECTTAREA
B    KULUK SCllELAPhTMlES
E4D~AN   B  > fOUw               X        O         5         10  ,AA
, -UR4n SE.Pnieroiono ARTl KIOETR suTh' ho d2es
JAYA 11~~~~~~~~UN 19
t   >   \    < _ A M B < t ,   9 .   >  j  S S Ia    S   V             b y T h e W c d c S c k '5RA S A U
I   _ Wr,,, _                                j                       ,    --,,~RASA






IBRD 24873
Luamr            ku
madatuk@                   Sungaijambat e
ambur                                          SungaisayanO
|                    K~~~~~nahdl R<a                       ,u u                              g                    
,ndis                            0 Sungirbut                                                                    ma
v ugipua;           ,,.,,A                                             pAt,,                                .
/t         ~~INDONESIA                                           -J,                                                                          ''^'
INTEGRATED SWAMPS
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  
BERBAK NATIONAL PARK AREA
Labua prn
'i BERBAK NATIONAL PARK 
*      TOWNS                                                                      / ,,  ,
RIVERS
PA.~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ b                                                               4!     0 X1ti  !..
.'k-'"''', t        'r --,-.
5A,UMA     ".j'0*A            UAP A
SI)  TRA     ~SE"'A     '0~BAA
KLILU SELATANOPOIere   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I     ~W-info -s of The World Boels
GIAP 'pegbsI   r;$.,~~A,i1fii~',7'4'I''',                                                                           Group. 7h. d-noin-ti-n use
OCEAN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~KILOMETERS                                                                                 0edth b-udaries shue
JUNE 1993



