Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3755 IND
                              Loan Agreement
                  (Integrated Swamps Development Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 25, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3755 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
Page  2
      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
            any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a) "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower's fiscal year commencing
on April 1 and ending on March 31;
      (b) "Project Provinces" means the Borrower's provinces of Jambi, Riau
and West Kalimantan;
      (c) "Project Swamp Schemes" means selected swamp schemes in the
Borrower's provinces of Jambi, Riau and West Kalimantan;
      (d) "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the Borrower's currency;
      (e) "Smallholder" means a farmer and his or her spouse, participating
under Part C.1 of the Project;
      (f) "Smallholder Credit Agreement" means an agreement entered into
between the Borrower and a Smallholder for the provision of credit to such
Smallholder for the establishment and maintenance of plantings; and
      (g) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
sixty five million dollars ($65,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one  percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
Page  3
      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c) For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out (i) Parts A, D, F.1 and F.3 of the Project
through the Directorate General of Water Resources Development in the
Borrower's Ministry of Public Works, (ii) Part B.1 of the Project through
the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development in the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture, (iii) Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and F.2 of the Project
through the Directorate General of Food Crops and Horticulture in the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, (iv) Part C.1 and C.2 of the Project
through the Directorate General of Estates in the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture, (v) Parts C.3 and E.1(c)(ii) of the Project through the
Borrower's National Land Agency, and (vi) Part E, except E.1(c)(ii), of the
Project through the Directorate General of Forestry Protection and Nature
Page  4
Conservation in the Borrower's Ministry of Forestry, all with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, engineering, environmental and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than nine months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
Page  5
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                        By  /s/  Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By  /s/  Marianne Haug
Page  6
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)       Civil works for:                           60%
          (a)  Parts A and D        25,650,000
               of the Project
          (b)  Part B.2 of the         150,000
               Project
          (c)  Part C.1 of the         200,000
               Project
          (d)  Part E of the           100,000
               Project
(2)       Equipment and                              100% of foreign
          materials (except                          expenditures,
          vehicles) for:                             100% of local
                                                     expenditures
          (a)  Parts A and D           300,000       (ex-factory cost)
               of the Project                        and 65% of local
          (b)  Part B.1 of the         230,000       expenditures for
               Project                               other items
          (c)  Part B.2, B.3,          340,000       procured locally
               and B.4 of the
           Project
          (d)  Part C.1 and C.2        210,000
               of the Project
          (e)  Part C.3 of the         100,000
               Project
          (f)  Part E of the            20,000
               Project
(3)       Agricultural labor          3,700,000      50%
          for Part C.1 of
          the Project
(4)       Agricultural inputs                        91%
          (except fertilizers)
          for:
          (a)  Part B.1 of the        1,450,000
               Project
          (b)  Part B.2, B.3          3,650,000
               and B.4 of the
               Project
          (c)  Part C.1 of the        3,600,000
               Project
(5)       Services for land             900,000      100%
      titling for Parts
          C.3 and E.1(c)(ii)
          of the Project
(6)       Studies for:                               100%
          (a)  Part F.1 of the          700,000
Page  7
               Project
          (b)  Part F.2 of the          900,000
               Project
          (c)  Part E of the             50,000
               Project
(7)       Training for:                              100%
          (a)  Parts A and D           550,000
               of the Project
          (b)  Part B.1 of the          75,000
               Project
          (c)  Part B.2, B.3         1,750,000
               and B.4 of the
               Project
          (d)  Part C.2 of              75,000
               the Project
(8)       Engineering                5,500,000       100%
          services for
          surveys, design and
          supervision of
          construction
          for Parts A and D
          of the Project
(9)       Consultants' services                      100%
          for:
          (a)  Parts A, D            4,000,000
               and F.3 of
               the Project
          (b)  Part B.1 of the         600,000
               Project
          (c)  Part B.2, B.3         2,000,000
               and B.4 of
               the Project
          (d)  Part E of the         1,800,000
               Project, except
               E.1(c)(ii)
(10)      Unallocated                6,400,000
                                    __________
          TOTAL                     65,000,000
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c) the term "agricultural inputs" means seed, planting material, hand
tools, and agro-chemicals (except fertilizers).
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
    (b)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) until
the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower
has provided the vehicles referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement for FY 1994/1995;
    (c)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (3) where
withdrawal requests are received by the Bank:
Page  8
    (i)   after April 1, 1995, until the Bank has received evidence,
          satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has completed the
          cadastral surveys relating to the coconut plantings to take place
          in FY 1995/1996;
    (ii)  after April 1, 1996, until the Bank has received evidence,
          satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has: (A) completed the
          cadastral surveys relating to the coconut plantings to take place
          in FY 1996/1997; and (B) issued land titles to participating
          coconut growers in areas where coconut plantings were established
          in FY 1995/1996;
    (iii) after April 1, 1997, until the Bank has received evidence,
          satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has: (A) completed the
          cadastral surveys relating to the coconut plantings to take place
          in FY 1997/1998; and (B) issued land titles to participating
          coconut growers in areas where coconut plantings were established
          in FY 1996/1997; and
    (iv)  after April 1, 1998, until the Bank has received evidence,
          satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has: (A) completed the
          cadastral surveys relating to the coconut plantings to take place
          in FY 1998/1999; and (B) issued land titles to participating
          coconut growers in areas where coconut plantings were established
          in FY 1997/1998; and
    (d)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (4) until
the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower
has supplied farmers with the required fertilizers, as agreed with the Bank,
under Parts B.3 and C.1 of the Project for the 1994/1995 planting season.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods below $200,000 equivalent, contracts for works below $1,000,000
equivalent, contracts for the employment of consulting firms not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, and contracts for the employment of individual
consultants not exceeding 50,000, under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are (i) to alleviate poverty in selected
swamp schemes in the Borrower's provinces of Jambi, Riau and West Kalimantan
through further development of the agricultural potential of such swamp
schemes, and (ii) to assist the Borrower in managing part of the coastal
zones and in ensuring sound environmental practices in swamp development.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: Water Control Infrastructure
1.  Rehabilitation of existing, and construction of new infrastructure in
Project Swamp Schemes to provide adequate flood protection, drainage relief,
and water level control capability; provision of rainfall recording and
automatic water level recording equipment and stations in such areas; and
provision of technical assistance.
2.  Strengthening the operation and maintenance of existing, rehabilitated,
and new water control infrastructure in the Project Swamp Schemes,
including: provision of equipment and transportation; establishment of water
user associations in the Project Swamp Schemes; training of the members of
the water user associations and of the staff of the Provincial Water
Resources Services of the Borrower in the Project Provinces in the
preparation and implementation of water management plans; and provision of
technical assistance.
PART B: Food Crop Production
Page  9
1.  Strengthening the swamps research program at Karang Agung research
station in the Province of South Sumatra, and about ten field research sites
within the Project Swamp Schemes, through, inter alia, provision of
equipment, materials, transportation and technical assistance.
2.  Strengthening of agricultural extension services in the Project Swamp
Schemes through, inter alia, rehabilitation of about ten rural extension
centers with associated staff accommodations, establishment of about thirty
tertiary hydraulic management units for demonstration purposes, provision
of training and technical assistance to extension workers and farmers, and
provision of equipment, materials, transportation and financing for
operational costs.
3.  Provision of a one-time in-kind grant to about 600 farmer groups for
about 27,500 farmers in the Project Swamp Schemes for agricultural inputs
for one hectare of agricultural land.
4.  Provision of equipment and financing of the operation of seed production
and distribution programs and pest control programs.
PART C: Tree Crop Development
1.  Planting of about 12,500 ha of hybrid coconut trees within the Project
Swamp Schemes and in land adjoining such schemes, including, for the
planting year, provision of cover crop and inter-crop seed and planting
material, coconut planting material, fertilizer, agro-chemicals, hand tools,
and labor payments; and, thereafter, provision of credit to Smallholders for
maintenance costs, including fertilizer, agro-chemicals, and labor payments.
2.  Provision of training for Smallholders, staff of Project management
units, and staff of Directorate General of Estates in the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and staff of the Provincial Estate Crops Services
involved in the carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project.
3.  Carrying out of land titling activities in the Project Swamp Schemes and
adjacent areas, including cadastral and land use surveys and certification.
PART D: Rural Infrastructure
1.  Rehabilitation and asphalting of about 25 km of existing roads in Jambi
and Riau; construction of about 126 km of roads in Riau and West Kalimantan;
rehabilitation and reconstruction of bridges; clearing of navigation canals;
repair, reconstruction, construction, and extension of jetties in Jambi,
Riau and West Kalimantan; all in and around the Project Swamp Schemes; and
provision of technical assistance.
2.  Provision of potable water supply systems for individual households,
village centers, health clinics, and schools, in the Project Swamp Schemes;
provision of training to local technicians and non-governmental
organizations in the construction and maintenance of such water supply
systems; and provision of technical assistance.
PART E: Coastal Zone Land Use
1.  Jambi Province
    (a)   Establishment of a natural resource database to identify
ecologically important areas for protection and restoration and generate a
spatial plan based on developmental potential, and provision of technical
assistance.
    (b)   Improvement of the Berbak National Park, through survey and
marking of park boundaries, upgrading of office and transport facilities of
the Jambi Provincial National Park Service, staff training, establishment
of a management plan for such park, and technical assistance.
    (c)   Promotion of socio-economic development in areas adjacent to
Berbak National Park, through (i) the carrying out of agricultural
development activities, (ii) the carrying out of land titling, and (iii) the
provision of technical assistance.
Page  10
2.  West Kalimantan Province
    Preparation of environmental profiles covering all coastal wetlands,
provision of training programs on integrated environmental planning for
provincial staff, and provision of technical assistance.
PART F: Studies and Technical Audits
1.  Carrying out of studies for the introduction of drainage fees and for
the preparation of the Borrower's proposed future projects in swamp
development.
2.  Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation studies of the Project.
3.  Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of technical
audits of the activities under Parts A through D of the Project.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 2000                              1,230,000
August 15, 2000                                1,275,000
February 15, 2001                              1,325,000
August 15, 2001                                1,370,000
February 15, 2002                              1,420,000
August 15, 2002                                1,470,000
February 15, 2003                              1,525,000
August 15, 2003                                1,580,000
February 15, 2004                              1,640,000
August 15, 2004                                1,700,000
February 15, 2005                              1,760,000
August 15, 2005                                1,825,000
February 15, 2006                              1,890,000
August 15, 2006                                1,960,000
February 15, 2007                              2,030,000
August 15, 2007                                2,105,000
February 15, 2008                              2,180,000
August 15, 2008                                2,260,000
February 15, 2009                              2,340,000
August 15, 2009                                2,425,000
February 15, 2010                              2,515,000
August 15, 2010                                2,605,000
February 15, 2011                              2,700,000
August 15, 2011                                2,800,000
February 15, 2012                              2,900,000
August 15, 2012                                3,005,000
February 15, 2013                              3,115,000
August 15, 2013                                3,230,000
February 15, 2014                              3,345,000
August 15, 2014                                3,475,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
Page  11
below:
    Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this  Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.        To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
Page  12
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.        Bidders for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,400,000 or more per contract, shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.        Except as provided in paragraphs 4 and 5 below, goods estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $8,900,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.        Except as provided in paragraph 5 below, goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
5.  Coconut seed nuts shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
6.  Labor for Part C.1 of the Project shall be awarded after direct
negotiations with participating farmers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
7.        Land titling services may be carried out by force account, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part C.2
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and each contract for civil works to cost
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
    (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
Page  13
3.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than January 15, 1995, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than 50,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to (i) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to 50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall select
schemes in accordance with the criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
2.  In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   make arrangements to ensure that farmer groups are formed in each
of the Project Swamp Schemes; and
    (b)   make in-kind grants available to a farmer group for the members
of such group after ascertaining that such farmer group has the ability to
manage a revolving fund in which farmers deposit, after the harvest, funds
in an amount equal to the value of the in-kind grant received by such farmer
for further use by the members of the farmer group to purchase required
agricultural inputs for the following crop season.
3.  In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   establish Project management units in the Project areas where
required;
    (b)   select farm families in accordance with criteria agreed with the
Bank, and shall keep records, acceptable to the Bank, of the screening
process and of the selected families;
    (c)   provide credit to farm families and administer Smallholder Credit
Agreements in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement; and
    (d)   in consultation with the Bank, review from time to time the level
of credit repayments to be made by Smallholders under Part C.1 of the
Project, taking into account the cash flows of such Smallholders; and,
thereafter, make any adjustments to such payments as agreed with the Bank.
Page  14
4.  In carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall complete the
respective cadastral and land use surveys in the year prior to the year in
which coconut planting is to take place, and shall issue land titles to the
participating coconut growers during the year in which coconut planting is
undertaken.
5.  In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project the Borrower shall:
    (a)   before starting the construction of the roads referred to
thereunder, but not later than March 31, 1995, furnish to the Bank, for
comments, draft guidelines for the construction of such roads, prepared by
the Directorate General of Water Resources Development in the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works; and
    (b)   thereafter, issue such guidelines taking into account the comments
of the Bank.
6.  In carrying out Part D.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall  cause each
village to prepare work plans setting forth, inter alia, the following: (i)
the list of households agreeing to pay at least 10 percent of the value of
the individual potable water systems in the form of labor or other
acceptable form of contribution; and (ii) the undertaking by the village to
cover the cost of operation and maintenance of such systems.
7.  The Borrower shall provide fertilizers and vehicles for the Project in
accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank.
8.  In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank for comments:
    (a)   by September 30 in each year, commencing December 31, 1994, until
completion of the Project, the Project work program and cost estimate for
each Project Province for the following Fiscal Year, including: design and
total cost estimate for each scheme where construction is scheduled to start
in the next fiscal year, provision of vehicles and fertilizers, and proposed
budget allocations for operation and maintenance of existing water control
works in the Project schemes; and
    (b)   by December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 1994, until
completion of the Project, the budget proposals for the Project work
programs agreed with the Bank.
9.  Without limitation to Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall, not later than July 1 in each year, commencing July 1, 1995,
until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank evidence, satisfactory
to the Bank, that the Borrower has substantially expended the budgetary
allocations for operation and maintenance of existing water control works
in the Project schemes for the prior Fiscal Year.
10.       In carrying out Part F.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than June 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank for comments, the findings and
recommendations of the study of options for the introduction of a drainage
fee in swamp schemes.
11.       The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to start, not later
than April 1, 1996, the collection of land and property taxes (Pajak Bumi
Dan Bangunan) in the Project Swamp Schemes.
12.       In carrying out Part F.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than June 1, 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments, the terms of reference and proposed organizational arrangements
for the carrying out of the technical audits of Parts A through D of the
Project;
    (b)   cause technical audits to be carried out annually, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, during the implementation of the Project, commencing
not later than April 1, 1996; and
    (c)   annually, commencing not later than October 1, 1996, furnish to
the Bank, for comments, a copy of such audits.
Page  15
                                SCHEDULE 6
                  Criteria for Selection of Swamp Schemes
                       Under Part A.1 of the Project
1.  The Borrower shall confine the schemes to be selected to existing
settled schemes.
2.  The Borrower shall carry out a review of the technical, environmental
and economic aspects of the proposed works for each scheme, in particular
hydro-topography and suitability of soils for cropping.
3.  The Borrower shall ensure that the proposed improvement works are
necessary and have been endorsed by the community of intended beneficiaries
and the local authorities.
4.  The average estimated cost (in 1993 prices) of civil works for drainage,
irrigation and flood control works shall not exceed Rp 1.5 million ($723
equivalent) per cultivable hectare for each individual scheme, unless the
Borrower provides evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the economic rate
of return of the direct investment for works for such individual scheme is
estimated at 12 percent or more.
5.  Beneficiaries shall undertake to organize themselves in water users
associations to facilitate the operation and maintenance of tertiary canals
and of field channels.
                                SCHEDULE 7
               Credit Repayment Administration Arrangements
                        for Part C.1 of the Project
1.  Credit shall be provided by the Borrower to the Smallholder through the
relevant Project management unit.
2.  Credit shall be used for maintenance costs during the immature period
of the trees.
3.  Credit shall consist of agro-inputs and payments for partial cost of
labor provided by family members.
4.  Smallholders shall be required to enter into Smallholder Credit
Agreements with the Borrower, such Agreements to include the following:
    (a)   repayment obligations shall be over a maximum period of 12 years
from the time the trees are mature;
    (b)   repayment obligations shall be established in a manner to yield
an effective annual interest rate of 21%; and
    (c)   land titles shall be retained by the Borrower until the
obligations of the Smallholder under the Smallholder Credit Agreement shall
have been complied with.
5.  The Project management unit shall coordinate with farmer groups
concerning the collection of credit repayments from each Smallholder. The
Project management unit collecting staff shall issue a collective
provisional receipt per farm group setting forth collections made from each
Smallholder. The Project management unit shall deposit the collections with
a depository bank in accordance with procedures specified by the Ministry
of Finance.
6.  The staff of the Project management unit shall record Smallholder credit
repayments in the credit repayment accounts, and shall prepare a collection
report for submission to the Project management unit provincial office, the
Project management unit Jakarta Head Office, the Directorate General of
Estates, and the Ministry of Finance.
7.  Statistics of collection performance shall be maintained by the Project
management unit and shall be related to amounts currently due and overdue,
Page  16
and shall include an analysis indicating the duration of defaults on amounts
due.
                                SCHEDULE 8
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (9) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
Page  17
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
