Report No. PID10124
Project Name                     Latin America-Guarani Aquifer Project ... @
International Waters Mercosul (GEF)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       LlGE68121
Borrower(s)                      MULTI-COUNTRY PROJECT
Implementing Agency              Argentina
Address: Ministerio de Infraestructura y
Vivienda, SubsecretarUa de Recursos HUdricos,
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250, piso 11, Of. 1128,
C1086AA Buenos Aires, Argentina
Contact Person: Victor Pochat,
Director Nacional
Tel: +54-11-4349 7427
Fax: 54-11-4349 7427
Email:vpochat@miv.gov.arg
BRAZIL
Ministerio do Meio Ambiente, Secretaria de
Recursos Hidricos- CODEVASF,
SGAN Quadra 601, lote 1, Edificio 7 Quarto
andar. CEP 70.830-90. BrasUlia,
Brazil - Contact Person: Raymundo Jose Santos
Garrido, Secretario
Tel: +55-61-224 1004,
Fax: +55-61-225 4760,
Email:raymundo-jose.garrido@mma.gov.br
PARAGUAY
Direcci6n General de Recursos HUdricos -
Secretaria del Ambiente (SEAM),
Avenida Madame Lynch 3500, Asunci6n, Paraguay -
Contact Person: Celso Velazquez - Director Nacional
Tel: +595-21-615811 ,
Email: vcelso@telesurf.com.py
URUGUAY
Ministerio de Transportes y Obras Publicas,
Direcci6n Nacional de HidrografUa, Rinc6n 575
20 P., Montevideo 11000, Uruguay. Contact Person:
Luis Enrique Loureiro, Director Nacional
Tel: +598-2-916 4783/84,
Fax: +598-2-916 4667,
Email:dnh@uyweb.com.uy
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 20, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         December 10, 2001
Projected Board Date             March 12, 2002



1. Country and Sector Background
The importance of groundwater, especially of large, deep aquifers, stems
mainly from the fact that these resources constitute a strategic reserve
for water supply. Such groundwaters rarely need to be treated prior to
consumption. Natural biogeochemical filtering processes within the
aquifers generally achieve a quality far beyond that which could be
obtained, in technical or economic terms, by the available water treatment
methods applied to waters withdrawn from rivers, lakes, or impoundments.
Groundwater is frequently the most viable water supply alternative,
especially where surface waters are polluted by domestic and industrial
effluents, solid wastes, or contaminated agricultural runoff.
Consequently, sustainable use, development and recharge, and diligent
conservation, consistent with the protection of the aquifers from
pollution, should be important concerns. As a transboundary aquifer with
thermal qualities, the Guarani Aquifer System touches upon three sectoral
areas; namely, sustainable water management (of groundwater in
particular), transboundary water management, and energy use. These areas
are elaborated below.Sustainable (Ground)water Management: In the four
countries overlying the Guarani Aquifer System, water sector issues
include: institutional arrangements for integrated water resources
management, and investments in water infrastructure and sustainable
management of that infrastructure. An important issue in all four
countries is water pollution. With respect to groundwater, this issue
translates into a package of topics related to: (i) the recognition of
groundwater as a resource in need of far more attention than it has been
given to date; (ii) integration of groundwater management concerns into
overall water resources legislation (which tends to focus on surface
water); (iii) assessment of groundwater availability (related to
quantification and modeling of the resource, including availability and
demand scenarios); and (iv) groundwater protection measures (zoning, water
rights, anddesign, construction, extraction and pollution controls).
Overall, these issues have not been adequately addressed in any of the
countries, although the governments are now moving toward completing
assessments.Transboundary Waters: The beneficiary countries have
long-standing experience in collaborating on transboundary water issues,
most notably with regard to the Plata River basin which has had a general
treaty and an Intergovernmental Committee since the 1960s. In addition,
bilateral projects and specific treaties exist with respect to other water
systems, such as the Uruguay River (Uruguay and Argentina), and the Parana
River (Brazil and Paraguay). To date, the success of these agreements has
been mixed, especially with respect to hydrological allocation and
pollution control issues. The countries do recognize, however, the
importance of cooperation in transboundary waters issues. The attempt to
reach an agreement on groundwater is a historical first and will certainly
enhance the dialogue on other waterbodies within the region and may
contribute to improve water management at a transboundary level.Energy
Use: In the context of this project, aspects related to energy use are of
relevance. First, the four countries use different types of resources to
satisfy their energy needs, ranging from hydropower to petroleum and gas.
With increasing economic growth in the Region, energy demands are rising,
too, leading the countries - to varying degrees - to look for more
efficiency in the use of their current sources and also for substitutes.
This is especially the case for heavily hydropower-dependent Brazil, which
is currently passing through an energy crisis due to drought and increased
- 2-



energy demands. Concurrently, all four countries are signatories of the
Kyoto Protocol for Global Warming, and, as such, have made commitments to
look for alternative, "clean" energy sources. In this context, a careful
assessment of the potential for the use of the Guarani Aquifer System
waters for low-enthalpy energy may provide alternatives to fossil-fuel
based energy sources, and opportunities for local energy savings for
industry, irrigation, and/or domestic hot water supply.
2. Objectives
The long-term objective is the sustainable, integrated management and use
of the Guarani Aquifer System. The Guarani Aquifer System is situated in
the eastern and south central portions of South America, and underlies
parts of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. This project is a first
step toward achieving the long-term objective. It is to support the four
countries in jointly elaborating and implementing a common institutional
and technical framework for managing and preserving the Guarani Aquifer
System for current and future generations. To provide such support, seven
project components are envisaged: (i) expansion and consolidation of the
current scientific and technical knowledge base regarding the Guarani
Aquifer System; (ii) joint development and implementation of a Guarani
Aquifer System Management Framework, based upon an agreed Strategic
Program of Action; (iii) enhancement of public and stakeholder
participation, social communication and environmental education; (iv)
evaluation and monitoring of the project and dissemination of project
results; (v) development of regionally-appropriate groundwater management
and mitigation measures in identified "Hot Spots"; (vi) consideration of
the potential to utilize the Guarani Aquifer System's "clean" geothermal
energy; and, (vii) project coordination and management. These are
elaborated in Annex 2.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has operations and long-standing policy dialogues regarding
different aspects of water management in each of the four countries. A
large number of water projects have been implemented with World Bank
support in the region. In Brazil, the World Bank has conducted an
extensive review of the water resources, irrigation, and water supply and
sanitation sectors, leading to the development of an integrated water
supply and water resources management strategy for its operations in
Brazil. Jointly with the Government of Argentina, the World Bank has
recently completed a comprehensive review of the water sector, and the
final report of this study is being disseminated. During 2001, the World
Bank is conducting a similar comprehensive review of the water sector
together with the Government of Uruguay. The combination of the sectoral
knowledge of the World Bank and its experience in financing projects in
the region is particularly supportive of this project.The recent First
Biennial GEF International Waters Conference, held in Budapest (Hungary)
between October 14-18, 2000, demonstrated the World Bank to be a leading
agency in implementing GEF International Waters Projects. Considerable
in-house expertise and internationally-based knowledge of the main issues
relating to such initiatives has been developed. Currently, the World Bank
is involved in the implementation and/or preparation of some twenty-three
GEF International Waters Projects in Latin America, Europe, Africa, South
East Asia, and the Middle East. In addition, the World Bank is involved in
fifteen other, related GEF projects dealing with coastal and marine
issues, and nine aquatic biodiversity projects, having International
- 3-



Waters aspects.Global support to the Project is essential due to the
nature of transboundary waterbodies. The Guarani Aquifer System is unique
in the world due to its size, good water quality, and thermal energy
potential. The Guarani Aquifer System, therefore, constitutes an important
strategic transboundary reserve in the region. Nevertheless, without
global support for this project, short-term needs may supersede the
strategic, integrated management of the resource, and the countries might
decide to continue unilateral exploitation of the resource. To address
this concern, GEF support, in this case, should focus primarily on the
development and implementation of mechanisms and an institutional
framework to prevent over-exploitation and degradation of this
transboundary resource-the preventive focus of this project is unique
within the GEF International Waters Program. In addition, this project
would be the first groundwater project supported by the World Bank and
GEF, further contributing to the global importance of this initiative.
4. Description
The project is comprised of six components, supported by an administrative
component. GEF: US $ 13.40 million; co-funding: US $ 13.36 million; total:
US $ 26.76 million.COMPONENT I: Expansion and Consolidation of the Current
Scientific and Technical Knowledge Base on the Guarani Aquifer
SystemComponent I develops a sound scientific and technical basis for the
determination of the priority transboundary issues and associated
strategic remedial actions for the protection of the Guarani Aquifer
System. It is essential for the determination of an appropriate joint
management framework. GEF: US $ 4.78 million; co-funding: US $ 5.73
million; total: US $ 10.51 million.COMPONENT II: Joint Development and
Implementation of the Guarani Aquifer System Management FrameworkComponent
II is the core of the project and provides for an agreed technical,
institutional, financial, and legal framework for management of the
Guarani Aquifer System. Component II includes (i) harmonization and
enhancement of data gathering networks, (ii) creation of a data management
system serving the Guarani Aquifer System, (iii) development of joint
institutional arrangements for the management of the Guarani Aquifer
System, and (iv) formulation of strategic actions leading to the
integration and optimization of development initiatives and proposals
within the Guarani Aquifer System region. GEF: US $ 3.60 million;
co-funding: US $ 3.54 million; total: US $ 7.14 million.COMPONENT III:
Public and Stakeholder Participation, Education and CommunicationComponent
III provides for the practical involvement of stakeholders in
decision-making affecting the Guarani Aquifer System through both formal
and informal educational and informational programming. A Guarani Aquifer
System Citizens' Fund designed to provide cost-sharing funding to NGOs and
academic institutions is an integral feature of this Component. GEF: US $
0.56 million; co-funding: US $ 0.55 million; total: US $ 1.11
million.COMPONENT IV: Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Dissemination
of Project ResultsComponent IV consists of: (i) development agreed GEF-IW
process, stress reduction, and environmental status indicators-comprised
of goals, criteria, and standards, and implementation of a monitoring and
evaluation system to track Project progress in addressing the
abovementioned process, stress reduction, and environmental status
indicators; and (ii) dissemination of project results within and outside
of the Guarani Aquifer System region, including the implementation of
measures for consultation and coordination between GEF-IW project managers
working in the Latin American region (See Annex 20). GEF: US $ 0.48
- 4 -



million; co-funding: US $ 0.27 million; total US $ 0.75 million.COMPONENT
V: Development of Management and Mitigation Measures within Identified
"Hot Spots"Component V develops practical mechanisms and measures for the
mitigation of current priority problems in 4 Hot Spots: (i) two identified
transboundary localities within the Guarani Aquifer System area;
(Argentina/Uruguay and Uruguay/Brazil); (ii) one recharge/discharge area
of the Guarani Aquifer System (Paraguay); and (iii) a heavily urbanized
area of the Guarani Aquifer System (Brazil), supporting ongoing mitigation
and protection measures being undertaken by the Government of Brazil and
State of Sao Paulo. The objective of Component V is to develop and test
effective means and costs of quantifying, analyzing, managing, and
remediating the impacts of known threats affecting specific,
representative areas within the Guarani Aquifer System region (See Annex
18 for detailed description). GEF: US $ 2.18 million; co-funding: US $
1.32 million; total US $ 3.50 million.COMPONENT VI: Assessment of
Geothermal Energy PotentialComponent VI explores potential future
geothermal energy uses of the Guarani Aquifer System. The objective of
Component VI is to quantify and determine the potential value of the
Guarani Aquifer System as a source of "clean" geothermal energy, and to
communicate this assessment and appropriate guidelines with respect to
sustainable development and utilization of any potential geothermal energy
output of the Guarani Aquifer System to the respective stakeholders,
including the energy ministries within the Guarani Aquifer System region.
GEF: US $ 0.21 million; co-funding: US $ 0.04 million; total US $ 0.25
million.COMPONENT VII: Project Coordination and ManagementComponent VII
supports project management and coordination. Component VII facilitates
the liaison activities to be carried out by the Guarani Secretariat and
the operational activities of the coordinating and executing units in the
respective countries, as described in Section E.4. GEF: US $ 1.59 million;
co-funding: US $ 1.91 million; total US $ 3.50 million.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Country Governments                                       12.1
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY         13.4
BGR, IAEA, BNWPP AND BENEFICIARIES 1.26
Total Project Cost                                                 26.76
6. Implementation
Given the multinational character of the proposed project, institutional
and implementation arrangements were discussed in detail during project
preparation. Since the project is intended to bring about significant
institutional change (from the current lack of coordinated management of
the Guarani Aquifer System to its sustainable long-term management), the
future institutional arrangements to be developed as a component of this
project are an essential element that will determine its long-term
success. All the proposed activities will be driven by a Project Steering
Committee (CSDP: Consejo Superior de Direccion del Proyecto), with
coordination of the technical aspects of the project being provided by a
Coordinating Council (CC: Coordinacion Colegiada). The day-to-day
activities of the Project will be managed by the Guarani Secretariat (SG:
Secretaria General del Proyecto Sistema Acuifero Guarani) under the
direction of the OAS, with oversight from the CC. Activities within each
country will be carried out by country-based project executing units
(UNEP: Unidad Nacional para la Ejecucion del Proyecto), the heads of which
- 5 -



(the four National Technical Coordinators, one from each country) will
form the CC.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the project will be facilitated by involving
stakeholders in the project activities from the beginning. As previously
mentioned, the demand for this project originated in the countries. By
building human capacities and strengthening institutions, and further
sensitizing stakeholders, including those within civil society, it is
expected that the collaborative framework built up by the project will be
sustainable after the end of the project. Certain costs of the project,
such as maintaining the information system, are of a recurrent nature and
would require continuing financing by the governments and other
stakeholders after project completion. These costs, including the costs of
human resources and institutions, will have to be borne by the countries
within the Guarani Aquifer System region.As recently articulated at the
previously referenced GEF first Biannual Conference on International
Waters, the preparation of the Strategic Action Program, required by the
GEF, constitutes the first phase of a project involving international
(transboundary) waterbodies. It also implies that, in order to provide the
project (and the process of better managing transboundary waters) with the
necessary sustainability, a second phase needs be contemplated during
which the Strategic Action Program would be implemented. As the Strategic
Action Program is the principal output of this project, the need for
follow-up will be taken into account by including planning for the second,
implementation phase of the project into the last year of the current
project. In the case of the Guarani Aquifer System, a second phase would
imply investments in the protection of recharge areas, in the prevention
and mitigation of point-source pollution, and in measures to reduce
overdrafting of the Guarani Aquifer System in specific localities, as well
as development of activities related to the thermal characteristics of its
waters. Financing of the second phase might imply country resources, GEF,
World Bank, and/or other multi- or bilateral funding.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Project incorporates lessons learned in two strategic ways: first, by
using experience gained in the water and related sectors within each of
the four countries, and, second, by using the lessons learned by the World
Bank and OAS with regard to GEF International Waters Projects.National
experience in the countries. Good institutional policies are essential to
good water resources management, be they surface or ground waters.
Experience in Brazil, particularly in recent years, has illustrated that
policy dialogue is especially fruitful in the context of the preparation
of specific projects (e.g., the Pollution Control Projects in Minas
Gerais, Parand and Sao Paulo, which have led to significant institutional
change in each State; in Ceara where PROURB was a major catalyst in the
implementation of the State's Water Resources Law; and in PROAGUA, which
uses a two-tracked approach of demonstration projects and institutional
change). Notwithstanding, groundwater has been largely neglected in all
four countries, in spite of its overriding importance for water supply,
especially in Uruguay and in certain regions of Argentina, Brazil and
Paraguay. In Paraguay, the World Bank-financed 4th Water and Sanitation
Project relies exclusively on groundwater. In this sense, the Guarani
Project can have, and already has had, a catalytic effect on groundwater
management in the countries in general. In this context, ongoing projects
- 6-



in the region and the furtherance of the sectoral dialogue on
(ground)water resources management will be taken into consideration.GEF
International Waters Projects. A number of issues relating to GEF
International Waters Projects were highlighted at two recent events: the
World Bank stakeholder consultation held during June 2000, and the GEF
International Waters Conference held during October 2000. The latter event
included the then three GEF Implementing Agencies (IAs: the World Bank,
United Nations Development Programme, and United Nations Environment
Programme) as well as project staff and policy makers from around the
world. The messages emerging from these events underlined the need for
commitment from the countries and local demand for the project, both of
which exist with respect to the proposed project. In addition, it was
deemed essential that other agencies (multilateral and donors), having a
stake or on-going projects in the region, be involved. In the case of the
Guarani Project:n the General Secretariat of the Organization of American
States (OAS), which has been active as     Executing Agency for
UNEP-implemented GEF International Waters Projects, including projects on
the   Bermejo, Upper Paraguay, and San Juan River Basins, served as the
executing agency for the     preparation of this project;f the United
Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco), under
the auspices of    their Transboundary Aquifer Project, participated in
Guarani workshops during the project formulation     period;n the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which has previously been
active in all of the four    countries, will contribute to the
geohydrological aspects of the Guarani Project at the invitation of the
participating countries; and,n the German Government, which has provided
long-standing support to groundwater research in the     Paraguayan Chaco
and, recently, also in the Zona Oriental, is considering the provision of
technical and    institutional development assistance to the Paraguayan
portion of the project through the German     Geological Survey
(Bundesanstalt fuer Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe).An important aspect
of project design is the multilateral agreement on the institutional
framework for the conduct of the transboundary waterbody project and
Strategic Action Program formulation. Communication among the different
parties is essential, and the project coordination units in each country
(UNPPs: Unidades Nacionales de Preparaci6n del Proyecto), created during
project preparation, are proposed to be continued as a mechanism by which
stakeholders from governments, subnational-level governments, and civil
society (including NGOs and universities) will participate in the project.
A number of workshops at both the national and regional level are included
as a means of bringing together the actors from the four countries. The
regional level meetings will be facilitated by the Project Steering
Committee (CSDP: Consejo Superior de Direcci6n del Proyecto). Use will be
made of World Bank multi-country video facilities, as a practical means of
bringing stakeholders to the table without incurring high transaction and
financial costs of international travel. The hitherto positive experience
in this regard will continue to be reflected in the design of the
institutional arrangements for project implementation.GEF experience shows
that reliance on heavy administrative structures for the management of GEF
International Waters Projects is not necessary, and may even be
counterproductive due to the elevated recurrent cost. In elaborating the
institutional framework for the management of the Guarani Project,
institutional arrangements have been designed to be as pragmatic and light
as possible. To this end, the day-to-day execution of the project will be
undertaken by a small but effective Guarani Secretariat, which will serve
- 7 -



as the executive element of the CSDP and coordinate the activities carried
out by the UNEPs (Unidades Nacionales de Ejecuci6n del Proyecto).The
Project proposed herein also includes a number of pilot projects.
Experience in other World Bank projects has shown that such projects, to
serve their purpose, need good baseline data and well-designed monitoring
and evaluation, and complementary Components to accommodate this need have
been designed.Finally, GEF experience has indicated that a significant lag
time may occur between the preparation of the Strategic Action Program
(SAP) and its implementation. For this reason, this project has been
designed as the first phase of a larger Program for the Protection and
Sustainable Management of the Guarani Aquifer System. Therefore, the
elaboration of projects to implement the SAP will take place during the
last year of the proposed project. Such implementation projects may be
financed from a variety of sources, including national governments, the
World Bank, other multilateral banks, and donors.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        This is an environmental project. The objective of
the project is to ensure the sustainable management of the extensive
Guarani Aquifer System. The project seeks to prevent the environmental
damage, linked to groundwater pollution and depletion, that would
otherwise come about because of poor knowledge and lack of policy
coordination between the four countries (and their local governments)
which share the aquifer. In addition to improving planning and policy
formulation, the project supports specific environmental protection
measures, including: (i) improved control of water pollution (from point
and nonpoint sources); and (ii) designation of critical groundwater
recharge areas requiring conservation or other special management.
Although some future uses of the water resources of the Guarani Aquifer
System might involve adverse environmental impacts, the project would
study these potential impacts and promote plans and policies to adequately
control them. The project is expected to be highly positive from an
environmental standpoint.The project itself will not include any
infrastructure investments. It may take advantage of some wells to be
constructed by private or public utilities for other purposes. However,
the location of any such wells to be used for project scientific purposes
would be chosen in the context of promoting the environmentally
sustainable use of the aquifer.Likewise, Component VI is designed to
assess the potential economic uses of the thermal waters of the Guarani
Aquifer System. Depending upon the results of this assessment, concepts
for future utilization of these thermal waters may be designed. The
potential post-project development of thermal water resources might
require mitigation of possible adverse environmental effects related to
access road construction, thermal and chemical discharges, and noise.
Additional measures to protect specialized aquatic biodiversity in thermal
springs or pools may be required. Any needed or recommended environmental
mitigation measures for potential future thermal water development will be
identified through the environmental assessment (to be carried out in
parallel with the other pre-feasibility studies), an integral part of
Component VI.Key stakeholders-the national and sub-national governments in
the four countries, the population in the Guarani Aquifer System region,
local communities, NGOs, and academic institutions interested in
sustainable groundwater use in the region-have been, and continue to be,
- 8 -



involved in the project design and institutional arrangements for project
implementation (see Section 6). Provision is made within the project
management process to continue to engage key stakeholders in the SAP
formulation process.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Karin Erika Kemper
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: +1-202-473 1995
Fax: +1-202-614 1074
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 14,2001
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\Dec.14,2001\P068121.txt
December 11, 2001 10:55 AM
9



