Report No. 23460
Report No: I068121 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/21/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: LATIN AMERICA Project ID: P068121
Project: Project for the Environmental Protection and Sustainable
Development of the Guarani Aquifer System         Task Team Leader: Karin Erika
Kemper
Appraisal Date: December 4, 2001          IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: May 9, 2002 IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSES     Sector: VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The long-term objective is the sustainable, integrated management and use
of the Guarani Aquifer System. The Guarani Aquifer System is situated in
the eastern and south central portions of South America, and underlies
parts of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. This project is a first
step toward achieving the long-term objective. It is to support the four
countries in jointly elaborating and implementing a common institutional
and technical framework for managing and preserving the Guarani Aquifer
System for current and future generations.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project is comprised of six components, supported by an administrative
component. GEF: US $ 13.40 million; co-funding: US $ 13.36 million; total:
US $ 26.76 million.
COMPONENT I: Expansion and Consolidation of the Current Scientific and
Technical Knowledge Base on the Guarani Aquifer System
Component I develops a sound scientific and technical basis for the
determination of the priority transboundary issues and associated
strategic remedial actions for the protection of the Guarani Aquifer
System. It is essential for the determination of an appropriate joint
management framework. GEF: US $ 4.78 million; co-funding: US $ 5.73
million; total: US $ 10.51 million.
COMPONENT II: Joint Development and Implementation of the Guarani Aquifer
System Management Framework
Component II is the core of the project and provides for an agreed
technical, institutional, financial, and legal framework for management of
the Guarani Aquifer System. Component II includes (i) harmonization and
enhancement of data gathering networks, (ii) creation of a data management
system serving the Guarani Aquifer System, (iii) development of joint
institutional arrangements for the management of the Guarani Aquifer
System, and (iv) formulation of strategic actions leading to the
integration and optimization of development initiatives and proposals
within the Guarani Aquifer System region. GEF: US $ 3.60 million;
co-funding: US $ 3.54 million; total: US $ 7.14 million.
COMPONENT III: Public and Stakeholder Participation, Education and
Communication
Component III provides for the practical involvement of stakeholders in



decision-making affecting the Guarani Aquifer System through both formal
and informal educational and informational programming. A Guarani Aquifer
System Citizens' Fund designed to provide cost-sharing funding to NGOs and
academic institutions is an integral feature of this Component. GEF: US $
0.56 million; co-funding: US $ 0.55 million; total: US $ 1.11 million.
COMPONENT IV: Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Dissemination of
Project Results
Component IV consists of: (i) development of agreed GEF-International
Waters (GEF-IW) process, stress reduction, and environmental status
indicators-comprised of goals, criteria, and standards, and implementation
of a monitoring and evaluation system to track Project progress in
addressing these indicators; and (ii) dissemination of project results
within and outside of the Guarani Aquifer System region, including the
implementation of measures for consultation and coordination between
GEF-IW project managers working in the Latin American region. GEF: US $
0.48 million; co-funding: US $ 0.27 million; total US $ 0.75 million.
COMPONENT V: Development of Management and Mitigation Measures within
Identified "Hot Spots"
Component V develops practical mechanisms and measures for the mitigation
of current priority problems in 4 Hot Spots: (i) two identified
transboundary localities within the Guarani Aquifer System area;
(Argentina/Uruguay and Uruguay/Brazil); (ii) one recharge/discharge area
of the Guarani Aquifer System (Paraguay); and (iii) a heavily urbanized
area of the Guarani Aquifer System (Brazil), supporting ongoing mitigation
and protection measures being undertaken by the Government of Brazil and
State of Sao Paulo. The objective of Component V is to determine
effective means and costs of quantifying, analyzing, managing, and
remediating the impacts of known threats affecting specific,
representative areas within the Guarani Aquifer System region. GEF: US $
2.18 million; co-funding: US $ 1.32 million; total US $ 3.50 million.
COMPONENT VI: Assessment of Geothermal Energy Potential
Component VI explores potential future geothermal energy uses of the
Guarani Aquifer System. The objective of Component VI is to quantify and
determine the potential value of the Guarani Aquifer System as a source of
"clean" geothermal energy, and to communicate this assessment and
appropriate guidelines with respect to sustainable development and
utilization of any potential geothermal energy output of the Guarani
Aquifer System to the respective stakeholders, including the energy
ministries within the Guarani Aquifer System region. GEF: US $ 0.21
million; co-funding: US $ 0.04 million; total US $ 0.25 million.
COMPONENT VII: Project Coordination and Management
Component VII supports project management and coordination. Component VII
facilitates the liaison activities to be carried out by the Guarani
Secretariat and the operational activities of the coordinating and
executing units in the respective countries, as described in Section E.4.
GEF: US $ 1.59 million; co-funding: US $ 1.91 million; total US $ 3.50
million.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
-2 -



natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Guarani Aquifer System, named in honor of the Guarani Indigenous
Nation, is one of the largest groundwater reservoirs in the world. It is
located under the sub-surface of the four MERCOSUR countries: Argentina,
Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. Until the relatively recent discovery of the
Guarani as one interconnected system, its different parts were also known
by the names of Aquifer Botucatu in Brazil, Aquifer Tacuaremb6 in Uruguay
and Argentina, and Aquifer Misiones in Paraguay.
The Guarani Aquifer System extends from the center-west region of Brazil,
passing through Paraguay and regions in southeastern and southern Brazil,
reaching northeastern Argentina and central-western Uruguay, with a total
surface area of approximately 1.2 million square kilometers (839,800 km2
in Brazil, 225,500 km2 in Argentina, 71,700 km2 in Paraguay and 45,000 km2
in Uruguay). Its extension in Brazil alone, equivalent to 2/3 of the total
area and extending through eight Brazilian states, is equal to the areas
of England, France and Spain combined.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: This is an environmental project which seeks to ensure the
sustainable management of the extensive Guarani Aquifer System. The
project seeks to prevent the environmental damage, linked to groundwater
pollution and depletion, that would otherwise come about because of poor
knowledge and lack of policy coordination between the four countries (and
their local governments) which share the aquifer. In addition to
improving planning and policy formulation, the project would support
specific environmental protection measures, including (i) improved control
of water pollution (from point and non-point sources) and (ii) designation
of critical groundwater recharge areas requiring conservation or other
special management. Although some future uses of the Guarani Aquifer's
water resources might possibly involve adverse environmental impacts, the
project would study these potential impacts and promote plans and policies
to adequately control them. The project is expected to be highly positive
from an environmental standpoint.
The project itself will not include any infrastructure investments. It
may take advantage of some wells to be constructed by private or public
utilities for other purposes. However, the location of any such wells to
be used for project scientific purposes would be chosen in the context of
promoting the environmentally sustainable use of the aquifer.
Component 6 will assess the potential economic uses of thermal waters from
the Guarani Aquifer and, depending on the findings, design pilot
activities for thermal water use. The potential post-project development
of thermal water resources might require mitigation of possible adverse
environmental effects related to access road construction, thermal and
chemical discharges, noise, and perhaps specialized aquatic biodiversity
in thermal springs or pools.
As described in Section 6, key stakeholders are the national and
sub-national governments of the four countries, the population in the
aquifer area, local communities, NGOs, and academic institutions
interested in sustainable groundwater use in the region. These
stakeholders will be involved in the project through the appropriate
-3 -



design of the institutional arrangements for project implementation.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         Yes
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environmental Assessment:
This is an environmentally highly positive project which seeks to prevent
future degradation of the Guarani Aquifer, through improved information,
policies, planning, and specific pollution control measures. The project
does not include infrastructure investments. However, the assessment and
pilot design activities of Component 6 might lead to post-project energy
development or other thermal water use investments, which might involve
environmental impacts requiring special mitigation measures in the future.
Accordingly, this project is classified as Category B. The Environmental
Analysis for this project is part of the PAD. The environmental
assessment of any potential future thermal water development will be
carried out during project implementation, in parallel with other
pre-feasibility studies, under Component 6.
Indigenous Peoples:
Given that the project area encompasses 1.2 million square kilometers, a
number of indigenous groups living in the region are potentially affected
by the project. The project will not have any infrastructure or investment
components that would affect these indigenous groups. Some groups,
however, have indicated their interest in being incorporated into project
implementation as stakeholders.
An Indigenous Peoples Strategy (IPS), Sub-component 3d, has been designed
based on preparatory studies, consultations and discussions with key
indigenous actors and institutions and other related civil society
entities.
It is important to note that with respect to OD 4.20, the IPS of the
Guarani Aquifer Project was not formulated to mitigate actual or potential
negative aspects of other project activities, but rather the IPS
constitutes one of the main mechanisms of the project for the effective
- 4 -



and informed participation of indigenous peoples. The principal indigenous
peoples organizations will be specifically consulted during the project
period, and specific recommendations on how to best incorporate indigenous
peoples as stakeholders will be included in the SAP so as to ensure their
adequate inclusion in the management of the Guarani Aquifer System.
International Waterways: The Safeguard Policy for Projects on
International Waterways (OP 7.50) seeks to identify activities within a
transboundary water body in one country which could affect another
country. In the case of this project, the four riparian countries sharing
the Guarani Aquifer are represented on the Project Steering Committee and
have collectively submitted this project proposal. Therefore, while the
policy applies, separate notification of any one country is not necessary.
Involuntary Resettlement: Due to the nature of the project (with no
infrastructure investments), no involuntary resettlement will take place.
Such wells as may be included within the project will be entirely for
research purposes, and the drilling sites will be chosen so as to ensure
that no resettlement is needed.
Disputed Areas: There are no disputed areas in the project region.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
No adverse cumulative impacts are expected.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Due to the very extensive project area, there will be a wide variety of
future activities, but those linked to the project are all expected to
have positive environmental and social impacts. The benefits to be
expected from the project are of both a national and global nature, and
mainly relate to the avoidance of future costs. Groundwater pollution is
extremely costly and difficult to remediate. By putting in place a
preventive mechanism, damage, and, thus, clean-up costs, can be avoided. A
further benefit would be the preservation of a strategic reserve to
supplement other water supply options within the region. This benefit is
transboundary in that the preservation and rational use of the Guarani
Aquifer System will preserve a multi-national natural resource for future
generations, of apparently 'unlimited' quantity and high quality.
Groundwater overdrafting effects are also extremely difficult to
remediate. Implementing water management specific schemes as a preventive
mechanism is very cost effective. It will contribute to preserve the
Guarani Aquifer System as a strategic reserve, its benefits are of
transboundary nature, helping preserve and rationalizing water
abstractions from the Guarani Aquifer System. Although its actual capacity
is currently unknown, the studies supported by this project will form the
basis for establishing the capacity of the Guarani Aquifer System and
rationally planning its future potential uses on a sustainable basis.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Preliminary investigations suggest that, in the absence of the proposed
project, the countries are not taking, or planning to take, any specific
- 5 -



actions with regard preservation of the Guarani Aquifer System.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Organization of American States will be the Executing Agency for the
project, on behalf of the four countries. All proposed project
activitities, including any related to environmental or social, concerns,
will be drivent by a Project Steering Committee (CSDP: Consejo Superior de
Direccion del Proyecto. The Project Steering Committee will be comprised
of four members from each country. These will be representatives of the
respective national agencies with responsibility for foreign affairs,
water resources, and environment.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The formulation of the proposal for the Environmental Protection and
Sustainable Development of the Integrated Management of the Guarani
Aquifer System, including its proposed GEF components, has involved
extensive and broad-based participation by representatives of the
municipal/departmental, state/provincial, and national/federal
governments, academic and research institutions, private sector
representatives and non-governmental organizations. The participation
process was facilitated by a series of consultative workshops, conducted
in Foz do IguaOu (Brazil) during January 2000, Santa Fe (Argentina) during
July 2000, Asunci6n (Paraguay) during November 2000, Montevideo (Uruguay)
during March and April 2001, Asunci6n during May 2001, and Salto (Uruguay)
during May 2001. In addition, a number of focus group sessions were held
to solicit sector input from NGOs, in Garopaba and Caxambu (Brazil) during
November 2000, and in Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil) during May 2001; from the
private sector, in Brasilia (Brazil) during March 2001 and Florian6polis
during May 2001; from the indigenous peoples' groups in Brazil during May
2001 and in Paraguay during June 2001. Approximately 200 persons
representing more than 100 institutions, government agencies, and NGOs,
participated in the public meetings and provided inputs in drafting this
proposal, many of which are expected to participate in the implementation
of the project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 6 -



Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Karin Erika Kemper      12/3/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:       George Ledec    12/4/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:        Juan Quintero   12/4/01
Sector Manager/Director:        John Redwood    12/21/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 11, 2002\I068121.txt
January 7, 2002 10:55 AM
-7-



