Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23490-LAC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GLOEIAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.8 MILLION
(US$13.40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO ARGEITINA, BRAZIL, PARAGUAY, AND URUGUAY
FOR THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GIJARANI
AQUIFER SYSTEM PROJECT
May 17, 2002
Brazil Country Management Urit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean IRegion



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = US$
FISCAL YEAR
2003 -- 2007
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABAS                Brazilian Groundwater Association
ABRH                Brazilian Water Resources Association
BNWPP               Bank Netherlands Water Partnership Program
BGR                 Bundesanstalt fuer Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe, "German Geological Survey"
CC                  Coordination Group - Coordinaci6n Colegiada
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy (World Bank)
CETESB              Technology and Environmental Sanitation Company
CORPOSANA           National Corporation for Water Supply and Sanitation (Paraguay)
CSDP                Guarani Project Steering Committee
CSO                 Civil Society Organizations
DINAMIGE            National Directorate for Mining and Geology (Uruguay)
DNH                 National Hydrographical Directorate (Uruguay)
EMBRAPA             Brazilian Corporation for Agro-Pastoral Research (Brazil)
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
GIS                 Geographic Information System
IA                  GEF Implementing Agency
IAEA                International Atomic Energy Agency
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/ The World Bank
INA                 National Institute for Water (Argentina)
IW                  GEF Intemational Waters Program
IAEA                Intemational Atomic Energy Agency
IWRN                Inter-American Water Resources Network
MERCOSUR            Southern Common Market [Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay]
MMA                 Ministry of Environment (Brazil)
NPEU                National Project Executing Unit
NGO                 Nongovernmental organization
OAS                 General Secretariat of the Organization of American States
OP                  Operational Program
OSE                 National Sanitation Service (Uruguay)
PDF/B               Project Development Facility, Block B
REA                 Regional Environmental Assessment
SAP                 Strategic Action Program
SG                  General Secretariat for the Project
SEAIN               Secretariat for Intemational Affairs (Brazil)
SENASA              National Sanitation Service (Paraguay)
SRH                 Secretariat for Water Resources (Brazil)
TDA                 Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Karin Erika Kemper



LATIN AMERICA
ENVIRONMENTAL PRtOTECTION AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
GUARANI AQUIFER SYSTEM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicabrs                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 11
2. Key policy and institutional refonns supported by the project                      14
3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         16
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Sunmary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           20
2. Financial                                                                          21
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      24
6. Social                                                                             26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 28



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  29
2. Critical risks                                                                   30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   31
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         31
2. Other                                                                            32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       55
Annex 4: Incremental Costs                                                             56
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             63
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     64
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          87
Annex 11: Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation                        95
Annex 12: Indigenous Peoples Strategy                                                  98
Annex 13: Root Cause Analysis                                                         103
Annex 14: Strategic Action Program                                                    108
Annex 15: Public Involvement Plan Summary                                             111
Annex 16: GEF STAP Technical Review                                                   117
Annex 17: Development of Management and Mitigation Measures within Identified "Hot Spots"  125
Annex 18: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                   132
MAP(S)
IBRD 31623



LATIN AMERICA
Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer System Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSES
Date: May 17,2002                                  Team Leader: Karin Erika Kemper
Country Manager/Director: Vinod Thomas             Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P068121                                 Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s): Environment; Water
Focal Area: I - International Waters                Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 ] Loan     [ I Credit    PC] Grant     [ 1 Guarantee     1 1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 0
Financing Plan (US$m):     Sourcip                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                               7.46            4.64         12.10
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILIIY                                      1.30           12.10         13.40
LOCAL: BENEFICIARIES                                             0.51            0.75           1.26
Total:                                                           9.27           17.49         26.76
Borrower/Reciplent: MULTI-COUNTRY PROJECT ARG-BRA-PAR-URU
Republic of Argentina - Federative Republic of Brazil - Republic of Paraguay - Oriental Republic of
Uruguay
Responsible agency:
ARGENTINA
Address: Ministerio de Infraestructura y Vivienda, Subsecretaria de Recursos Hidricos de la Naci6n, Hip6lito Yrigoyen
250, piso 11, Of. 1128, C1086AAB Buenos Aires, Argentina
Contact Person: Victor Pochat, Director Nacional
Tel: +54-11-4349 7401/02            Fax: 54-11-4349 7454             Email: vpochat@rniv.gov.ar
BRAZIL
Agencia Nacional de Aguas - ANA - Sztor Policial Sul, Area 5, Quadra 3, Bloco L, 1 andar - Brasilia, Brazil - Contact
Person: Jerson Kelman, Diretor-Presidente. Tel: 55-61-445 5441, Fax: +55-61-445-5427, Email: kelman(ana.gov.br
PARAGUAY
Direcci6n General de Proteccion y Coruervacion de Recursos Hidricos - Secretaria del Ambiente (SEAM), Avenida
Madame Lynch 3500, Asunci6n, Paraguay - Contact Person: Celso Velazquez - Director Nacional
Tel: +595-21-615811, Fax: +595-21-615814; Email: vcelso@telesurf.com.py
URUGUAY
Ministerio de Transportes y Obras Puiblicas, Direcci6n Nacional de Hidrografila, Rinc6n 575 20 P., Montevideo 11000,
Uruguay. Contact Person: Luis Enrique Loureiro, Director Nacional
Tel: +598-2-916 4783/84, Fax: +598-2-916 4667, Email: dnh@uyweb.com.uy
Other Agency(ies):
PROJECT EXECUTING AGENCY: Secretariat of the Organization of American States
Address: 17th & Constitution Ave, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006



Contact Person: Jorge Rucks, Chief Division II, Unit for Sustainable Development and Environment
Tel: 202458 3862            Fax: 202458 3560             Email: jrucks@oas.org
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUSSm):
FY         2003       2004      ;2005      2                             =
Annual      1.61      4.02       4.64      3.13
Cumulative     1.61       5.63     10.27      13.40
Project Implementation period: 4 years
, PM F~ M. Sbe,                                  2 
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objecdve: (see Annex 1)
The long-term objective is the sustainable, integrated management and use of the Guarani Aquifer System.
The Guarani Aquifer System is; situated in the eastern and south central portions of South America, and
underlies parts of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. This project is a first step toward achieving
the long-term objective. It is to support the four countries in jointly elaborating and implementing a
common institutional and techlical framework for managing and preserving the Guarani Aquifer System
for current and future generations. To provide such support, seven project components are envisaged: (i)
expansion and consolidation of the current scientific and technical knowledge base regarding the Guarani
Aquifer System; (ii) joint development and implementation of a Guarani Aquifer System Management
Framework, based upon an agreed Strategic Program of Action; (iii) enhancement of public and
stakeholder participation, social communication and environmental education; (iv) evaluation and
monitoring of the project and dissemination of project results; (v) development of regionally-appropriate
groundwater management and mitigation measures in identified "Hot Spots"; (vi) consideration of the
potential to utilize the Guarani Aquifer System's "clean" geothermal energy; and, (vii) project, coordination
and management. These are elaborated in Annex 2.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal performance indicator against which the Project will be measured is the existence of an
overall Guarani Aquifer Systenm Management Framework (Strategic Action Program), including technical,
scientific, institutional, financial, and legal aspects, for the sustainable management and protection of the
Guarani Aquifer System in the four countries. Key performance indicators with regard to this overall
framework will include process indicators, stress reduction indicators, and environmental status indicators:
Process Indicators
*   the existence of a multi-country agreement on the institutional and technical framework for the
management of the Guarani Aquifer System;
*   the existence of a Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis, identifying the primary threats to the structure,
flmction, and sustainable use of the Guarani Aquifer System, including the location of areas under
current threat and in need of immediate attention (i.e., "hot spots");
*   the existence of a Strategic Action Program for the sustainable management of the aquifer, including
programs for:
*    the operation and maintenance of the data acquisition and monitoring system;
L    the implzmentation and sustainable operation of the legal-institutional framework
once suc:h a framework is approved and adopted by the countries;
*    investments in pollution prevention and mitigation measures;
*    investments in geothermal energy use;
*    support tD the resolution or mitigation of existing and potential conflicts;
* the existence of a consensus proposal for a joint legal framework for the management of the Guarani
Aquifer System;
* the existence of a functioning monitoring network.
Stress Reduction Indicators
*      an operational communications campaign, with a defined percentage of the target population
reached;
-3-



*      identified and quantified water quality threats and their evolution;
*      existence of norms for well design, construction and maintenance at a regional scale, taking into
account sub-regional variations;
*      identified and documented pollution mitigation and groundwater depletion together with
management measures implemented and monitored in specific "hot spots".
Environmental Status Indicators
*      agreed goals, criteria and standards for the transboundary diagnostic analysis and sustainable
management of the Guarani Aquifer System, including quantitative and qualitative indicators upon
which priority actions can be identified and implemented,
*      defined westem and southem boundaries of the aquifer system, as well as defined recharge and
discharge areas, surgence zones as well as vulnerable areas, including those with higher degrees of
environmental risk;
*      completed conceptual and mathematical models of the aquifer system, including its water quality,
quantity, and hydrodynamic behavior;
*      implementation of an up-to-date, functioning Information System, shared among the four countries,
as a mechanism for transboundary information-dissemination, decision-maling support, and
management of the Guarani Aquifer System.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:     Date of latest CAS discussion:
Argentina CAS    20354-AR                             09/08/00
Brazil CAS       20160-BR                             03/06/00
Paraguay CAS     16346-PA                             03/06/97
Uruguay CAS      20355-UR                             05/05/00
Water resources management issues are prominent in the four Country Assistance Strategies (CASs). For
each country, the water sub-sectors (water supply and sanitation, irrigation, etc.) are recognized as being
sustainable in the long run only if the resource base itself is managed sustainably. The World Bank and
respective governments recognize this, within an appropriate context for each country, through the
respective CASs. This project, through its catalytic effect, will incorporate groundwater issues into the
water resources management agendas of the four countries, including specific steps with regards to the
Guarani Aquifer System. The integration of the proposed project into the CAS objectives for each country
is highlighted below.
Argentina CAS: One of the main development challenges within Argentina is water resources management
Serious water quality problems are emerging due to aquifer "mining" and vertical contamination of water
tables that could have economic consequences within the next 15 to 25 years. The CAS gives special
attention to water resources management and envisages future support that will focus initially on
institutional capacity building, including development of tradable water rights with incentives for efficient
and sustainable water use, and a watershed approach to the integrated management of water, soils, and
cultivation. The CAS also specifically states that the World Bank will continue to seek opportunities to
expand the use of GEF grants as a complement to national programs and stimulate innovation with respect
to global water resources issues. In a recent Water Resources Sector Study, groundwater was identified as
one of the critical water resource issues in Argentina. The Guarani Project would contribute to capacity
-4 -



building in the fields of both groundwater management and sustainable management of water resources in
the country, as envisaged in the CAS.
Brazil CAS: The World Bank would continue its strong involvement in water resources management. This
involvement aims to support ongoing development of the legal and institutional framework for efficient,
integrated, and decentralized water resources management in Brazil. In this context, however, groundwater
has generally been neglected. The proposed project, in addition to addressing an important aquifer system
(providing water for domestic and industrial purposes to more than 500 municipalities in eight states), is
expected to contribute to the integration of groundwater management issues into Brazil's overall water
resources agenda of Brazil and to enhance an integrated water resources management and protection vision.
Paraguay CAS: The World Bank has agreed to prepare a Natural Resources and Environmental
Managernent Strategy for Paraguay in order to increase the likelihood of sustainable economic growth.
This Strategy will assist in defining priority environmental pollution problems, and suggest possible
policies for reducing pollution from the industrial, transportation, and water and sanitation sectors. It also
will reassess priorities for natural resources management and prioritize future assistance for environmental
management Such actions will definitely strengthen the rather weak water management scenario that
prevails, where groundwater p]ays a low-key role. In addition, the Government has expressed an interest in
preparing a GEF country program to enhance capacity building within the water resources sector, with an
emphasis on groundwater and natural resources management.
Uruguay CAS: The CAS identifies a number of local and global environmental issues on the policy agenda.
Inadequate natural resource management could jeopardize the otherwise promising performance within the
livestock and agricultural sectors. Poor water resources management is widespread, leading to inefficient
water use and increased pressure on water resources. There are water quality problems in some
sub-sectors. For these reasons, water resources management is a priority of the Government The CAS
identifies water resources management as a cross-cutting theme, extending across the agricultural and
livestock sectors, the marine fisheries sector, and the tourism sector, particularly in the coastal zone. The
Guarani Aquifer System underlies about 25% of Uruguay and constitutes about 40% of the country's
groundwater resources. It is of' importance to the different water-using sectors identified in the CAS. The
on-going Uruguay water resources sector study complements the proposed project which would contribute
to groundwater conservation in Uruguay.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The Guarani Aquifer System is a strategic water resource within the MERCOSUR region. It can be
preserved if adequately protected and managed. The main threats to the resource stem from uncontrolled
abstraction, and pollution in the extraction and recharge areas. Given that groundwater recharge is
restricted, and that groundwater pollution is reversible only at very high cost, if at all, there is considerable
merit in protecting the Guarani Aquifer System for current and future generations.
The Guarani Aquifer System is a clear example of an international (transfronterizo) waterbody threatened
by environmental degradation through over use and pollution, as defined and included in the GEF
Operational Program Number 8. In the absence of a strategic intervention, supported by the GEF, the
likelihood of "business-as-usual" prevailing in the four countries is high. At the aquifer's current rate of
use, and considering the growing use of groundwater for human consumption, it is easy to foresee an
increasing threat of pollution and depletion in the not too distant future. Uncontrolled use, without rules or
regulation, can alter the status of the Guarani Aquifer System from that of a strategic reserve of drinking
water to that of a degraded waterbody that is the source of conflict among the countries. If nothing is done,
the future of the Guarani Aquiifer System, could, at least in certain areas, be the same as that of other
shallow aquifers that have tended to become both polluted and over-exploited.
- 5 -



The global benefit of the proposed project is in terms of the preservation of this transboundary resource for
current and future generations. In the specific case of the Guarani Aquifer System, there is the opportunity
to exploit the advantages of preventive activity. The project would ensure that, in the face of increasing
scarcity and pollution of surface water sources in the beneficiary countries, this resource is managed today
so as to be available as a strategic reserve when needed in the future. An important issue to be considered
in this regard is the fact that an international legal framework for the management of transboundary
groundwater resources currently does not exist. Annex 13 sets forth a consideration of the potential root
causes of the issues facing the Guarani Aquifer System, based on information gathered during project
formulation. This latter assessment will be refined through the development of a Tmnsboundary Diagnostic
Analysis under Component II of the proposed project (see Annex 14 for a description of the GEF process).
It should also be noted that the World Bank, for example, does not have a specific policy on groundwater
resources. This issue is being addressed in the ongoing evaluation of the World Bank Water Resources
Policy Paper of 1993. It is generally recognized that transboundary groundwater issues need to be
addressed, as projects are often proposed and implemented in areas where a situation of scarcity and
competition for groundwater resources already exists (e.g., in North Africa and the Middle East). In the
case of the Guarani Aquifer System of South America, the World Bank, through the GEF, could make a
significant contribution to shaping an institutional framework regarding transboundary groundwaters that
could serve as a replicable model in other countries and regions. In addition, the experience derived from
this project would be expected to contribute to GEF and World Bank policy with regard to transboundary
groundwater issues.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Characteristcs of the Guarani Aquifer System
The importance of groundwater, especially of large, deep aquifers, stems mainly from the fact that these
resources constitute a strategic reserve for water supply. Such groundwaters rarely need to be treated prior
to consumption. Natural biogeochemical filtering processes within the aquifers generally achieve a quality
far beyond that which could be obtained, in technical or economic terms, by the available water treatment
methods applied to waters withdrawn from rivers, lakes, or impoundments. Groundwater is frequently the
most viable water supply alternative, especially where surface waters are polluted by domestic and
industrial effluents, solid waste, or contaminated agricultural runoff. Consequently, sustainable use,
development and recharge, and diligent conservation, consistent with the protection of the aquifers from
pollution, should be important concems.
The Guarani Aquifer System, named in honor of the Guarani Indigenous Nation, is one of the largest
groundwater reservoirs in the world. It is located under the four ERCOSUR countries: Argentina, Brazil,
Paraguay and Uruguay. Until recently, the Guarani Aquifer System was known as the Botucatu Aquifer in
Brazil, the Tacuaremb6 Aquifer in Uruguay and Argentina, and the Misiones Aquifer in Paraguay.
The Guarani Aquifer System extends from the central-west region of Brazil into Paraguay and the
southeastern and southern regions of Brazil, and into northeastern Argentina and central and western
Uruguay (see area map). It has an estimated total surface area of approximately 1.2 million square
kilometers (839,800 km2 in Brazil, 225,500 kmr in Argentina, 71,700 km2 in Paraguay, and 45,000 krn in
Uruguay). The portion within Brazil encompasses about two-thirds of the total areal extent of the System,
and includes parts of eight Brazilian states-an area equal to that of England, France and Spain combined.
An estimated fifteen milhon people live within the aquifer's area of surface influence.
-6 -



About 40,000 kmr of freshwater are contained within the Guarani Aquifer System. About 90% of this
volume is estimated to be potable, although, locally, potability can be reduced due to salinity and elevated
fluoride content (affecting less than 10% of the volume). The volume of water in the system is equivalent to
the total volume of water conveyed by the Parana River over a period of almost 20 years (based upon a
median flow rate of 10,000 In/sec). It is estimated that the aquifer could meet the water demands of 360
million people on a sustainable, basis, based on a per capita water use of 300 liters/day. Only about 10% of
the total freshwater reserves would be depleted after a period of 100 years. Current usage, from deep wells,
sustains a per unit rate of absiraction of up to I million liters/hour. The Guarani Aquifer System has an
average thickness of 250 meters varying from lenses of a few meters at the borders of the groundwater
basin to about 600 m in its central parts, such as in the northern parts of the States of Sao Paulo, ParanA
and the southern parts of Mato Grosso do Sul in Brazil. Its depth below the land surface varies from zero
in outcropping areas and their ricinity to more than 1,000 meters in Argentina.
Besides the excellent quality of the water (which is very suitable for consumption) another important
characteristic of the Guarani Aquifer is the thermal quality of the waters. In a number of regions, the water
emerges naturally at temperatures of between 33 and 50 degrees Celsius, at a flow rate of about 100,000
liters/hour. At present, this water is used principally for water supply and tourism, although it could
potentially be exploited as an alternative energy source, substituting for non-renewable energy sources in
the project area.
Despite large surface water r.serves, the drinking water supply in this heavily populated region of the
MERCOSUR is increasingly cLependent on groundwater. Future problems may occur if groundwater use is
not managed in a sustainable manner or if the groundwater becomes polluted. In Sao Paulo State, Brazil,
more than 60%/o of the water supply needs in urban centers are served totally or partially from groundwater
sources, supplying a population of about 5.5 million people. Demands for groundwater are increasing, due
to both demographic growth and economic expansion, and as a consequence of the pollution of surface
water sources (although goveraments are also increasingly tackling surface water pollution).
Legal and regulatory mechanisms for the management of groundwater resources are lacking throughout the
MERCOSUR region. Both in Argentina and Brazil, for instance, significant pollution of shallow
groundwater resources is occurring.
Water Quantity Aspects
The use of the Guarani Aquifer System's water has increased significantly in the last decades, as a
consequence of the extreme urbanization pattem of some areas on one hand and developments in large scale
agriculture schemes on the other. In some areas of the aquifer system there is a high concentration of wells
whose water is used for different purposes. Maps produced based on the assessments undertaken during
project preparation show the spatial distribution of water uses (77% urban household use, 1 1.5% industrial
use and 11.5% agricultural use), as well as maps with location of wells and their respective depths.
Some of the conflicts related to water quantity are already well identified. These include, among others, the
reduction of potentiometric and phreatic levels, and the interference between wells experienced in the highly
urbanized areas around Ribeirao Preto and Bauru, in Sao Paulo State (Brazil) and the transboundary
thermal sites between Urugtuay and Argentina, particularly in the area of Salto (Uruguay) and Concordia
(Argentina).
Preliminary studies carried out during project preparation estimated that water abstractions in the Brazilian
-7 -



states of Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo and Parana - if not managed - will surpass the aquifer's local recharge
rates by 2025. Some regions in Argentina and Paraguay, where the aquifer's potential has only recently
been discovered, are now undergoing groundwater exploitation with an increasing number of wells being
drilled. The actual number of wells tapping the aquifer system in those regions is still unknown. It is
important to keep in mind that due to the anticipatory character of the present project, data on the aquifer
system are scarce. One of the major activities will be to collect and analyze data for the Guarani Aquifer
System.
Water Quality Aspects
As in the MERCOSUR region in general, in most areas of the aquifer system, the countries' legal
franeworks for managing and monitoring groundwater use have not accompanied the rates of extraction
and expansion of groundwater use. The lack of control over the quality design of the wells seems to have
caused wells to have acted in some cases as drainage channels for surface contamination.
In regions of the aquifer system where water quality monitoring data are being collected systematically (like
in CETESB's well-functioning monitoring network in Sao Paulo State), some cases of organic
contamination (high nitrate content) and anomalous pesticide traces have been detected. This is also
assumed to be occurring in other regions of the aquifer, particularly in recharge areas showing high natural
vulnerability, and in semi-confined areas which show an effective connection with underlying unconfined
and contaminated aquifers.
The Hot Spot area of Santana do Livramento - Rivera, at the Brazil/Uruguay border, is a case in point,
with one of the largest urban concentrations in the southern aquifer system's outcropping area (around
200.000 inhabitants), and with a water supply system that relies almost entirely on groundwater extracted
from about 160 tube wells with depths between 40 m and 160 m. Here, the aquifer faces the threats of
lacking sanitation infrastructure (60% of the population served by inadequate sanitation schemes - septic
tanks and drains), industrial plants, and an increasing use of pesticides and fertilizers in agriculture.
A similar situation applies to the Eastern Paraguay region, a vulnerable non-confined area that is
experiencing booming urban and agricultural expansion. Particularly in this region the stratigraphy of the
aquifer formations is not very well defined, which makes the task of determining managerial needs and
actions even more challenging.
In Ribeirao Preto, Brazil, a city with 421,000 inhabitants mainly using Guarani aquifer waters, 12% of
water users do not have access to the sewerage system, generating a potential nitrate load of 200,000 tons
per year, which is considered rather elevated. A comprehensive and detailed survey about the
groundwater's chemistry, considering regional potential contaminants is one of the main tasks of
Component 1 of the project. It will be a guide for further activities such as the-set up of a water quality
monitoring network and advanced hydrochemical research.
As a transboundary aquifer with thermal qualities, the Guarani Aquifer System touches upon three sectoral
areas; namely, sustainable water management (of groundwater in particular), transboundary water
management, and energy use. These areas are elaborated below.
Sustainable (Ground)water Management: In the four countries overlying the Guarani Aquifer System,
water sector issues include: institutional arrangements for integrated water resources management, and
investments in water infrastructure and sustainable management of that infrastructure. An important issue
in all four countries is water pollution. With respect to groundwater, this issue translates into a package of
topics related to: (i) the recognition of groundwater as a resource in need of far more attention than it has
- 8 -



been given to date; (ii) integration of groundwater management concerns into overall water resources
legislation (which tends to focus on surface water); (iii) assessment of groundwater availability (related to
quantification and modeling of the resource, including availability and demand scenarios); and (iv)
groundwater protection measures (zoning, water rights, well design, construction, extraction and pollution
controls). Overall, these issues have not been adequately addressed in any of the countries, although the
govemments are now moving oward completing assessments.
Transboundary Waters: The beneficiary countries have long-standing experience in collaborating on
transboundary water issues, most notably with regard to the Plata River basin which has had a general
treaty and an Intergovemmenmal Committee since the 1960s. In addition, bilateral projects and specific
treaties exist with respect to other water systems, such as the Uruguay River (Uruguay and Argentina), and
the Parana River (Brazil and Paraguay). To date, the success of these agreements has been mixed,
especially with respect to hydrological allocation and pollution control issues. The countries do recognize,
however, the importance of cooperation in transboundary waters issues. The attempt to reach an agreement
on groundwater is a historical first and will certainly enhance the dialogue on other waterbodies within the
region and may contribute to inproved water management at a transboundary level. Among other things, a
new La Plata initiative is developing, with potential GEF financing.
Energy Use: In the context oF this project, aspects related to energy use are of relevance. First, the four
countries use different types of resources to satisfy their energy needs, ranging from hydropower to
petroleum and gas. With increasing economic growth in the Region, energy demands are rising, too, leading
the countries - to varying degrees - to look for more efficiency in the use of their current sources and also
for substitutes. This is especially the case for heavily hydropower-dependent Brazil, which is currently
passing through an energy crisis due to drought and increased energy demands. Concurrently, all four
countries are signatories of the Kyoto Protocol for Global Warming, and, as such, have made commitments
to look for alternative, "clean" energy sources. In this context, a careful assessment of the potential for the
use of the Guarani Aquifer System waters for low-enthalpy energy may provide altematives to fossil-fuel
based energy sources, and opportunities for local energy savings for industry, irrigation, and/or domestic
hot water supply.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The available reference documents, including those prepared during the project preparation phase and
summarizing the available knowledge on the Guarani Aquifer System, are listed in Annex 8. The
importance of, and current kcnowledge about, the Guarani Aquifer System in the four countries is
summarized in Table 1, which shows that actions in one country may affect the other countries. For
example, uncontrolled drilling and extraction in one country, combined with pollution, may affect not only
that country but also its neighLbors. Therefore each country needs to jointly participate in the sustainable
management of the resource to preserve its own share for the future.
-9-



Table 1: Current Knowledge and Importance of the Guarani Aquifer System
in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay
Characteristic      Argentina             Brazil           Paraguay        Uruguay
Approximate                     2                                     2       2
Extent of the Aquifer  225,500 kim         839,800 km         71,700 km      45,000 km
(19.1 %)             (71%i)             (6.1%)         (3.8%/)
Percent of                 6                   10                18             25.3
Territory Occupied         6
Characteristics of the Supply source  Recharge and         Recharge and   Recharge and
Aquifer                              supply area           supply area    supply area
Extent of          9 deep wells for  300 to 500 cities partially  About 200 wells, 135 wells for
Exploitation       thermal use       or entirely supplied by the mainly for  public water
Aquifer System (70% of  domestic water  supply, 7 of which
household use); industrial supply    are for thermal
uses (25%), irrigation and           usea
recreational uses (5%)
Principal          1. Potentially    1. Point and          1. Point and    1. Point and
Environmental      uncontrolled drilling nonpoint source   nonpoint source  nonpoint source
Issues             and extraction    pollution             pollution      pollution
2. Subject to     2. Uncontrolled       2. Uncontrolled  2. Uncontrolled
pollution from other drilling and       drilling and   drilling and
countries         extraction            extraction     extraction
3. Subject to pollution  3. Subject to  3. Subject to
from other countries  pollution from  pollution from
other countries  other countries
Level of           Limited information Considerable information  Limited   Considerable
Information        available, especially available but dispersed in information  information
about the westem  different states and  available      available
extent of the    institutions
Guarani Aquifer
System
Sustainable (Ground)water Management: The general sector issue affecting all four countries is the
current lack of a management and administrative mechanism governing groundwater in the region.
Recommendations for controlling drilling, extraction, and pollution would be an outcome of this project.
Sub-sectoral issues relate to water supply, industry, and tourism, as well as environmental management
within recharge areas. To manage these issues, both over-utilization and pollution of groundwater will need
to be addressed.
The extent of available technical infonnation, legal instruments, and institutional planning is very uneven
within the four countries. Brazil is the only country that has legislation relating to the sustainable use of
water resources, including groundwater. However, the legal basis is still relatively fragile and needs to be
further developed together with improving law enforcement. Uruguay is operating under its 1979 Water
Code, which does not include an economic value for water. In Argentina, the federal Constitution explicitly
reserves ownership of natural resources within their jurisdictions to the provinces. The Argentine
institutional framework, therefore, distributes responsibilities and decision-making authorities at different
levels, creating significant overlaps between provincial authorities. In Paraguay, the situation is similar,
although some attempts are being made by the Ministry of Planning to improve the coordination and
-10-



regulatory framework for water resources management Thus, not only must the sectoral issues be
addressed in terms of the lack of a transboundary framework for groundwater management, but also
jurisdictional issues must be clamified with respect to transboundary groundwaters in Brazil and Argentina.
In addition, groundwater management arrangements at the national and subnational level must be
addressed.
This project is expected to contribute to better groundwater management by raising awareness regarding
groundwater issues, building local capacity for groundwater management, and strengthening national
legislation for groundwater management. In the case of Brazil, a specific outcome of the project
preparation activities has been the creation, during June 2000, of the Permanent Technical Committee for
Groundwater (Cdmara Tecnica Permanente de Aguas Subterraneas) within the National Water Resources
Council. Subsequently, the Council adopted a resolution establishing guidelines for the inclusion of
groundwater within Brazil's Integrated Water Resources Management System. As a complement, the
Brazilian Government launched a National Groundwater Program in early 2001. In Argentina, as a specific
outcome of project preparation, the National Government created the Interministeral Committee for
Groundwaters, to help improve integrated water management In the case of Uruguay, the Government
issued a decree controlling the drilling of wells in the Guarani Aquifer System area, providing a basis for
management activities once the proposed project is underway. These actions show both the commitments of
the countries to integrate groundtwater into their overall water resources legislation, and the impact that this
high-profile project is having on an otherwise largely neglected resource.
Transboundary Waters: The proposed project should be viewed not only within the context of the
previously mentioned agreements on surface water resources, but also with regard to their future. Early
actions to address issues such as pollution, communication, conflict management, and water allocation,
among others, are priorities in the context of the Guarani Aquifer System. These preventive actions will
take advantage of the joint water resources agreements and treaties that currently exist, while adding the
groundwater perspective. A coasequent light but effective, joint management framework will provide a
basis for enhancing transboundary collaboration between the countries concerned.
Energy: The project will consider the thermal characteristics of the waters of the Guarani Aquifer System.
Based upon current informatior, the thermal waters are located within pockets in some localities. Current
indications are that these thermdl waters are unlikely to provide significant energy generating potential due
to their relatively low temperature (less than 50 degrees Celsius). However, a variety of other uses may be
possible, ranging from district heating and provision of warm tap water, to thermal tourism (already highly
important in northwestern Uruguay), to industrial uses. The proposed project will review alternatives for
the use of thermal waters as a "clean" energy source, and, depending on the outcome of these
investigations, will identify opportunities to modify local energy use and policies so as to substitute for the
use of fossil fuels.
C. Project Description S,ummary
1. Project components (see Amex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project is comprised of six components, supported by an administrative component. GEF: US $ 13.40
million; co-funding: US $ 13.36 million; total: US $ 26.76 million.
- 11 -



COMPONENT I: Expansion and Consolidation of the Current Scientific and Technical Knowledge
Base on the Guarani Aquifer System
Component I develops a sound scientific and technical basis for the determination of the priority
transboundary issues and associated strategic remedial actions for the protection of the Guarani Aquifer
System. It is essential for the determination of an appropriate joint management framework. GEF: US $
4.57 million; co-funding: US $ 5.34 million; total: US $ 9.91 million.
COMPONENT II: Joint Development and Implementation of the Guarani Aquifer System
Management Framework
Component II is the core of the project and provides for an agreed technical, institutional, financial, and
legal framework for management of the Guarani Aquifer System. Component II includes (i) harmonization
and enhancement of data gathering networks, (ii) creation of a data management system serving the
Guarani Aquifer System, (iii) development of joint institutional arrangements for the management of the
Guarani Aquifer System, and (iv) formulation of strategic actions leading to the integration and
optimization of development initiatives and proposals within the Guarani Aquifer System region. GEF: US
$ 3.49 million; co-funding: US $ 3.52 million; total: US $ 7.01 million.
COMPONENT HI: Public and Stakeholder Participation, Education and Communication
Component m provides for the practical involvement of stakeholders in decision-making affecting the
Guarani Aquifer System through both formal and informal educational and informational programming. A
Guarani Aquifer System Citizens' Fund designed to provide cost-sharing funding to NGOs and academic
institutions is an integral feature of this Component GEF: US $ 0.77 million; co-funding: US $ 0.54
million; total: US $ 1.31 million.
COMPONENT IV: Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Dissemination of Project Results
Component IV consists of: (i) tracking evolvement of agreed indicators, including GEF-IW process, stress
reduction, and environmental status indicators - comprised of goals, criteria, and standards, and
implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system to oversee and evaluate Project progress in
addressing and achieving said goals; and (ii) dissemination of project results within and outside of the
Guarani Aquifer System region, including the implementation of measures for consultation and
coordination between GEF-IW project managers working in the Latin American region (See Annex 18).
GEF: US $ 0.26 million; co-funding: US $ 0.22 milion; total US $ 0.48 million.
COMPONENT V: Development of Management and Mitigation Measures within Identified "Hot
Spots"
Component V develops practical mechanisms and measures for the mitigation of current priority problems
in four Hot Spots: (i) two identified transboundary localities within the Guarani Aquifer System area;
(Argentina/Uruguay and Uruguay/Brazil); (ii) one recharge/discharge area of the Guarani Aquifer System
(Paraguay); and (iii) a heavily urbanized area of the Guarani Aquifer System (Brazil), supporting ongoing
mitigation and protection measures being undertaken by the Govemment of Brazil and State of Sao Paulo.
The objective of Component V is to develop and test effective means and costs of quantifying, analyzing,
managing, and remediating the impacts of known threats affecting specific, representative areas within the
Guarani Aquifer System region (See Annex 17 for detailed description). GEF: US $ 2.31 million;
co-funding: US $ 1.42 million; total US $ 3.73 million.
COMPONENT VI: Assessment of Geothermal Energy Potential
Component VI explores potential future geothermal energy uses of the Guarani Aquifer System. The
objective of Component VI is to quantify and determine the potential value of the Guarani Aquifer System
as a source of "clean" geothermal energy, and to communicate this assessment and appropriate guidelines
- 12 -



with respect to sustainable development and utilization of any potential geothermal energy output of the
Guarani Aquifer System to the respective stakeholders, including the energy minustries within the Guarani
Aquifer System region. GEF: US $ 0.20 million; co-funding: US $ 0.08 million; total US $ 0.28 million.
COMPONENT VII: Project Coordination and Management
Component VII supports project management and coordination. Component VII comprises the activities to
be carried out by the Guarani Secretariat and the operational activities of the coordinating and executing
units in the respective countries, as described in Section E.4. GEF: US $ 1.80 million; co-funding: US $
2.24 million; total US $ 4.04 million.
Table 2: Guarani Project costs and financing sources
.nolmceive  .       Bank,    %        GEF
Component              Sector       'Coeib    % of   financirg  Bank  financing  GEF
(u_s_. S Total_   (USSM)  financig  (USSM) 'financing
1) Expansion of the                           9.91     37.0    0.00      0.0     4.57    34.1
Knowledge Base
2) Development of a Joint                      7.01    26.2    0.00       0.0    3.49    26.0
Management Framework
3) Public and Stakeholder                      1.31     4.9    0.00       0.0    0.77     5.7
Participation
4) Monitoring, Evaluation                      0.48      1.8   0.00       0.0    0.26      1.9
and Dissemination
5) Development of                              3.73    13.9    0.00       0.0    2.31     17.2
Management and Mitigation
Measures in Hot Spots
6) Assessment of Geothermal                    0.28     1.0    0.0o       0.0    0.20      1.5
Energy Potentials
7) Project Coordination and                    4.04     15.1   0.00       0.0     1.80    13.4
Management
Total Project Costs                  26.76    100.0    0.00      0.0    13.40   100.0
0.00      0.0   0.00       0.0     0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                  26.76    100.0    0.00      0.0    13.40   100.0
Detailed Counterpartiand ailler            -Comonen ts (US$MI1ion) -
Co.fidancl Sbuirces  -        1 i  .2       3    *i4       5      6      77  Total
Counterpart financing provided by the  4.87  3.40   0.49   0.22    1.01  0.08    1.92  11.99
governments of the four participating
countries                                      _                        _
Co-financing provided by the IAEA*    0.30                   -             -            0.30
Co-financing provided by the BGI**     0.14   0.05                0.41                  0.60
Co-financing provided by the World Bank  0.03  0.07                 -                   0.1
Netherlands Water Partnership                                                      _
Co-financing provided by the OAS                                                 0.32   0.32
Co-financing provided by Beneficiaries               0.05            -     -            0.05
Total Co-financing                    5.34   3.52   0.54   0.22    1.42  0.08   2.24   13.36
Co-flnanlng by the IAEA Idcludes $300,000 In a first phase of two years, wIth another $300,000 envisaged for a second phase.
Co.finandng by the BGR has been colnfirmed. FInalization of thls contibuton depends on agreement between the GOP and BGR.
- 13 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms specifically sought with regard to the Guarani Aquifer System are:
(i) recognition of the Guarani Aquifer System as a valuable transboundary resource; and (ii) creation of a
framework for the shared management of the Guarani Aquifer System, including joint institutional-legal
arrangements and data sharing. The proposed project would contribute to advancing policies relating to
transboundary groundwaters in the four countries, especially with respect to a transboundary legal and
institutional framework that is currently lacking, and national groundwater institutional and legal
frameworks that are rather disparate or missing. Specifically, the project will elaborate a Strategic Action
Program encompassing, inter alia, a specific management and institutional framework for the Guarani
Aquifer System. This framework could be expected to influence legislation regarding groundwater
resources at the national level - and will eventually influence provincial or state levels, where applicable -
within the participating countries and give impetus to improved groundwater management generally. In
developing the institutional framework the particular characteristics of the four countries' political
organization will be taken into account.
3. Benefits and target population:
About 15 million people live in the Guarani Aquifer System region. While not all of these are supplied with
Guarani Aquifer waters, increasing numbers of users can be anticipated to utilize this resource as a result
of population growth and increased industrial consumption. This trend will be enhanced as a result of the
increasing pollution of surface waters, which - even if the countries are maling efforts to remediate the
situation - makes water from the Guarani Aquifer System more attractive. Therefore, target beneficiaries
are the current and future populations within the Guarani Aquifer System region in the four countries.
In the long term, the expected benefits include: (i) a sustainable supply of safe water for human
populations; (ii) high-quality water for industry; (iii) a sustainable supply of thermal water for tourism,
industrial, and municipal uses; and (iv) reduced conflict potential due to the use of Guarani Aquifer System
waters in transboundary areas.
In the short and medium terms, beneficiaries also are the individuals and institutions who are active in the
management of the Guarani Aquifer System. Through training and educational programs their capacity to
contribute to the sustainable management of the Guarani Aquifer System will be greatly enhanced. The
project is designed to intemalize the experience generated by the project into the know-how of the four
countries.
Global benefits to be derived from the improved management of the Guarani Aquifer System relate to the
integrated management and use of this transboundary resource in a sustainable manner. Without this
GEF-financed project, it is highly likely that the countries would not take measures at this stage to protect
the transboundary water resources of the Guarani Aquifer System. Use of water resources at the national
and sub-national levels would most likely continue until a crisis arises, at which point the reversal of
negative effects would be difficult and costly. Actions taken jointly at this stage by all four countries will
provide a basis for considerable global (transboundary) benefit through effective pollution and overdrafting
controls, especially in recharge and abstraction areas, and improved land management, including, for
instance, erosion control. In this regard, the development of specific, land use-related management and
mitigation measures (through the targeted pilot demonstration projects), contributing to both global benefits
and specific target groups, forms an important output of this project.
The primary goal of the project is to reach a four-country joint management framework for the Guarani
Aquifer System and achievement of this objective will create the most benefits. At the same time there are
- 14 -



significant benefits to be realize,d by the project also through all other project components. These benefits
will be valid with or without a four-country agreement and they will relate to the strengthening and
involvement of subnational entities, including state/provincial agencies, water supply utilities, academia
and NGOs in project implementation. Their involvement will ensure that aquifer management can take
place in a decentralized and sustainable manner once the project is concluded. This specifically includes the
Provinces in Argentina, which have the legal responsibility for water resources management, and the States
in Brazil.
Specifically, Components 1, 3, 5 and 6 will create immediate benefits in this regard and their outputs can
be used by the countries, their subnational entities and stakeholders in national and transboundary
groundwater management, independently of the formalized agreement. This is of particular importance
because a formalized agreemnet is depending on the sovereign legislative processes in each country and
cannot readily be programmed to coincide with project completion. In this context it will be important,
however, to make the Strategic; Action Program realistic and feasible in order to go forward even in the
event that formalization of the joint management framework should take time to materialize.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Given the multinational character of the proposed project, institutional and implementation arrangements
were discussed in detail during project preparation. Since the project is intended to bring about significant
institutional change (from the current lack of coordinated management of the Guarani Aquifer System to its
sustainable long-term management), the future institutional arrangements to be developed as a component
of this project are an essential element that will determine its long-term success. All the proposed activities
will be driven by a Project Steeling Committee (CSDP: Consejo Superior de Direccion del Proyecto), with
coordination of the technical aspects of the project being provided by a Coordinating Council (CC:
Coordinacion Colegiada). The day-to-day activities of the Project will be managed by the General
Secretariat (SG: Secretaria General del Proyecto Sistema Acuifero Guarani) under the direction of the
OAS, with oversight from the CC. Activities within each country will be carried out by country-based
project executing units (NPEU- National Project Executing Unit - Unidad Nacionalpara la Ejecucion del
Proyecto), the heads of which (the four National Technical Coordinators, one from each country) will form
the CC. Details are elaborated in Section E4 and Annex 11.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives consid,ered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives considered were: (i) to do nothing (laissez-faire), or (ii) to carry out the project in only
one or two countries. Alternative (i) was rejected due to the fact that the Guarani Aquifer System is clearly
showing signs of initial stress. 'Thus, by taking preventive measures now, negative effects on groundwater
quality and quantity can be mitigated and, perhaps, largely avoided. Given that groundwater pollution is
very expensive and in some cases almost impossible to reverse, this opportunity to prevent damage to the
aquifer obviates the do nothing alternative. By completing a relatively low-cost preventive project,
embodied within a Strategic Action Program, the longer-term costs can be minimized in an effective
manner. Similarly, groundwater overdrafting severely endangers any aquifer's sustainability, may reduce
its capacities, affect present uses and restrain future developments as well. Again, a low-cost preventive
water management framework within the SAP, may prove to be crucial in solving or mitigating such
problems. Likewise, Alternative (ii) was rejected because of the transboundary nature of the waterbody,
which, by definition, implies that degradation of the resource in one country will have an impact on the
other riparian countries. Agreerments to preserve this type of waterbody need to be mutual and mutually
enforced. Work within one or tNvo countries to create a management system for the Guarani Aquifer System
was therefore deemed to be sub:)ptimal.
- 15 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.     Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
. (Bank-flnanced proJects only)
ImplementaUon  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Irrigation                        Uruguay Loan 3697: Irrigation     S             S
and Natural Resources Project
Water Supply, Sanitation and Water  Brazil Loan 3505 (Parani):      S             S
Resources Management              Water Quality and Pollution
Control
Natural Resources Management      Paraguay Loan 3708: Natural       S             S
Resource Management I
Water Supply and Sanitation       Paraguay Loans 4222 and           S             S
4223: 4th Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation
Natural Resources Management      Paraguay - Mbaracayu
Biodiversity (under preparation
- no ratings available yet)
Natural Resources Management      Brazil Loan 4060: Rural           S             S
Poverty - Parana Land
Management
Natural Resources Management      Brazil Loan 3160: Land            S             S
Management II - Santa
Catarina
Natural Resources Management      Brazil Loan 4148: Natural         S             S
Resources Management
Water Supply and Sanitation       Uruguary Loan 4556:               S             S
OSE-Modernization and System
Rehabilitation
Other development agencies
Intemational Water Resources      Implementation of the Strategic
Management                        Action Program for the Bermejo
River Binational Basin
(Argentina and Bolivia),
GEF/OAS/UNEP
International Water Resources     Implementation of Integrated
Management                        Watershed Management
Practices for the Pantanal and
Upper Paraguay River Basin,
GEF/0AS/UNEP
Transboundary Aquifer Research    UNESCO
Project (includes Guarani Aquifer)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Project incorporates lessens learned in two strategic ways: first, by using experience gained in the
water and related sectors within each of the four countries, and, second, by using the lessons learned by the
World Bank and OAS with regard to GEF International Waters Projects.
National experience in the countries. Good institutional policies are essential to good water resources
management, be they surface or ground waters. Experience in Brazil, particularly in recent years, has
illustrated that policy dialogue is especially fruitful in the context of the preparation of specific projects
(e.g., the Pollution Control Projects in Minas Gerais, Paran;a and Sao Paulo, which have led to significant
institutional change in each State; in Ceara where PROURB was a major catalyst in the implementation of
the State's Water Resources Law; and in PROAGUA, which uses a two-track approach of demonstration
projects and institutional change). Notwithstanding, groundwater has been largely neglected in all four
countries, in spite of its overriding importance for water supply, especially in Uruguay and in certain
regions of Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay. In Paraguay, the World Bank-financed 4th Water and
Sanitation Project relies exchlsively on groundwater. In this sense, the Guarani Project can have, and
already has had, a catalytic eflect on groundwater management in the countries in general. In this context,
ongoing projects in the region and the furtherance of the sectoral dialogue on (ground)water resources
management will be taken into consideration.
GEF International Waters I'rojects. A number of issues relating to GEF International Waters Projects
were highlighted at two recent events: the World Bank stakeholder consultation held during June 2000, and
the GEF International Waters Conference held during October 2000. The latter event included the then
three GEF Implementing Agenacies (lAs: the World Bank, United Nations Development Programme, and
United Nations Environment Programme) as well as project staff and policy makers fromrt around the world.
The messages emerging from these events underlined the need for commitment from the countries and local
demand for the project, both of which exist with respect to the proposed project. In addition, it was deemed
essential that other agencies (niultilateral and donors), having a stake or on-going projects in the region, be
involved. In the case of the Guarani Project:
& the General Secretariat of the Organization of American States (OAS), which has been active as
Executing Agency for UNEP-implemented GEF International Waters Projects, including projects on
the Bermejo, Upper Paragaay, and San Juan River Basins, served as the executing agency for the
preparation of this project as will serve as the executing agency for its implementation;
*  the United Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco), under the auspices of
their Transboundary Aquifer Project, participated in Guarani workshops during the project formulation
period,
* the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which has previously been active in all of the four
countries, will contribute tD the geohydrological aspects of the Guarani Project at the invitation of the
participating countries; and,
*  the German Government, which has provided long-standing support to groundwater research in the
Paraguayan Chaco and, recently, also in the Zona Oriental, has confirmed the provision of technical
and institutional development assistance to the Paraguayan portion of the project through the German
Geological Survey (Bundesanstaltfuer Geowissenschaflen und Rohstoffe).
An important aspect of project design is the multilateral agreement on the institutional framework for the
conduct of the transbounclary waterbody project and Strategic Action Program formulation.
Communication among the different parties is essential, and the project coordination units in each country
(UNPPs: Unidades Nacionales de Preparaci6n del Proyecto), created during project preparation, are
proposed to be continued as a mechanism by which stakeholders from governments, subnational-level
- 17 -



governments, and civil society (including NGOs and universities) will participate in the project. A number
of workshops at both the national and regional level are included as a means of bringing together the actors
from the four countries. The regional level meetings will be facilitated by the Project Steering Committee
(CSDP: Consejo Superior de Direccidn del Proyecto). Use will be made of World Bank multi-country
video facilities, as a practical means of bringing stakeholders to the table without incurring high transaction
and financial costs of international travel. The hitherto positive experience in this regard is reflected in the
design of the institutional arrangements for project implementation.
GEF experience shows that reliance on heavy administrative structures for the management of GEF
International Waters Projects is not necessary, and may even be counterproductive due to the elevated
recurrent cost. In elaborating the institutional framework for the management of the project, institutional
arrangements have been designed to be as pragmatic and light as possible. To this end, the day-to-day
execution of the project will be undertaken by a small but effective Guarani Aquifer System Secretariat,
which will serve as the executive element of the CSDP and coordinate the activities carried out by the
National Project Executing Units.
The project also includes a number of pilot projects in identified Hot Spots. Experience in other World
Bank projects has shown that such projects, to serve their purpose, need good baseline data and
well-designed monitoring and evaluation. Complementary components to accommodate this need have
been designed.
Finally, GEF experience has indicated that a significant lag time may occur between the preparation of the
Strategic Action Program (SAP) and its implementation. For this reason, this project has been designed as
the first phase of a larger Program for the Protection and Sustainable Management of the Guarani Aquifer
System. Therefore, the elaboration of projects to implement the SAP will take place during the last year of
the proposed project. Such projects may be financed from a variety of sources, including national
governments, the World Bank, other multilateral banks, donors and the private sector.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Annex 15 provides a list of the stakeholders that participated in the preparation of this project. Their
participation is summarized below. In addition, Letters of Endorsement of the project were acquired from
the designated GEF country-based Focal Points.
National level. At the national level the project has received strong support from governmental institutions
that have actively participated in project preparation activities and workshops. The Secretariat of Water
Resources (SRH), Brazilian Ministry of Environment, sponsored, with its own resources, the meeting held
in Foz do Iguacu (Brazil), where the Guarani Project was first identified and discussed with the different
partners as a project concept for GEF support. Subsequently, the Secretariat of Water Resources of
Argentina, the National Hydrographic Directorate of Uruguay, and the Ministry of Energy and Mining and
the Ministry of Public Works of Paraguay as well as the recently-created Paraguayan Secretariat of
Environment have sponsored project workshops in Santa F6 (Argentina), Asunci6n (Paraguay), and Salto
(Uruguay), respectively. Staff from all four countries have participated in project preparation activities. All
four governments have created and staffed their respective project preparation units using local financial
resources. Representation of the national governments in official meetings has been strong, including
representation at the secretarial and ministerial levels. The preparation of the project, using PDF/B funds,
received the full endorsement of the GEF focal points in all four countries during 2000, and during March
2001 with respect to complementary PDF/B funding. - In addition the four Ministries of Foreign Affairs
have reached an agreement to elaborate a first joint document indicating the countries' agreement with the
- 18 -



objectives of the project and developing some first basic principles for collaboration regarding the Guarani
Aquifer System.
Subnatlonallnon-govermmental llevel. At the subnational and/or non-governmental levels, the project has
received support from state governments in Brazil and provincial governments in Argentina (e.g., the State
of Sao Paulo, the State of Parana, and the Province of Santa Fe). Strong support and full collaboration also
has been forthcoming from the universities in the region (e.g., Universidad Nacional del Litoral and
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina; Universidade Federal do Parana, Brazil; Universidad Nacional de
Asunci6n, Paraguay; and Universidad de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay). Similarly, the project has
been supported by a number of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that have been actively involved in
the project preparation activities (e.g., Brazilian Groundwater Association - ABAS, Brazilian Water
Resources Association - ABRH, among others). Information-sharing, collaboration, and involvement by
large numbers of stakeholders (which have often exceeded all expectations) have generated many quality
interventions and suggestions which have contributed to project preparation. Social interest and support for
the project was equally high, a3 demonstrated by the large number of articles published in national
magazines, newspapers and on-line within the region, and number of special television reports. The high
level of interest of stakeholders al the local level provides positive evidence of the commitment of the four
govemments at national and local levels. Awareness by all of the govermments that transaction costs of this
project are relatively high has not been a major obstacle to project preparation.
Supranational leveL Both MERCOSUR-the Southem Common Market-through its Subgroup 6
(Environment), and the OAS, have supported project preparation. The MERCOSUR had been
contemplated as the Executing Agency for the project. One of the reasons why this option was rejected was
due to the fact that the MERCOSUR at this point does not have a legal personality, which would permit it
to receive grant resources.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The World Bank has operations and long-standing policy dialogues regarding different aspects of water
management in each of the four countries. A large number of water projects have been implemented with
World Bank support in the region. In Brazil, the Bank has conducted an extensive review of the water
resources, irrigation, and water supply and sanitation sectors, leading to the development of an integrated
water supply and water resources management strategy for its operations in Brazil. Jointly with the
Govemrnment of Argentina, the W'orld Bank has recently completed a comprehensive review of the water
sector, and the final report of -this study is being disseminated. During 2001, the World Bank was
conducting a similar comprehensive review of the water sector together with the Government of Uruguay.
The combination of the sectoral Inowledge of the World Bank and its experience in financing projects in
the region is particularly supportive of this project.
The recent First Biennial GEF International Waters Conference, held in Budapest (Hungary) between
October 14-18, 2000, demonstrated the World Bank to be a leading agency in implementing GEF
International Waters Projects. Considerable in-house expertise and internationally-based knowledge of the
main issues relating to such initiatives has been developed. Currently, the Bank is involved in the
implementation and/or preparation of some twenty-three GEF International Waters Projects in Latin
America, Europe, Africa, South East Asia, and the Middle East. In addition, the World Bank is involved in
fifteen other, related GEF projects dealing with coastal and marine issues, and nine aquatic biodiversity
projects, having Intemational Waters aspects.
-19-



Global support to the Project is essential due to the nature of transboundary waterbodies. The Guarani
Aquifer System is unique in the world due to its size, good water quality, and thermal energy potential. It
therefore constitutes an important strategic transboundary reserve in the region. Nevertheless, without
global support for this project, short-tern needs may supersede the strategic, integrated management of the
resource, and the countries might decide to continue unilateral exploitation of the resource. To address this
concern, GEF support, in this case, should focus primarily on the development and implementation of
mechanisms and an institutional firamework to prevent over-exploitation and degradation of this
transboundary resource-the preventive focus of this project is unique within the GEF International Waters
Program. In addition, this project would be the first groundwater project supported by the World Bank and
GEF, further contributing to the global importance of this initiative.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
The economic evaluation methodology is the GEF incremental cost analysis. Although a number of baseline
activities touch upon the proposed project, the incremental costs are substantial. Project investment will
generate and bring together new data of interest to all four countries, and would put in place a joint
institutional arrangement for aquifer management that would otherwise not exist. Thus, baseline
investment is limited to some monitoring activities currently in place in Brazil and Uruguay, and nonpoint
source pollution control activities and the implementation of groundwater legislation in Brazil.
The benefits to be expected from the project are of both a national and global nature, and mainly relate to
the avoidance of future costs. Groundwater pollution is extremely costly and difficult to remediate. By
putting in place a preventive mechanism, damage, and, thus, clean-up costs, can be avoided. A further
benefit would be the preservation of a strategic reserve to supplement other water supply options within the
region. This benefit is transboundary in that the preservation and rational use of the Guarani Aquifer
System will preserve a multi-national natural resource for future generations, of apparently 'unlimited'
quantity and high quality. Groundwater overdrafting effects are also extremely difficult to remediate.
Implementing water management specific schemes as a preventive mechanism is very cost effective. It will
contribute to preserve the Guarani Aquifer System as a strategic reserve, with its benefits being of
transboundary nature, helping preserve and rationalizing water abstractions from the Guarani Aquifer
System. Although its actual capacity is currently unknown, the studies supported by this project will form
the basis for establishing the capacity of the Guarani Aquifer System and rationally planning its future
potential uses on a sustainable basis. Preliminary investigations suggest that, in the absence of the proposed
project, the countries are not taking, or planning to take, any specific actions with regard to preservation of
the Guarani Aquifer System in its transboundary dimension.
All four countries currently benefit from its use. All four countries use its waters for human consumption.
More than 300 cities use the Guarani Aquifer waters for domestic supply (Table 1). In this regard, the
Uruguayan Water and Sanitation Agency (OSE) estimates, for example, that it is cheaper to pump clean
Guarani Aquifer water from significant depths than to abstract and treat contaminated water from surface
sources. It can be expected that if other sources become more polluted, the Guarani Aquifer System will
increasingly become the economically viable source of choice. Likewise, all four countries make limited use
of its waters for agricultural irrigation purposes. Uruguay also uses its thermal waters for tourism, and
Argentina has recently started using its waters for the samne purpose. As these uses intensify, conflicts are
- 20 -



likely to result in the absence of an agreed transboundary water management framework. For example, the
Uruguayan authorities have already expressed concern that the availability of thermal waters on the
Uruguayan side may have been ieduced since the opening of the Argentina thernal site. Most of the
possible associated benefits, which might ultimately be found to be substantial, are considered to be
incremental for the four countries, liven the current state of knowledge of the Guarani Aquifer System.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
An imnportant financial issue to be addressed is the sustainability of project intervention. While the project
will have very limited infrastructure investments, a monitoring system and database will be designed and
implemented. To be of use in the monitoring and management of the Guarani Aquifer System, the
monitoring and management systems will have to be adequately maintained. In addition, it is anticipated
that a long-term coordinating mechanism, such as the proposed General Secretariat of the project, would be
sustained. The recurrent cost of such a structure would have to be financed in a sustainable manner. To this
end, Component I, Creation of a Joint Management Framework for the Guarani Aquifer System, includes
a specific activity aimed at the definition of a sustainable financing mechanism for the long-term
management of the Guarani Aquifer System, including consideration of water and concession fees. At the
same time, given that the Guarani Aquifer System is mainly confined and that well drilling is very costly,
long-term monitoring (transaction) costs will be far lower than would be the case for a surface water
system of the same extension. The expected financial burden on the countries is therefore expected to be
manageable.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is. estimated as the cash contribution of the four countries to the project
minus taxes. The total counterpart contributions by the countries to the project are estimated to be about
US $ 11.99 million, as both cash and in-kind contributions. Of these, US $ 2.14 million are taxes foregone
(since the OAS has been exempted from tax by the countries), leaving a total fiscal impact of UJS $ 9.86
milhion, including in-kind contributions, which are financed by the countries.
3. Technical:
(see Annex 16: GEF STAP Review)
On the scientific and technical front, the activities and tasks selected are designed to generate that
information regarded as essential to underpin effective groundwater management and to guide sustainable
resource development and aquifer protection requirements. It must be recognized that sonme of this
information is more efficiently aoquired at local scale through pilot sub-projects (Component V), whilst
other parts have to be generated at sub-regional (aquifer) scale (Component I). It will be essential to
achieve a careful balance and close coordination between these two components. In addition, Component I
is relatively large, containing numerous, closely-linked sub-components and tasks. These will require
integrated planning and sensitive supervision by the General Secretariat to ensure on-time completion of the
main deliverables of these Components - key hydrogeological information and the numerical models of the
Guarani Aquifer System - needed V0 formulate the Strategic Action Program and Management Framework.
It is also important to recognize that groundwater investigations and development best proceed as a phased
and iterative process, and that c]ose monitoring of aquifer response to water-supply development is
normally the most cost-effective way of reducing uncertainty in numerical modeling of aquifers and
groundwater resource estimation. Therefore, Components I and V are deliberately phased to allow an
element of re-focusing and prioritization, in the light of the results generated during the first 18 to 24
months, at the time of the project rmid-term review.
- 21 -



4. Institutional:
A four-country, transboundary project has high transaction costs, and an appropriate mechanism for
implementation is required. The project will utilize a similar management mechanism to that employed
during project preparation. For project preparation, one national project coordination unit (UNPP) was
created in each country, supported by eight State-level units (UEPPs) in the case of Brazil. These Units
functioned as technical entities. Overall policy-level decision-naking was through the Steering Committee
(CSPP), comprised of representatives of the respective national agencies with responsibility for water
resources, foreign affairs, and environment, as well as representatives of the Organization of American
States (OAS) and the World Bank. During the project preparation phase, the four countries indicated the
OAS as the executing agency for the project, due to the multi-country character of the project. The OAS
supported the project from its Washington Headquarters, through its country-based offices, as well as
through contracted staff, including a Project Coordinator (Secretario General) and two technical staff,
funded with GEF project preparation funds. The Govemment of Uruguay placed offices in Montevideo at
the disposition of the project
Since these arrangements worked well for project preparation, few changes will be made during project
implementation. As shown in the diagram below, the Project Steering Committee (CSDP: Consejo
Superior de Direccion del Proyecto) is anticipated to have overall charge of the project, supported by a
Coordination Group (CC: Coordinacion Colegiada) comprised of the four National Technical
Coordinators appointed to head the four country-based Project Executing Units (NPEU) - Unidad
Nacional para la Ejecucion del Proyecto). This Coordination Group would provide oversight and direction
to the Project Coordinator (Secretario General) and General Secretariat (SG) staff, who would serve as
liaison on a day-to-day basis between the NPEUs, the OAS and the World Bank. The General Secretariat
will be based in Montevideo.
A further institutional issue is the development of an operational institutional and legal framework for
Guarani Aquifer System management. An operational institutional framework will be an output of the
project. An appropriate process to arrive at a commonly agreed technical proposal for such a framework
will be part of the Project Implementation Plan. Partners and countries are aware, however, that the final
framework to be proposed would need to be light in order to be efficient and sustainable in the long run.
! 22  l......- I
_            _     _             ,.~~2 



4.1 Executing agencies:
The OAS will be the Executing Agency for the project and will act on behalf of the four countries. The
OAS will be responsible to the World Bank (as Inplementing Agency) and GEF to ensure that applicable
rules and procedures are adhered to. In addition, the OAS will - with prior agreement by the CSDP -
contract the Project Coordinator (Secretario General), the technical support team of three professionals, a
procurement specialist and an office manager to staff the General Secretariat, and provide general
administrative oversight.
In addition to the OAS, national (local) executing agencies have been confirmed in each of the four
countries. The national executing agencies for the project will be the Subsecretariat for Water Resources in
Argentina, the National Water Agency in Brazil, the Secretariat for Environment in Paraguay, and the
National Directorate for Hydrography in Uruguay. These local executing agencies will assist the National
Technical Coordinators in the conduct of the project activities, and assist the NPEUs through provision of
office space and support services tc, the extent that these are required. Such support is considered within the
counterpart contributions to the project. Representatives of the local executing agencies will also serve on
the CSDP as indicated below.
4.2 Project management:
All the proposed activities will be driven by a Project Steering Committee (CSDP: Consejo Superior de
Direccion del Proyecto). The Project Steering Committee will be comprised of three members from each
country. These will be representatives of the respective national agencies with responsibility for foreign
affairs, water resources, and environment. The four National Coordinators will participate ex ojficio in the
meetings of the CSDP. In addition, one representative each of the World Bank and OAS may be invited to
participate in meetings of the CSDP. The other GEF Implementing Agencies, and participating donor
countries and agencies, will be informed of, and may participate in, meetings of the Project Steering
Committee in an ex officio capacity. The Project Steering Committee will meet at least two times per year;
the Committee rnay make use of the World Bank video-conferencing facilities for additional meetings as
may be necessary. The Project Stee,ring Committee will have a rotational chairnanship (presidencia). The
first chairmanship will be held by dte delegation of Paraguay.
The technical program of the proiect will be supervised by a Coordination Group (CC: Coordinacion
Colegiada) comprised of the four National Technical Coordinators appointed by their countries' Project
Executing Agencies to head the four country-based NPEUs. This Coordination Group will provide
oversight and technical direction, as agreed by the CSDP and through the work plans elaborated in the
project operational program, to the Project Coordinator (Secretario General) and General Secretariat (SG)
staff, who will serve as liaison on a day-to-day basis between the NPEUs and the OAS and the World
Bank.
A General Secretariat of the Guarani Aquifer System Project, comprised of the General Secretary,
technical staff members, their support staff, and the OAS, will manage the day-to-day operations of the
project, as agreed by the CC and elaborated in the project operational program. The General Secretary and
Secretariat staff will be contracted by the OAS and will coordinate the conduct of project activities through
the NPEUs. The Secretariat will endeavor to ensure the technical quality of the project, prepare project
documents and reports, and support the monitoring, evaluation and reporting requirements of the World
Bank. The Secretariat will also be responsible for drafting the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis and the
Strategic Action Program, with inputs from the NPEUs and project consultants. Further, the General
Secretariat will facilitate the flow of information and inputs from stakeholders with respect to the project at
the regional level. In particular, the Guarani Secretariat will ensure that adequate attention is given to the
- 23 -



views and concerns of indigenous community organizations and other CSOs active at the regional level. In
addition, utilizing the IWRN and related mechanisms, the General Secretariat will participate in regional
communication and coordination opportunities among GEF-IW projects and programs being executed
within the Latin American region.
Within each of the participating countries, a National Project Executing Unit (NPEU) will be established
by each country according to country priorities and rules. The national Technical Coordinator for each
country will manage the activities of the project executing units in each country. These units will be
responsible for recommending short-listed nominees for consultancies and the conduct of the project
activities to the OAS. In addition, during project execution, the NPEUs will provide general oversight and
assistance to the consultants so as to facilitate timely completion of project activities and the necessary
degree of quality control/quality assurance with respect to the conduct of project tasks. The NPEUs will
also facilitate the flow of infornation and inputs from stakeholders with respect to the project at the
national and subnational levels. In particular, the NPEUs will ensure that adequate attention is given to the
views and concerns of indigenous community organizations and other CSOs active at the national and
subnational levels as envisioned in Component m of the project.
At its first meeting, the Project Steering Committee will adopt operating procedures for the conduct of its
business. The Project Steering Committee will agree administrative and reporting procedures consistent
with World Bank standards and operating procedures as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Finally, the Project Steering Committee, at its inaugural meeting, shall conduct any other such business as
may be required to initiate project Components, and set a date for the second meeting of the Project
Steering Committee. Subsequent meetings of the Project Steering Committee shall be scheduled by the
Project Steering Committee but shall be held at least every six months during the project period.
Activities of national personnel, with the support of the national executing agencies, will be based upon
preparatory work and Terns of Reference agreed with and approved by the Project Steering Committee,
and consistent with the bidding and other procurement practices of the World Bank. The General Secretary
and OAS will coordinate field activities, as directed by the Project Steering Committee and supported by
the
General Secretariat. All project activities will be conducted within the Guarani Aquifer System area.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment has been carried out by a World Bank Procurement Specialist, with
satisfactory findings, and approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor. Details regarding procurement
arrangements are described in Annex 6. The full assessment is included in the list of project documents on
file.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment has been carried out by a World Bank Financial Management Officer,
with satisfactory findings, and approved by a Regional Financial Management Specialist. Details
regarding disbursement arrangements are described in Annex 6. The full assessment is included in the list
of project documents on file.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This is an environmental project. Its objective is to ensure the sustainable management of the extensive
Guarani Aquifer System. The project seeks to prevent the environmental damage, linked to groundwater
-24-



pollution and depletion, that woldd otherwise come about because of poor knowledge and lack of policy
coordination between the four countries (and their local governments) which share the aquifer. In addition to
improving planning and policy formulation, the project supports specific environmental protection measures,
including: (i) improved control of water pollution (from point and nonpoint sources); and (ii) designation of
critical groundwater recharge areas requiring conservation or other special management. Although some
future uses of the water resources of the Guarani Aquifer System might involve adverse environmental
impacts, the project would study these potential impacts and promote plans and policies to adequately control
them. The project is expected to be highly positive from an environmental standpoint
The project itself will not include any infrastructure investments. It may take advantage of some wells to be
constructed by private or public utilities for other purposes. However, the location of any such wells to be
used for project scientific purposes would be chosen in the context of promoting the environmentally
sustainable use of the aquifer.
Likewise, Component VI is designed to assess the potential economic uses of the thermal waters of the
Guarani Aquifer System. Depending upon the results of this assessment, concepts for future utilization of
these thermal waters may be designed. The potential post-project development of thermal water resources
might require mitigation of possible adverse environmental effects related to access road construction,
thermal and chemical discharges, and noise. Additional measures to protect specialized aquatic biodiversity
in thermal springs or pools may be: required. Any needed or recommended environmental mitigation measures
for potential future thermal water development will be identified through the environmental assessment (to be
carried out in parallel with the other pre-feasibility studies), an integral part of Component VI.
Key stakeholders-the national and sub-national governments in the four countries, the population in the
Guarani Aquifer System region, local communities, NGOs, and academic institutions interested in
sustainable groundwater use in the region-have been, and continue to be, involved in the project design and
institutional arrangements for project implementation (see Section 6). Provision is made within the project
management process to continue to engage key stakeholders in the SAP formulation process.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Environmental Analysis of this project is incorporated within the PAD.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: not applicable - see Section 5.1
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Key stakeholders include: the national and sub-national governments of the four countries, the population in
the Guarani Aquifer System region, farmers (from the perspective of the generation of nonpoint source
pollution from agrochemicals), industries (from the perspective of the generation of point source pollution),
water supply companies, local cornmunities, environmental NGOs, and academic institutions interested in
groundwater management and research. These stakeholders were, and will continue to be, involved in the
project through the appropriate design of institutional arrangements for project implementation.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Component I of the project is designed to strengthen and harmonize the monitoring and information systems
for the Guarani Aquifer System, including the creation of a shared data network between the fowu countries.
The project itself is not expected to have an impact on the aquifer system, rather it is designed to provide
- 25 -



the monitoring capacity (in technical, social and human resources terms) with which to assess the possible
impacts of other activities on the environment In addition, Component IV of the project is designed to
provide for the monitoring and evaluation of project progress, and disseminate the results of the project.
With regard to the management and mitigation projects to be completed under Component V, the measures
developed and implemented will have the objective of improving the management within specific,
vulnerable local and sub-regional areas within the aquifer system. These measures will initiate a process of
mitigating negative impacts from land use activities and industrial pollution. It will be important to monitor
their effectiveness in order to determine if the measures developed and implemented are feasible and
cost-effective, and worthy of dissemination more widely throughout the region. Monitoring systems, and
appropriate indicators, to be developed under Components I, II, IV and V will contribute to this assessment
activity.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The primary aim of the project is to develop a sustainable management framework for the Guarani Aquifer
System, given its inportance as a water source for current and future generations. The social development
outcome consists of preserving the natural resource base, rather than encouraging its immediate
exploitation and use. Complementary interventions to improve soil and water utilization and management in
its recharge areas, for example, will have relevance to the social development objective of benefiting local
populations through these interventions. For these pilot projects, social assessments would be carried out as
part of their preparation. Further, Component m is designed to provide a practical mechanism to develop,
disseminate, and deliver appropriate informational programming to youth and communities to facilitate
social communication, public participation and sustainable involvement in this project
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders in the project are the national govermments and sub-national entities in the four countries,
universities, and local communities (especially in the pilot project areas). In terms of the institutional
framework for project implementation, it will be important to ensure that key stakeholders have a voice.
The conduct of frequent workshops is seen as an important means of bringing the different stakeholders
together. Governments, through their relevant ministries and agencies, will continue to be represented on
the Project Steering Committee and local executing agencies, while nongovernmental organizations and
individuals will be integrated into the project through participation in the NPEUs and possible citizen
advisory committees at national levels. (see point 6.3).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Academic institutions and NGOs are involved in the project through their respective national coordinating
units. Since they constitute a self-selected group of stakeholders, a number of workshops are proposed to
be organized to bring together NGOs that are active in the water/environment nexus in the four countries.
During project preparation, NGOs from the four countries were invited to an NGO-organized water event
in Caxambui, Brazil, in order to receive information about the project and provide input to the project
preparation process. The NGOs participating in this meeting were requested also to identify other NGOs
that might be interested in the project This was followed up by a specific consultancy to identify key civil
society stakeholders, as part of the project development activities. The stakeholder participation plan is
appended hereto as Annex 15.
For Project implementation, provision has been made to engage key national stakeholders according to the
structures of the respective NPEUs in order to receive specific input from the private sector, and to
- 26 -



encourage and facilitate participation by, inter alia, indigenous community organizations. In addition, the
inclusion of a special, small grants fund (Guarani Citizens' Fund) to support small projects related to the
Guarani Aquifer, to be implemented by NGOs, is included within Component Im. Important activities in
this regard would be community-based public education and awareness campaigns.
Key universities form an important nongovernmental constituency within the Guarani Aquifer System
region. The project concept initially was identified within the four countries by academic institutions. Due
to their extensive research experience, these organizations are anticipated to continue providing vital
knowledge about the aquifer. It is anticipated that the components related to the expansion of the knowledge
base, development of monitoring systems, and capacity building activities will strongly involve the
academic community. The participation of the academic comrnunity in these portions of the project is
critical to ensure the sustainability of the project in the longer term, through their role in providing trained
professionals to communities and the regulatory agencies within the region. Therefore it is expected that
key universities, as well as other academic and research institutions that have carried out investigations on
the Guarani Aquifer System, wi[l continue to be involved in the project during implementation (see also
Annex 2, Component 2 d) for information about the Capacity Building Fund currently under development).
Indigenous communities were specifically considered during project preparation following their expressed
wish to be informed and incorporated into the project. An Indigenous Peoples Strategy has been specifically
designed into Component Em to both inform indigenous groups in the Guarani Aquifer System region and
seek appropriate mechanisms to best incorporate their voice and views into the project. Since the project
does not include any investments, it would not have any physical impacts on indigenous communities.
However, as a stakeholder group with an interest in the preservation of the Guarani Aquifer System, the
project intends to ensure their adequate representation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The implementation arrangements for the project include regular meetings of the project Steering
Committee. These meetings are intended to provide the Governments, World Bank and other co-financiers
with information on the progress of the project, and to provide them with the opportunity to modify project
activities to best accomplish the overall project goals. As noted, one of these goals is community
empowerment through appropriate informational programming, as embodied in Component in.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfornance in tenns of social development outcomes?
Component IV is designed to p:rovide information on project progress and success in achieving project
outcomes through the regular and ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the project. The key performance
indicaators include an operational communications campaign designed to facilitate public involvement in
the management of the Guarani A.quifer System.
6.6 Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements
Given the decentralized nature of project activities, adequate monitoring will be essential for effective
project implementation. A comprehensive Operational Monitoring and Evaluation System (OM&E) will be
established to ensure effective su)ervision of activities, as well as assessment of the outcomes and possible
impact of project interventions. This includes the development and tracking of GEF IW indicators (process,
stress reduction, and environmental status). Operation of the system will be coordinated by a special area at
the central level within the Guarani Secretariat that would undertake responsibility for overall project
- 27 -



M&E. This area will work in close coordination with the NPEUs and other implementing agencies for data
recording and project monitoring at the local level. A computerized management information system (MIS)
will be set in place to provide the necessary technical support for efficient data recording and information
processing and sharing, including counterpart contributions by the four governments.
The MIS will encompass not only the informational support for the operational aspects of project
implementation but would also provide links with the project GIS and aquifer monitoring systems, so that
the information generated by those systems will be readily available to all parties involved. From an
operational point of view, the structure of the MIS will cover three different areas: programming and
administration; physical and financial monitoring; and performance evaluation. The OM&E system will
enable tracking of inputs and outputs from project activities, as well as their outcomes. This will be
accomplished based on the use of a set of indicators, belonging to two main groups: process and
performance indicators. The quantitative and temporal elements of process indicators will allow the
Secretariat in coordination with the NPEUs to prepare annual operation plans, and control adequate and
timely completion of activities and delivery of project products. Additionally, efficacy (efficiency and
effectiveness) indicators could be developed, thus completing the conceptual basis for the M&E framework.
M&E activities wil be based on the first two groups of indicators, while the third group can be developed
and used for management purposes by the area within the General Secretariat responsible for the technical
oversight of the project.
Monitoring. Tracking of project implementation progress will be based on a group of physical-financial
(input-output) indicators. The MIS programming and administration module will support preparation of
the Annual Operating Plans (POAs), budgets and work programs, based on the Project Implementation
Plan, to provide the necessary background information to assess implementation progress. The MS
physical and financial monitoring module will provide up to date information to allow monitoring of project
physical and financial implementation.
Evaluation. Evaluation of overall project implementation performance and development impact will be
coordinated by the General Secretariat, and its inputs and outputs will be contained in the MIS
performance evaluation module. Evaluation will involve different areas of activity, including assessment of
physical and financial implementation performance based on the comparison of target and actual values of
a set of input and output indicators. This will be coupled with development evaluation based on particular
evaluation studies focused on a complementary set of outcome, process and impact indicators, to determine
the particular results and impacts attained by the activities financed by the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
r_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _  _  _  __- Policy               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     O Yes 0 No
Cultural Pr yero (OPN 11.03)                                    Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects In International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
- 28 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Safeguard policies which could potentially be applicable are: (i) environmental assessment; (ii) indigenous
peoples; (iii) projects in international waters; (iv) involuntary resettlement; and (v) projects in disputed
areas. Upon examination, the three first-named policies are applicable, as outlined below:
(i) Environmental assessment: As outlined in Section 5, the project aims to prevent future degradation of
the Guarani Aquifer System through improved management, planning, information, policies, and
development of specific pollutioni control measures. The project does not include infrastructure investments.
However, the activities of Component VI might lead to post-project energy development or other thermal
water use investments, which could have as yet unquantified environmental impacts requiring specific
mitigation measures in the future. Accordingly, this project is classified as Category B.
(ii) Indigenous peoples: Given that the project area encompasses 1.2 million square kilometers, a number of
indigenous groups living in the region are potentially affected by the project. The project will not have any
infrastructure or investment components that would affect these indigenous groups. Some groups, however,
have indicated their interest in being incorporated into project implementation as stakeholders.
An Indigenous Peoples Strategy (IPS), Sub-component 3d, has been designed based on preparalory studies,
consultations and discussions with key indigenous actors and institutions and other related civil society
entities. It is important to note that with respect to OD 4.20, the IPS of the Guarani Aquifer Project was not
formulated to mitigate actual or potential negative aspects of other project activities, but it rather
constitutes one of the main mechmisms of the project for the effective and informed participation of
indigenous peoples. The principal indigenous peoples organizations will be specifically consulted during the
project period, and specific reconumendations on how to best incorporate indigenous peoples as
stakeholders will be included in tie SAP so as to ensure their adequate inclusion in the managerment of the
Guarani Aquifer System. Details are included in Annex 12.
(iii) Intemational Waters: The guidelines referring to Intemational Waters aim at identifying instances in
which activities within a transboundary waterbody in one country would or could have effects on another
country. In the case of this project the four riparian countries sharing the body of water are represented on
the Project Steering Committee and have collectively submitted this project proposal. While the policy
applies, separate notification of aay one country is, therefore, not necessary.
(iv) Involuntary resettlement: Due to the nature of the project (e.g., involving no infrastructure
investments), no involuntary reseltlement will take place.
(v) Disputed areas: There are no disputed areas in the project region.
F. Sustainabillty and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of the project wilU be facilitated by involving stakeholders in the project activities from the
beginning. As previously mentioned, the demand for this project originated in the countries. By building
human capacities and strengthening institutions, and further sensitizing stakeholders, including those within
civil society, it is expected that the collaborative firamework built up by the project will be sustainable after
the end of the project. Certain costs of the project, such as maintaining the information system, are of a
recurrent nature and would require continued financing by the governments and other stakeholders after
project completion. These costs, including the costs of human resources and institutions, will have to be
- 29 -



borne by the countries within the Guarani Aquifer System region.
The terms of reference for the Strategic Action Program specifically include the design of financial
mechanisms for long-term sustainability of project investments. This is especially pertinent given that the
proposed aim of the project is to sustainably manage the aquifer. It is expected that these costs, in spite of the
extent of the Guarani Aquifer System will be relatively modest. As mentioned previously, the Guarani
Aquifer System is very confined, implying high costs - and therefore limited demand - for well drilling.
Long-term monitoring (transaction) costs will thus be far lower than would be the case for a surface water
system of the same extension. Consequently, the expected financial burden on the countries is expected to be
manageable.
As recently articulated at the previously referenced GEF first Biannual Conference on International Waters,
the preparation of the Strategic Action Program, required by the GEF, constitutes the first phase of a project
involving international (transboundary) waterbodies. It also implies that, in order to provide the project (and
the process of better managing transboundary waters) with the necessary sustainability, a second phase needs
to be contemplated during which the Strategic Action Program would be implemented. As the Strategic
Action Program is the principal output of this project, the need for follow-up will be taken into account by
including planning for the second, implementation phase of the Strategic Action Program into the last year of
the current project. In the case of the Guarani Aquifer System, a second phase would imply investments in
the protection of recharge areas, in the prevention and mitigation of point-source pollution, and in measures
to reduce overdrafting of the Guarani Aquifer System in specific localities, as well as potential development
of activities related to the thermal characteristics of its waters. Financing of the second phase might imply
country resources, GEF, World Bank, private sector and/or other multi- or bilateral funding.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk.                   Ri -skRting      -     Risk_Mitigation!Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Countries discontinue agreement to         M         Build a strong climate of collaboration through
assess, generate and share data about the            frequent and transparent communication during
aquifer; relevant data and information is            project preparation and implementation. Use
not available or shared.                             Project Steering Committee to reinforce
agreement.
Institutional arrangements cannot be       M         Work with Project Steering Committee to find
agreed or do not function; compatible                solutions.
protocols, methodologies, processes and
organizations fail to be agreed.
Counterpart funding not available.         M         The major part of contributions is in-kind. Use
discussions in Steering Committee to resolve
issue.
Capacity building measures do not          M         Monitor quality of inputs from all four countries
produce quality contributions from all               and strengthen where needed.
countries.
Agreement on light and fair administrative  S        Start discussions early in the process and take
structure for aquifer management cannot              into account interests of the four countries,
be reached.                                          including the different stakeholder and decision
making groups.
Local stakeholders, communities (CSOs)     M         Disseminate information to civil society and
and NGOs are not appropriately involved              design institutional arrangements to include
- 30 -



in project implementation.                           organizations.
Institutional roles not clarified or        S        Build a strong climate of collaboration through
supported, politically or financially,               frequent and transparent communication during
especially at the sub-national govemment             project preparation and implementation. Work
levels.                                              with Project Steering Committee to improve
institutional functioning.
Countries fail to carry out their          M         Use Steering Committee mechanism and
obligations under regional agreements and            communication to resolve. General Secretariat
plans.                                               to emphasize efforts in enforcing obligations.
From Components to Outputs
Collaboration between partners in the four  M        Build a process of continued interaction as well
countries weakens.                                   as adequate monitoring ofjoint project results.
Investigations are not carried out in a     S        Monitor input continuously and strengthen
timely manner leading to partial slippage.           where needed.
Governments and the public do              M         Involve civil society from the beginning and
not remain interested in broad                       inform them of options for participation to
participation in the project.                        foster inclusion.
Local interest in pilot measures is low;   M         Secretariat to provide information to local
public does not participate in the project.          stakeholders and incorporate concerns into
design from beginning.
Aquifer management system is noi: agreed   M         Build a strong climate of collaboration between
or established                                       all stakeholders through frequent and
transparent conmmunication. Work through
Steering Commnittee to reinforce decision making
processes.
Timely follow-up is not achieved.          M         Encourage local ownership of the project
through workshops and seminars; prepare the
implementation strategy during the project
period and secure funding for implementation
Collaboration between partners,             S        Disseminate information to civil society and
stakeholders, governmental units, ;md                design institutional arrangements to include
NGOs is not possible or fails                        organizations; build a strong clinate of
collaboration. General Secretariat to enhance
efforts in this regard.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Project Implementation Plan finalized and approved by the Bank-
* Bilateral Agreements between OAS and countries effective.
*   Project Coordinator selected and approved by Bank.
- 31 -



*   Basic infrastructure facilities for the operation of the General Secretariat of the Project have been
established.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
n/a
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A draft Project Implementation Plan, including a global procurement plan, exists and has been appraised.
Finaliation of the Project Implementation Plan will be a condition for effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Karlin Erika Kemper               John Redwood                      Vinod Thomas
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/ Iroctor           Country ManagerlDirector
- 32 -



Annex 1: ProJect Design Summary
LATIN AMERICA. Environmenital Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System     Project
Key Performance          Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators                   .                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improved groundwater        Institutional and legal      Benchmark reviews of        Enduring political
resources management within frameworks for groundwater   Country Assistance Strategies commitment to improve water
the overall framework of     resources management                                    resources management and
improved water resources and established and implemented                             protection
natural resources management
in the respective countries:
Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay
and Uruguay
Quality of polluted         Economic Sector Work in      Enduring political
waterbodies improved or     water, groundwater, and      commitment to take
stabilized                  natural resources management preventive measures for
environmental sustainability
Groundwater overdraft        Environmental analyses
mitigated or exploitation
stabilized
Water allocation efficiency,
equitability, productivity and
sustainability improved
GEF Operational Program:
Initiate actions toward resolving  Transboundary environmental  Project reports and documents  Political conunitment among the
transboundary environmental  analysis carried out, identifying                       four countries continues high
concems for the Guarani Aquifer top-priority multi-country
System within an improved joint environmental concems
groundwater management
framework
Derive lessons learned from  Strategic Action Program    Monitoring and dissemination  Coordinated activities and joint
experiences in using various  elaborated, consisting of  workshops                    efforts amnong the four countries
types of institutional      expected baseline and additional                          are undertaken; Stakeholders are
arrangements at the national and  actions needed to resolve                           adequately involved in all
regional levels for collaboration  transbouadary conerns                              countries
in addressing priority
transboundary environmental
concerns
Lessons leamed disseminated,  Supervision missions
monitorinig systems developed
and implemented, and positive
improvements in process
indicators, stress reduction  General Secretariat/ Steering
indicators and environmental  Committee reports and minutes
status indicators documented
- 33 -



Key PerlFormance --        Data'Collectlon'Strateg 
Hierarchy df Objectives         K    nyilcator  c           t       c      St.ategy     Critical Assumptions
Global Objective:            Outcome I Impact             Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Sustainable use and management Pollution risks diminished or   Strategic Action Program     Continued political
of the Guarani Aquifer System in controlled                    documentation                commitment by countries
Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and                                                             to agree on a common
Uruguay for current and future  Overdraft risks diminished or  Specific scientific, legal,  aquifer management
generations, supported by the  stabilized                      technical, and institutional  framework
joint development and                                          documentation
implementation of an adequate,  Risk of future inter-country                                Counterpart funding,
flnctioning aquifer management groundwater conflicts diminished  Operational manuals       sufficient financial
framework, based on sustainable                                                            resources available
technical, scientific, institutional, Future mitigation and    Mid-term evaluation
legal, financial, political, and  stabilization costs reduced  studies
environmental grounds
Periodic monitoring and
evaluation system reports
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Expansion and
consolidation of current
scdentiflc and technical
knowledge base of
the Guarani Aquifer System
I.a) Aquifer studies for      1. a) Well inventory carried out  Report on wells, their  Continued agreement by
consolidation and expansion of  in all four countries      distribution and impacts     countries to assess, create,
the scientific knowledge base                                                           enhance, and share data and
carried out                   1. a) At least 70% of all wells  Publication of relevant maps  information
assessed in terms of use and and accompanying descriptive
water availability, quantity, and  wntten and digital materials  Institutional arrangements
quality                                                   between country and external
Published sampling, analytical,  partners functioning
1. a) Aquifer System's western  and quality control/quality
and southem limits defined   assurance manual and reports
Compatible protocols, processes,
I. a) A preliminary conceptual  Reports and proceedings from  methodologies and organizations
aquifer model is available to  seminars and workshops     are being used
help improve understanding of
its principal features       Supervision / monitoring     Relevant data, information and
Reports                      documentation are readily
I.a) Geological and                                       available and shared
hydrogeochemical maps of     Evaluation mission reports
priority areas produced      (mid-term evaluation)        Studies are adequately
coordinated in terms of timing
I1. a) A general, regional   Periodic Technical Assistance  and mutual contributions
hydrogeologic map, as well as  visits and Reports
thematic maps on potentiometry
with network flows, surveys of  Progress reports from the  Guarani Aquifer System Project
recharge and discharge areas,  different NPEUs and the    coordinates well with
isorhansmissivity and        General Secretariat          contributing agencies staff, such
- 34 -



isopro&chctivity, are available                          as IAEA and BGR
1. a) Water quality is assessed  Reports frtom participating
and pollition patterns       agencies
distinguished in terms of the
origin, inpacts and ways to
remediate the pollutants
1. a) Specific isotope studies are Guarani Aquifer Project
carried cut to support a better  i
understanding on Guarani
Aquifer System's origin and
age, evollution, hydrodynaiic
behaviot, boundary conditions,
recharge-discharge
relationships, and geothermal
character
1. b) Technical and           1. b) Different water uses are  Monitoring and Evaluation
socio-economnic assessment of  assessed, including forecasts  reports
current and future use scenafios  relying cn alternative
of Guarani Aquifer System     socio-economic scenarios
carried out                   simulated through digital
aquifer rauodeling, to support
direct decision making models
1. b) Descriptive maps of the
aquifer showing present
developtrent and abstractions,
including water uses, geographic
distribution, and socio-economic
and environmental data, as well
as typical well productivity, are
availablte
1. b) Reg;ional technical rules
are legal instruments developed
to control well design,
construclion and operation
1. b) Regional aquifer
vulnerability and associated
risks assessed, with special
emphasim on transboundary
areas.
2. Joint development and
implementation of the Guarani
Aquifer System Management
Framework
2.a) Monitoring netwozk for the  2. a) Pennanent monitoring  Periodic data reports and  Continued agreement by the four
aquifer system implemented,   network comprised of at least  published information on the  countries to jointly elaborate a
functioning and regularly     184 welli; (5% of total number  dimensions of the Guarani  Guarni Aquifer Management
assessed, to support scientific,  of known wells) in plice;  Aquifer System; supporting  Framework and start parts of its
technical and managerial      adequate equipment, sampling  information published through  implementation at a regional
activities regarding the protection  proceduchs and frequencies,  Guarani Aquifer System (SISAG  level
and sustainable development of  analytical methods, and sample  - Sistema de Informaci6n del
the Guarani Aquifer System    management protocols are    Sistema Acu{fero Guarani)
- 35 -



available
Consensus among country
2. a) Monitoring network and                           govemments and between
equipment adequately                                   these and civil society
maintained, and sustainably                            stakeholders
financed
2 b) Development and Integration  2.b) Infomnation and  Annual progress reports on
of an Information System (SISAG  Documentation System network progress toward formulation of  Technical agreement can be
- Sistema de Informaci6n del  implemented primarily via  the TDA and SAP, and the   reached on light and fair
Sistema Acuifero Guarani)    Intemet, set up, and adequately  Guarani Aquifer System  administrative structure for
simultaneously implemented,  operated and maintained with  management framework    the Guaranf Aquifer System
shared, and regularly functioning  sustainable financing identified
in the four countries        and available              Protocols for the operation and
expansion of the GIS and
2. b) One SISAG Focal Point in  web-based information systems
each country equipped, set-up  implemented and sustained
and functioning in each country                        CSOs are constructively
Supervision/monitoring      participating in policy
Reports                     discussion and formulation
2. c) Strategic Action Program  2. c) Documentation available
prepared, comprising at least  containing the Strategic Action  Strategic Action Program
plans for: (i) medium and    Program for the four countries,  documentation
long-term actions with regard  legal and institutional
to the management of the     frameworks, and accompanying  Evaluation mission reports  Transboundary groundwater
Guarani Aquifer System at the  material relevant to decision  (mid-term)            related institutional roles and
local, regional, national and  making such as regional                              responsibilities, with strong
supranational levels, (ii)   mapping, diagrams and tables  Periodic Technical Assistance  legal, political and financial
investments for pollution and  related to the state of the aquifer visits and reports  support, are clarified at national,
overdrafting prevention and  system, and including                                  state / provincial / departmental
mitigation measures, especially  identification of financing                        levels, as applicable
regarding transboundary      agencies and donors, and future Progress reports from the
problems, by public and/or   information needs beyond first  Project Implementation Units
private sectors, (iii) investments  program phase       according to institutional
in geothermal energy use and                            arrangements
other potential groundwater uses, 2 c) At least 8 workshops and
(iv) and conflict resolution  meetings held between
mechanisms                   stakeholders of multiple levels, Guarani Aquifer Project
nationally and             Website
intemationally, to arrive at
sustainable technical, scientific, Legal proposal document
legal, institutional, political and
diplomatic agreements
An agreement or an intention
2. c) Technical consensus  protocol by the four countries as
proposal for a Legal Framework a paramount step toward a
to manage the Guarani Aquifer  coordinated, sustainable
System elaborated          management system for the
aquifer
2 c) Multi-country agreement on
an institutional, financial, and  Progress reports and mninutes of
technical framework to jointly  the Steering Committee meetings
manage the Guarani Aquifer  and other diplomatic initiatives
System exists and is under
implementation             Monitoring and Evaluation
Reports
2. d) Institutional Capacity  2. d) Specific support provided
strengthened in relevant agencies  to water managers and  Supervision missions
and institutions
- 36 -



strengthened institutional
(state/national/provincial/muni-  frameworks by means of
cipal levels)                 Technical Assistance on     Workshop and seminar reports
demand, technical exchanges,  and minutes
and 40 twinning (staff
exchange) arrangements
Transboundary Diagnostic
2. d) At least 8 events -   Analysis documents
seminars, meetings, workshops
- held to improve water
management, with benefit to at
least 2'i of the countries'
organiiations active in the
groundwater field
2. e) Transboundary Diagnostic  2. e) TD)A documentation
Analysis carried out          produced and disseminated
3. Public and stakeholder
participaidon, Education and
Sodal Communication
3. a) Regional Communications  3. a) Regional Public       Plan documentation          Standardized criteria for
and Public Participation Plan  Communication and                                       Monitoring and Evaluation
prepared                      Participation Plan formulated  Manual on Regional and Local  indicators are agreed with the
and do:umentation available  Social Communications       four countries and being
published                   implemented
3. a) Irfornation and document
dissemination is continuously
provide,d by the Guarani Aquifer Supervision / monitoring reports Capacity-building measures
Geogre.phic Information System,                          and Technical Assistance
especially via its Website
3. b) Guarani Aquifer System  3. b) Guarani Citizens' Fund  Evaluation mission reports
Citizens' Fund established    establiiihed and US$ 240,000 in  (mid-term and final)    Commitment remains high to
grants awarded to CSOs                                   integrate civil society into the
process of designing a
3. b) Coummunity-level       Periodic Technical Assistance  sustainable management
activities carried out by CSOs to  visits and Reports    framework for the Guarani
enhance public participation,                            Aquifer System
commnimication and education
3. c) Instruments created and  3. c) Pifrtinent public     Progress and Goal Achievement Each country carries out its
disseminated to increase      communication materials,     reports from the Project    campaigns according to agreed
awareness, interest and       adapted to each country and  Implementation Units, according regional Plans
commitment among stakeholders  with special emphasis on pilot  to institutional arrangements for
areas produced and           the project
disseminated                                             CSOs are interested in
participating
3. c) Information dissemination  Workshop reports
campaigns in each country
carried out at local level   Newspaper articles and
TV / Radio coverage
3. d) Indigenous People's Strategy  3. d) Scoping study carried out,
(IPS) implemented             with ernphasis on indigenous  Environmental/groundwater
peoples' rights to water and  education materials published
natural resources
-37 -



3. d) Workshops, training and  Specific project documents,
direct consultations have taken  papers and reports made
place in Argentina, Brazil and  available by specialized and
Paraguay                     nonspecialized regional and
international magazines, and
3. d) Relevant project       other brochures and
documentation has been       informational materials
translated into indigenous   published and distributed
languages and disseminated
Guarani Aquifer Website
Reports on public participation
considered in the preparation of
the legal framework
4. Project monitoring and
evaluation, and dissemination
of project results
4. a) Monitoring, evaluation and  4. a) Project monitoring and  Monitoring and Evaluation  Sufficient capacity is created
feedback system developed and  evaluation system is       reports                     to enable high-quality
implemented                   implemented and functioning                              monitoring, processing,
Workshop reports            evaluation and feedback of
4. a) At least bi-annual                                 project resuts
workshops (by country) held for  Supervision / monitoring reports
technical discussions,
consultations and project    Evaluation mission reports  Healthy project performance
progress information and     (mid-term)                  helps keep counterpart funding
feedback                                                 available
4. a) Progress reports, together  Periodic Technical Assistance
with project result and      visits and reports          Stakeholders are flexible to
performance reports, generated                           adjust course if necessary,
and disseminated at least once                           derived from periodic project
per year                                                 assessments and feedback
recommendations
4. b) Dissemination of project  4. b) Project/country      Seminar and workshop papers
results                       stakeholders participate     and reports
in at least four relevant
international events, including
GEF-IW meetings, to share and
validate project results
4. b) Project webpage well   Guarani Aquifer System
maintained                   Website
5. Development of Management
and Mitigation Measures
within Identified "Hot Spots"
5. a) Hot Spot Concordia
(Argentina) - Salto (Uruguay)  5. a) and b) Socio-economic  Supervision / monitoring reports Local buy-in and active
participatory stakeholder                                Participation, involvement and
and                           assessments ca ried out                                  commitment
Pilot project design and
5. b) Hot Spot Rivera (Uruguay) - 5. a) and b) Local awareness  operation manual published  Studies and analyses provide
Santana (Brazil)             raised through public                                     sufficient basis/background for
participation by means of                                the preparation of the pilots
- 38 -



workshops, consultations and  Field visits to pilot areas
communications compaign                                  Information is generated and
(in conisection with comp. 3)                           improved, methodologies tested
Evaluation mission reports  and results / conclusions at
5. a) and b) Scientific studies  (mid-tern and final)    sub-regional level help improve
executed and geological,                                joint development and
hydrogiological, and                                    implementation of water
hydrogeochemical information  Periodic Technical Assistance  managemeni framework
available and periodically   visits and reports
updated                                                  Aquifer water management and
Progress reports from the   protection experience and lessons
5. a) and b) Data bases on wells, General Secretariat   learned are available for sharing
water uses, and aquifer                                  and replication
parameters are available via  Guarani Aquifer Website
SISAG and local information
networcs                                                 Different partner agencies
Published sampling, analytical,  work together
5. a) and b) Specific subregional and quality control/quality
digital hydrogeological models  assurance manual and reports  Collaboration across agencies
are available to support decision                        exists
maldng.
Reports and proceedings of
5. a) and b) Local aquifer   seminars and workshops
management plan elaborated,
including institutional      Final assessment reports on the
arrangements, well permits   costs, feasibility, lessons
system, well and recharge   learned, and recommended
protection areas, subregional  future actions
monitoring networks, and
minimum distance criteria for  Local aquifer management plans
well construction and operation
5. a) arnd b) Specific
tranaboundary management
framework developed to allow
testing and assessment of    Monitoring and Evaluation
specifi, strategies, tools and  Reports
actions to solve problems and
provide input to regional actions
Scientific and technical reports
5. a) arid b) Institutional, legal,
managerial, social, and      Workshop and consultation
environmental experiences    reports
documented to allow
replicability assessments    Public dissemination material
5. c) Hot Spot Encamaci6n -   5. c) G5ohydrological
Ciudad del Este - Caaguazui   knowledge of area increased,  Scientific and technical reports
(Paraguay)                    esp. regarding recharge and
discharge characteristics and
aquifer vulnerability
5. c) Socio-economic
assessment, including water  Workshop and consultation
usage and well inventory,    reports
carried out, with emphasis on
indigernous populations      Public dissemination material
5. c) Public information     Progress and evaluation reports
- 39 -



campaip carried out      Local aquifer management plan
5. c) Management needs
identified and proposal,
including priority actions and
localities, elaborated
5. d) Hot Spot Ribeirao Preto  5. d) Participatory social
(Brazil)                      assessment, consultations and
local information dissemination
carried out
5. d) Technical assistance for
local aquifer management
planning provided
5. d) Local aquifer management
plan elaborated
6. Assessment of Geothermal
Energy Potential
6 a) Aquifer's geothermal     6. a) Geothermal data and    Supervision / monitoring reports Task force successfully
potential assessed in its     pertinent information                                    established and relevant
geohydrological,              updated and new              Evaluation mission reports  stakeholders included
socio-economic, and           thematic maps produced       (mid-term and final)
environmental dimensions      (in connection with                                      Pertinent geothermal data
Component I)                 Periodic Technical Assistance  available in a timely manner
visits and reports
6.b) Recommendations for      6. b) Four-country task                                  Development possibilities
activities to be executed in future  force created to undertake  Progress reports from the  derived from newly acquired
endeavours, proposals for     scientific assessment jointly  Project Implementation Unit  information, methodologies and
possible geothermal development  with international experts and                        experiences, assessed in
areas and future geothermal   agencies                     Workshop reports            hydrogeological, socio-economic
project framework defined                                                              and environmental terms
6. b) Analyses of            Guarani Aquifer Website
socio-economic, financial, and
environmental feasibility of  Periodic publication of relevant
possible future geothermal   maps and accompanying
activities and areas carried out  descriptive written and digital
by Task Force                materials
6. b) Conceptual identification  Compilation Report on aU
of possible pilot projects in the  pertinent existing information
four countries is available  and strategy definition with a
local / subregional approach
7. Project Coordination and  Project well managed and     Project Progress Reports     Counterpart funding, including
Management                   objectives reached                                       for country coordinators, is
Supervision Missions         available
Steering Comnittee meetings  Implementation arrangement
adequately designed to deal with
inherent project complexity due
to the project's multinational
character
Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                Outputs)
1. Expansion and consolidation  US S 9.91 million                                      CoUaboration between
-40 -



of current scientific and technical                                                 partners in the four countries
knowledge base of the Guarani                                                       remains high.
Aquifer System
2. Joint development and    US $ 7.0.1 million                                      Research and development is
implementation of a Management                                                      carried out in a timely manner,
Framework for the Guarani                                                           with high quality and compatible
Aquifer System                                                                      methodologies.
Political commitment to the
project remains high, incl. active
participation in project's
institutional arrangements.
3. Public and stakeholder   US S 1.31 million                                       Process to develop and
participation, education and                                                        implement the joint
social communication                                                                management framework is
well designed and responds
to stakeholders' needs
4. Project monitoring and   US $ 0.4:3 million                                      Indicators refined and M&E
evaluation and dissemination of                                                     System defined in a timely
project results                                                                     manner
Governments and the public
5. Development of Management  US $ 3.7 3 million                                    remain interested in broad
and Mitigation Measures within                                                      participation in the Guarani
identified "Hot Spots"                                                              Aquifer System management and
implementation
6. Assessment of Geothermal  US $ 0.23 million                                      Countries provide their
Energy Potential                                                                    counterpart, including active
participation in in-country and
regional activities
7. Project Coordination and  US $ 4.04 million                                      Partners from different sectors
Management                                                                          and origins, including water and
energy, collaborate
Total project Cost          US $ 26.76 million
-41-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
1. Objective
The long-term objective of the process started through the proposed Project is the sustainable
management and use of the Guarani Aquifer System. The Guarani Aquifer System is situated in
the eastem and south central portions of South America, and underlies parts of Argentina, Brazil,
Paraguay and Uruguay. This project is a first step toward achieving the long-term objective. The
purpose of the proposed project is to support the four countries in jointly elaborating and
implementing a common institutional, legal and technical framework for managing and preserving
the Guarani Aquifer System for current and future generations. To achieve this, seven project
components are envisaged: (i) expansion and consolidation of the current scientific and technical
knowledge base regarding the Guarani Aquifer System; (ii) joint development and implementation
of a Guarani Aquifer System Management Framework, based upon an agreed Strategic Program
of Action; (iii) enhancement of public and stakeholder participation, social comnmunication and
environmental education; (iv) evaluation and monitoring of the project and dissemination of
project results; (v) development of regionally-appropriate groundwater management and
mitigation measures in identified "Hot Spots"; (vi) consideration of the potential to utilize the
Guarani Aquifer System's "clean" geothermal energy; and, (vii) project coordination and
management.
2. Approach
The joint development and implementation of the Guarani Aquifer Management Framework is the
core of the Project. The other project components are designed to provide the scientific, technical,
social, legal, institutional, financial and economic basis for the Framework, as illustrated in Figure
1. The specific objectives, estimated costs, and GEF financing for the project components are
described below.
Technical           ~~~~Framework           Assmn
Stakeholder        _
educatal f l n clud  Monitrlnga   Ientfe
communicaton   ioevaluation and GIl to test 
AdisseminatPong    management 
r 
The project has seven interrelated components that quantify the state of the aquifer in terms of its
morphology and behavior, its use and conservation, it relationships to communities and
institutions, and its planning and organizational needs for improving coordinated management of
-42 -



its waters. This knowledge will provide a scientifically-sound and well-documented base for
establishing a framework for thte coordinated and consensual management of the Guarani Aquifer
System, capable of providing for its environmental protection, and integrated and sustainable
development. The project will identify and test key management elements (including policies,
mechanisms, and instruments) that will facilitate the sustainable and coordinated management of
the Guarani Aquifer System. 'The resulting management framework will provide the means to
mitigate and/or resolve the most pressing transboundary environmental problems that threaten the
aquifer. In addition, this framework will provide a means to address local conflicts arising from
the use of the waters of the aquifer system (especially those related to water pollution and over
exploitation to provide a long-term strategy for risk mitigation), and assess its potential to provide
"clean" geothermal energy to communities within the region.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$9.91 million
Expansion and Consolidation of the Current Scientific and Technical Knowledge Base on
the Guarani Aquifer System
The objective of this Component is to synthesize, analyze, and expand the existing knowledge
base related to the Guarani Aquifer System in the four countries. A sound scientific and technical
understanding of the aquifer is essential to the development of an articulated, consensual and
effective management framework that facilitates its sustainable development within its regional
setting, while providing a necessary measure of environmental protection for the shared resource.
The Component will also seek to expand and improve the understanding of the potential and
threats facing this body of water. In so doing, this Component will identify institutional actors,
water users, and social groups whose actions irnpinge upon the Guarani Aquifer System. There
are two sub-components:
l.a) Aquifer studies for consolidation and expansion of the scientific knowledge base, in
order to quantify and disseminate scientific knowledge on the geometry, structure and
hydrodynamic behavior of the aquifer, and to synthesize and expand the existing knowledge
base in order to meet specific objectives (including determination of the southem and westem
boundaries of the aquifer within Paraguay, Argentina and Uruguay) - A thorough inventory of
public and private wells will be undertaken. The determination of the characteristics and
magnitude of the Guarani Aquifer System, the extent of existing levels of pollution of the
aquifer within the countries, and identification of the areas of recharge and discharge,
including the hydrogeology and dynamics of the Guarani Aquifer System, are important, basic
characteristics of the system that must be known prior to any attempt to manage it.
l.b) Technical and socio-economic assessment of current and future use scenarios of the
Guarani Aquifer System - Based upon the knowledge base assembled during the previous
sub-component, the technical knowledge of the Guarani Aquifer System will be used to
develop techniques to (i) conduct an appraisal of the present uses and anticipated future uses
of the aquifer under a variety of foreseeable scenarios, (ii) assess the interactions between
these various uses and the cumulative impact of the Guarani Aquifer System, and (iii) appraise
-43 -



the available technologies for surveying, extracting, and using the waters of the Guarani
Aquifer System.
The results and products of the two sub-components will establish the parameters within which
the Guarani Aquifer System can be sustainably exploited, without damage to the underlying
structure and function of the aquifer system, within an objective technical and scientific
framework. These results, in combination with the practical outcomes of the pilot projects in
identified Hot Spots to be completed under Component V, are of fundamental importance for
supporting decision making with respect to the management and protection of the Guarani
Aquifer System.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) will support a portion of this Component
insofar as it relates to the application of isotope methodologies for determining, among other
phenomena, the conditions and limits of groundwater flow within the Guarani Aquifer System.
The LAEA will provide funds and in-kind support to the use of isotopes to delineate the extent
and character of the aquifer, and, through these activities, contribute to building capacity and
strengthening institutions in the countries in this region. The IAEA will also ensure the quality of
the analyses and the consistency and reliability of laboratory results based upon the isotopes.
IAEA acitivities are additional to project activities and are expected to further enhance the
knowledge. The component would still reach its objectives, even if LAEA funding was not
available.
In addition, the Government of Paraguay is currently in discussion with the Bundesanstaltfuer
Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe ("German Geological Survey" - BGR) with regard to the
provision of technical assistance in support of this Component. Incremental financing has been
made available by the BGR, which will provide support contributing to capacity building and
institutional strengthening in Paraguay, and support the acquisition and management of
geohydrological data within that portion of the aquifer. This will improve the capacity building
effect in Paraguay and therewith the quality of the project. If the funding should not materialize,
the overall project results would not be detrimentally affected, however.
Execution of this component will take place through the General Secretariat in close coordination
with the four country Executing Agencies through their respective NPEUs.
GEF: US $ 4.57 million; co-funding: US $ 5.34 million; total: US $ 9.91 million. Co-funding is
expected to include contributions from the IAEA in the amount of US $ 0.30 million, from the
BGR in the amount of US $ 0.14 million, and from the World Bank Netherlands Water,
Partnership Program (BNWPP) in the amount of US $ 0.03 million.
Project Component 2 - US$7.01 million
Joint development and implementation of the Guarani Aquifer System Management
Framework
As outlined in the introduction, this component constitutes the core of the project, with the other
components feeding into it. The objective of this component is to develop a framework for the
coordinated management (technical, institutional, financial and legal) of the Guarani Aquifer
- 44 -



System, taking into account the principles of sustainable integrated development, the problems
and potential of the Guarani Aquifer System, and environmental protection concerns. This
framework will be established within a Strategic Action Program (SAP) to be implemented in the
Guarani Aquifer System region. The SAP will articulate, in a logical and comprehensive manner,
in both space and time, the principal lines of action necessary for achieving the project's long term
objective. There are five sub-components:
2. a) Design and implementation of an aquifer monitoring network that provides results
early in the execution phase to support efforts to implement and strengthen the knowledge
base on the Guarani Aquifer System - This network includes the installation and running of
equipment on a 5% sample of all wells. Its implementation is an essential tool for providing
basic data and information necessary for the coordinated management and administration of
the Guarani Aquifer System, and monitoring of its behavior in space and time.
2. b) Development and integration of an Information System (SISAG - Sistema de
Informacion del Sistema Acuffero Guarani) for the Guarani Aquifer System that facilitates
the management, standardization, dissemination, and utilization of data, information, and
documents, in order to enhance coordinated management, based upon a sound knowledge of
the Guarani Aquifer System - This system, including a GIS, will provide the technical basis
for decision making relating to the aquifer. It will provide the basic knowledge necessary for
resolving present and emerging problems, and ensuring the sustainable use of the aquifer's
potential.
2. c) Formulation of a Strategic Action Program (SAP) - The SAP will provide a strategic
framework for the coordinated management of the Guarani Aquifer System. Such a
framework will facilitate amd support solutions to the current and emerging problems of
pollution and over-exploitation of the Guarani Aquifer System, as well as resolution of other
transboundary environmental problems that may threaten its sustainable development.
A core piece of the SAP process will be to develop an institutional framework for the
management of the Guaraii Aquifer System. In addition, a sequence of activities, such as
workshops and seminars, are planned to arrive at a technically agreed consensus proposal for
a legal Guarani Aquifer System management framework. The SAP process also contributes to
identifying and managing tie potential uses of the Guarani Aquifer System through a process
that encourages the participation of different stakeholders in the conduct of a prioritized, core
group of activities for the: coordinated management of the Guarani Aquifer System in a
manner consistent with the purposes of the GEF and the interests of the four countries.
The SAP will enrich, diversify and disseminate knowledge, information, visions, and
documentation on the Guarani Aquifer System, so as to promote sustainable, integrated
management and environmental protection. (See Annex 14)
2. d) Institutional strengthening - Development of groundwater management expertise and
strengthening the institutional base within the Guarani Aquifer System region is the basic
building block upon which the bransboundary management of the Guarani Aquifer System will
-45 -



be supported. Appropriate and relevant means of strengthening agencies, in order to support
the management framework, to be further elaborated during the subsequent implementation
phases of the project, will promote a solid basis for the joint management of subterranean
waters of the Guarani Aquifer System. These means include twinning (staff exchange)
arrangements between agencies involved in Guarani Aquifer System management in the
different countries to benefit at least 40 (ground)water managers, development and delivery of
a suite of groundwater management courses, short-term Technical Assistance to agencies and
institutions involved in groundwater management, and study tours of managers and decision
makers to other relevant transboundary (ground-)water institutions. These activities will be
targeted at national as well as subnational entities, including state/provincial institutions and -
if applicable - to water supply utilities.
In addition, a fund for research and capacity building is currently being created, to be financed
through the Bank Netherlands Partnership Program, to be accessed by universities in the
Guarani Aquifer Region. Universities will be able to request funding in order to finance (i)
development and carrying out of courses relating to groundwater research and/or
management, with specific emphasis on the environmental aspects of the Guarani Aquifer
System and (ii) research related to the Guarani Aquifer System with the express goal of
involvement of Master's or Ph.D. students.
Research topics could include, for instance, broadening of the knowledge basis linked to point
and non-point source pollution, including vulnerability assessments and protective zoning;
investigation into vulnerability relating to localized aquifer overdraft; environmental aspects of
groundwater administration and allocation (e.g. monitoring indicators and implementation of
environmental monitoring schemes; impact analysis of water use concessions); environmental
impacts of geothermal aquifer exploitation, pollution control management at country and/or
regional level, environmental aspects of international law of groundwater resources related to
the Guarani Aquifer System, and financial impacts on user groups through pollution and/or
overexploitation.
The objective is to provide universities in the region of the Guarani Aquifer System, which are
key players in the long-term management of the Guarani Aquifer, with resources for joint
research and capacity building and to ensure that (i) groundwater in its environmental and
social dimension enters the academic agenda in the region, also to the benefit of the problems
encountered in shallower aquifers in the four countries; (ii) future human resources are trained
in the environmental and social aspects of Guarani Aquifer Management as a critical input
once the Guarani Aquifer Management Framework is agreed upon between the countries and
to be implemented, (iii) the academic community continues to be involved in the umbrella
Guarani Aquifer Project; and (iv) links are strengthened and created between the universities
in the region. The Fund will amount to a total of US $370,000 to be disbursed over a time
period of three years. Regulations for the University Fund will be included in the Project
Implementation Plan.
2. e) Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis - The mix of approaches adopted under this
Component will not only contribute to the formulation of the SAP, but will also result in a
-46 -



comprehensive Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) that represents the first step
toward defining the underlying root causes to be addressed during a program of active
management of the aquifer. Given the technical capacities of the countries, it is important that
the TDA be completed in such a way as to provide for the ongoing monitoring of the
resource. This is particularly the case vis-a-vis the implementation of a monitoring system
linked to an Inforrmation System, and the preparation and implementation of a shared GIS,
which has been designed to support decision making for the management and protection of
the Guarani Aquifer System. The Information System then becomes an essential element in the
dissemination of knowledge on the aquifer and its different interrelationships. The nature of
subterranean waters makes it possible to establish a monitoring system early on in the project.
In addition, the volume and dispersion of the existing information on the aquifer requires a
special informatics effort t:o organize and disseminate the information by means of a practical,
operational infonnation system during the early stages of project execution. By providing a
working data and monitoring system early in the project, this Component can contribute to
maintaining the interest of relevant stakeholder groups.
Execution of this component will take place through the General Secretariat in close coordination
with the four country Executing Agencies through their respective NPEUs. In the case of the
development of the SISAG, at least four national focal point agencies (i.e. at least one in each
country) will be identified, which will be responsible for the development and maintenance of
information in the SISAG.
GEF: US $ 3.49 million; co-linding: US $ 3.52 million; total: US $ 7.01 million. Co-funding is
expected to include contributions from the BGR in the amount of US $ 0.05 million, and from the
World Bank Netherlands Water Partnership Program (BNWPP) in the amount of US $ 0.07
million.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.31 million
Public and stakeholder participation, education and communication
The objective of this Component is to promote, support, and enrich the participation and
involvement of the public, and to foster environmental and water education, social
communication, and the dissemination of knowledge on the project and the Guarani Aquifer
System, its management and conservation, within stakeholder communities. It includes strategies,
programs, and actions, as well as support for the pilot projects in the identified Hot Spots to be
conducted under Component V. This Component will involve: (i) the design and implementation
of a Regional Commnunicatiorts Plan that will contribute to sensitizing and educating people in the
Guarani Aquifer System region, and (ii) ensuring that relevant stakeholders are involved in
preparing and executing the SAP. The stakeholders identified to date, through the project
development phase activities, include water users, resource management institutions, water
service providers in both rurall and urban areas, NGOs, academics, the private sector, and minority
groups. Four sub-components are proposed:
3. a) Design of a Regional Communications and Public Participation Plan - Periodic
reviews of the status of information dissemination, and of the participation of the population
in the region, including public servants, water users, academics, professional groups, business
-47 -



persons, environmental NGOs, indigenous groups and leaders, in developing and
implementing the project, and in formulating the SAP will be undertaken. These reviews will
contribute to an evaluation of results achieved at the end of the project in the areas of
communications, education and public participation. A key element in achieving a high degree
of public participation in the project will be the preparation of a Social Communications
Manual for the project. The manual will outline ways and means of promoting events that will
enhance the "image" of the project among stakeholder groups. It is anticipated that activities
will include: the periodic preparation of an electronic "newsletter" to be distributed over the
Intemet, targeting specific groups of stakeholders; circulation of an informational bulletin on
the project, likewise over the Intemet, as well as through other media; conduct of
institutional-based infomiation campaigns; design and implementation of a distance learning
curriculum for youth, to be disseminated through radio/television and the press; and creation
of a project image bank of digital photographs relating to aspects of aquifer protection and
management.
3. b) Guarani Aquifer System Citizens' Fund. Development of strategies and concrete
actions for spurring and strengthening environmental education as well as education on the
Guarani Aquifer System waters - Community-level dissemination of information and
knowledge on the Guarani Aquifer System, its management and conservation, is an essential
element for ensuring the sustainability of this project. Participation of community-based NGOs
will be facilitated through a Guarani Aquifer System Citizens' Fund, the purpose of which is
to support, in part, activities that encourage public participation, communication, and
community education. This fund will be subject to implementation regulations that will govem
the submission and funding of proposals from, inter alia, NGOs and community organizations
operating in the Guarani Aquifer System region. It is anticipated that grants, up to US$ 10,000
in value, will be awarded on a competitive basis, with a matching requirement of 20 percent
applicant share and 80 percent Citizens' Fund grant. Grants could be used for implementation
of groundwater/ environmental education and awareness raising activities related to the
Guarani Aquifer System. The applicant share can be in-kind, with human resources valued at a
standard rate to be detemined as part of the grant regulations. Regulations for the Citizens'
Fund will be included in the Project Implementation Plan.
3. c) Creation and dissemination of instruments to increase awareness, interest, and
commitment among stakeholders - Measures to involve children and youth in the Guarani
Aquifer System project will not only enhance the project's "corporate image", but also result
in a widespread and long term awareness and commitment to protecting and preserving the
aquifer. Lessons leamed from similar efforts within the Latin American region suggest that
young people will carry the message of sustainable and responsible use of the aquifer from
their classrooms to their homes, and that their parents will be engaged in the process of
protection and sustainable utilization as a result. Thus, an important element of this
sub-component will be development and dissemination of a school booklet and atlas of the
aquifer. In addition, other activities envisioned include, inter alia, the preparation and
dissemination of an environmental manual and a manual on the Guarani Aquifer System for
teachers and community leaders; sponsorship of contests and sports awards; conduct of radio
and television campaigns; creation of reference centers and a mobile Guarani Aquifer System
-48 -



classroom; convening of workshops and seminars on the Guarani Aquifer System; and the
production of supporting raaterials such as brochures, posters, and videos. Given the extent
of the Guarani Aquifer System, these activities will emanate from the Regional
Communications and Public Participation Plan (3 a) and initially will be prepared as pilot
demonstration projects in the identified "Hot Spots" (see Component 5), targeted to specific
locations, which will facililate testing of the materials and programs prior to later expansion to
the regional level during subsequent phases of the project.
3 d) Indigenous Peoples Sitrategy - An Indigenous Peoples Strategy (IPS) has been designed
based on preparatory studies, consultations and discussions with key indigenous actors and
institutions and other relat.d civil society entities. Because there will be no physical project
investments, indigenous peoples will not be directly affected by project activities. On the other
hand, the long-tern goal of the project to create a management framework for the Guarani
Aquifer System may eventually have effects on their rights and obligations, e.g. with regard to
registration of new wells. As previously noted, with respect to OD 4.20, the IPS of the
Guarani Aquifer Project was not formulated to mitigate actual or potential negative aspects of
other project activities, but it rather constitutes one of the main mechanisms of the project for
the effective and informred participation of indigenous peoples. It includes further in-depth
studies, participatory assessments, and consultations in the project area in general, as well as
in the Paraguayan Pilot area in particular. Details such as phasing, action steps and budget are
included in Annex 12.
Specifically, the results of this Component will: (i) foster greater participation by interested parties
in the project; (ii) expand the regional dissemination of knowledge on subterranean waters and the
Guarani Aquifer System; (iii.) enhance integration among project participants; (iv) produce
promotional materials for disseminating infornation on the aquifer and the project; and (v)
promote activities to awaken an interest in the economics of water and conservation of water
quality. This Component will furnish the greatest number of people in the region-including
minority cultures and groups--with information so as to promote their greater participation and
involvement in the project. Slakeholder participation, especially in the forrnulation of the SAP,
pilot projects in the Hot Spots, and the evaluation and monitoring of the project, will improve the
likelihood of its sustainability.
Execution of this Component is the responsibility of the General Secretariat as well as of the
National Executing Agencies through the NPEUs. The National Executing Agencies will be
specifically responsible for de'velopment and/or adaption of national outreach material as well as
project workshops and consultations. In addition, civil society organizations that are awarded
funding through the Citizens' Fund will act as executing entities.
GEF: US $ 0.77 million; co-iunding: US $ 0.54 million; total: US $ 1.31 million. Co-funding
includes matching grants from beneficiaries representing US $ 0.05 million.
Project Component 4 - US$0.48 million
Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Dissemination of Project Results
The objective of this Component is to create and implement a system for recording and analyzing
-49 -



progress achieved during the project implementation period. This system will allow early
detection of potential problems, and provide feedback to the participants on the experiences
gained and lessons learned. This Component will include the dissemination of information, results
and lessons leamed, with a view to possibly replicating project results under similar conditions
and circumstances elsewhere in the Guarani Aquifer System region and in other transboundary
groundwater areas. It has two sub-components:
4. a) Development and implementation of a monitoring, evaluation and feedback system -
Based upon agreed management and performance indicators that reflect the project objectives,
consistent with the logical fi-amework analysis (see Annex 1), periodic evaluations of project
progress will be conducted by the Executing and Implementing Agencies. In addition, the
Steering Committee, at its semi-annual meetings, will review the degree to which the project
has fulfilled the key performance indicators. The Guarani Secretariat will also monitor project
results on a regular basis. Goals, criteria and standards to measure and monitor project
performance will be developed and agreed using the GEF-IW process indicators (see Annex
18).
4. b) Dissemination of project results throughout the region and beyond - The results of
the project and lessons learned will be disseminated through reports, the Internet, international
conferences, workshops and meetings, and direct exchange of experiences to other existing or
potential groundwater management and protection projects. The General Secretariat will act
as a focal point for the interaction of the Project with other GEF-IW projects in the Latin
American region. Using the Inter-American Water Resources Network (IWRN) and other
media, the project staff will communicate and coordinate activities between GEF-IW projects
to facilitate information-sharing and dissemination of project approaches and results.
In order to contribute to institutional development and to ensure widespread implementation
of the lessons learned through the conduct of the project, governmental stakeholders at the
local and sub-national levels will be provided with specific information on the results of the
project. In this way, the project will promote sustainable follow-up activities at the community
level, and facilitate local ownership of the project findings.
The results of this Component will assist the Executing and Implementing Agencies to
appropriately track project progress. This Component will also provide specific information to the
General Secretariat and project Steering Committee to facilitate their participation in the project
and in ensuring the direction of the project, based upon regular reports and agreed progress
indicators. Specific progress measures, in addition to the key performance indicators identified in
the PAD and consistent with the GEF-IW process indicators, will be developed and agreed under
this Component.
Execution of this Component is the responsibility of the General Secretariat as well as of the
National Executing Agencies through their NPEUs.
GEF: US $ 0.26 million; co-funding: US $ 0.22 million; total US $ 0.48 million.
- 50 -



Project Component 5 - US$3.73 millon
Development of Management and Mitigation Measures within Identified "Hot Spots"
The objective of this Component is to design, apply, and evaluate the costs and feasibility of good
management practices at specific sites within the Guarani Aquifer System region. Appropriate
management and mitigation measures to address specific threats facing the sustainable utilization
of the Guarani Aquifer System will be developed for demonstration purposes. Dissemination of
information on successful management and mitigation measures will be likely to spur concrete
actions in areas currently wider threat and/or where existing or emerging conflicts occur,
especially in border areas. The pilot projects will focus on the prevention and mitigation of
specific point and nonpoint sources of pollution, as well as overdrafting of the aquifer in critical
recharge and discharge areas, or in confined areas of the aquifer, where there is a high
concentration of uses and users.
It has been established througb. technical studies that clear transboundary issues exist in the border
areas of ArgentinalUruguay (well yields are diminishing and some cross border disputes are
apparent due to the importanrce of these geothermal wells for tourism) and Uruguay/Brazil
(pollution between sister cities across the border). The nature of the aquifer system, i.e. very large
volumes of mainly confined aqiuifer storage compared to significant - but smaller and much more
localized - volumes of active recharge, mean that there is a possibility that major development
could provoke large drawdowas with the potential for conflict between competing users. This is
the more significant, given the fact that the most valued exploitation is in the form of 'overflowing
geothermal wells' and conservation of such artesian heads is managerially more demanding than
normal aquifer management. Furthermore, the recharge area in Paraguay, bordering Brazil and
Argentina, is a potential area ifor transboundary impact. These three areas have been included as
Hot Spots with a transboundary focus to be addressed by the project.
In addition, the area of Sao Paulo is the one experiencing the most extraction and pollution in the
entire aquifer system area. While it is highly unlikely that pollution in Sao Paulo would reach the
other countries, the technical and institutional assessments have shown that this area can provide
important lessons in terms of decentralized management and monitoring approaches. All four
countries agree that the institutional management framework for the Guarani Aquifer System
needs to be as light as possible, precisely due to its size. Therefore it will be necessary to test
which types of measures will work in border areas and also in areas of significant national
importance.
This component thus comprises two transboundary pilot projects associated with existing and
emerging uses of groundwater, one border area pilot project associated with developing and
understanding of aquifer characteristics, and one pilot project in a heavily urbanized area. In detail
those are:
5. a) Concordia (Argentina) / Salto (Uruguay) - This area of the Guarani Aquifer System is
currently experiencing corncerns of a transboundary nature related to the exploitation of the
waters of the Guarani Aquiifer System for thermal tourism within a confined portion of the
- 51 -



aquifer. This pilot demonstration project will develop a local understanding of the behavior
and a local joint sustainable management plan of the thermal waters of the Guarani Aquifer
System aimed at the sustainable utilization of these waters. (As noted elsewhere, this activity
will also contribute to the studies and investigations proposed under Component I, and will
also contribute to the assessment of the thermal energy potential of the Guarani Aquifer
System waters to be conducted under Component VI).
5. b) Rivera (Uruguay) / Santana do Livramento (Brazil) - This transboundary demonstration
project is designed to assess mechanisms relating to the management and protection of
subterranean waters within an unconfined portion of the aquifer. Specifically, this
sub-component will address the increasing concerns identified within geographic areas
devoted to agricultural development and rural activities with relevant joint growth patterns
observed during the past few years. A local joint management plan for the aquifer will be
elaborated to his effect.
5. c) Encarnaci6n - Ciudad del Este - Caaguazu - The border corridor between Paraguay and
Brazil/Argentina is a recharge/discharge area of the Guarani Aquifer System. This Pilot
Project will provide critical information regarding such areas in the Guarani Aquifer System
and address concerns with regard to its vulnerability to human disturbance. Based on the
acquisition of this information, the outcome of this pilot is expected to be an assessment of
and proposal for future management needs in this area.
5. d) Ribeirao Preto (Brazil) - In addition to the foregoing, localized contamination and
overdrafting of the aquifer from urban land uses in densely populated portions of the aquifer is
another threat facing the Guarani Aquifer System. Strategic interventions, including Technical
Assistance for the development of a local aquifer management plan in the heavily impacted
area of Ribeirao Preto will be supported by the Project. They will leverage current activities
by the Government of Brazil regarding groundwater protection and management measures in
this area.
These sub-components will involve scientific and technical activities to clarify the hydrogeology,
geophysics, hydrogeochemistry, and hydrodynamics of specific areas within the Guarani Aquifer
System, and, in general, better define the morphology and dynamics of the Guarani Aquifer
System at specific sites of critical importance. The selected, land use-related demonstration
projects are strongly oriented toward identifying, implementing, and evaluating concrete and
sustainable management measures relevant to the aquifer, and in resolving existing and potential
transboundary environmental and water quantity threats as they apply to the Guarani Aquifer
System. On the technical side, they include well inventories, well construction assessments and
assessments of related pollution and overdraft threats. Thus, while these pilot projects include an
element of local/subregional modeling, they focus primarily on the determination and
implementation of measures to mitigate problems and sustainably tap the existing potential of the
aquifer. The projects directly involve local stakeholders and interested parties in the assessment
and decision-making pertaining to the management, administration, and local protection of the
aquifer. The results of this Component will be tried and tested applications, procedures,
methodologies, and legal and fiscal instruments, designed to meet the project objectives, that can
- 52 -



be replicated elsewhere in the Guarani Aquifer System region or beyond where similar threats
occur. The recharge/discharge area pilot project focuses more on developing an understanding of
aquifer behavior in these critical areas, contributing basic information to, and complementing, the
activities being conducted under Components I and II, and developing a methodology for
assessing human impacts in these critical areas. A detailed description is included in Annex 17.
Execution of this Component is the responsibility of the General Secretariat as well as of the
National Executing Agencies through their NPEUs.
GEF: US $ 2.31 million; co-funding: US $ 1.42 million; total US $ 3.73 million. Within the
co-funding, a BGR contribution in the amount of US $ 0.41 million.
Project Component 6 - US$0.28 million
Assessment of Geothermal Eriergy Potential
The objective of this Component is to evaluate the geothermal potential of the Guarani Aquifer
System in scientific, technical, economic, financial, and environmental terms, and to provide this
evaluation to the relevant ministries, including energy, within the participating countries. The
thermal waters of the aquifer are currently being exploited on a limited basis for thermal tourism,
primarily in Uruguay and, to a lesser degree, Argentina. Favorable conditions for the occurrence
of thermal waters are likely to exist in Paraguay and in certain places in Brazil. In addition to the
use of these waters for thermal tourism, the possibility exists that these thermal waters could also
be used in industrial processes and for the generation of energy as a substitute for fossil fuels. In
particular, there is a clear interest in tapping the low enthalpy supply of the aquifer. However,
given existing concerns regarding the sustainability of these thermal waters, the energy-related
options will have to be evaluated in technical, economic, social, and environmental terms.
Depending on the results of such an evaluation, pilot activities could be developed to make use of
this potential, and perhaps spur the development of new projects that could be of interest to the
countries. This Component has two phases:
6. a) Phase one - During the first year of project execution, existing geohydrological data will
be compiled and evaluated. Data to be used in the evaluation will be acquired under
Component I of the project. These data will provide information on the extent of the thermal
waters of the aquifer, and, through specific modeling activities, permit an assessment of the
sustainability of proposals fDr exploiting such waters for geothermal energy production.
6. b) Phase two - During the second year of project execution, a task force comprised of
representatives of the four countries, supported by world experts in the study and use of the
enthalpic energy, will be created. This task force will conduct a scientific evaluation of the
geothermal potential of the Guarani Aquifer System based upon the data acquired during
Phase one. The task force will also evaluate the technical feasibility of using geothermal
energy, conduct financial arLd economic analyses and environmental impact studies of possible
future energy production activities. Depending upon the outcome of these actions, and taking
into account technical, economic and environmental considerations, they will identify and
prioritize areas for possible geothermal development. This latter activity, the results of which
will be communicated to the energy ministries in the participating countries, will include
- 53 -



specific recommendations for future works and for the preparation of thermal projects at the
conceptual level in the four countries, insofar as they are likely to be sustainable. Detailed
Terms of Reference for the task force would be prepared by the General Secretariat during
Year 1 of the Project.
The results of the Component will be specific recommendations for future works, including
proposed areas for possible geothermal development, and concept level proposals for the
formulation of such projects, along with any needed accompanying environmental mitigation
measures. These results, together with the appropriate guidelines to be developed as part of the
SAP, will be shared with the energy ministries of the participating countries and used to guide
decision-making with respect to the future development of this potential. Based upon these results
and recommendations of the task force, each country will be able to consider what steps to take
to further develop identified potentials, including undertaking pilot projects in their territory
should the results warrant.
Execution of this Component is the responsibility of the General Secretariat as well as of the
National Executing Agencies through their NPEUs.
GEF: US $ 0.20 million; co-funding: US $ 0.08 million; total US $ 0.28 million.
Project Component 7 - US$4.04 million
Project Coordination and Management
The objective of this Component is to provide organizational and administrative support to the
project. This Component will include the incremental elements of activities associated with project
leadership and coordination within the regional context, together with analytical capacity and
production of specific material and documents. As noted under Component IV, the General
Secretariat and the Coordination Group will act as focal points for the dissemination of project
results, and coordination with, and communication between, other GEF-IW projects within the
Latin American region. The IWRN and related communication media and mechanisms will be
utilized to facilitate this interaction.
GEF: US $ 1.80 million; co-funding: US $ 2.24 million; total US $ 4.04 million. Within the
co-funding, an OAS contribution in the amount of US $ 0.32 million is included.
- 54 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
Project Budget and Sources of Financing
=__________________________  Project Budget and Sources of Financing
Exteral Contibuton (USS x 1000)           Countjea Contrbution (USS xIO00)
GEF        Oier Soures,    Subtotal                                  Subtotal
=u~nt |   %    hnount |%     Arnount| %    Un~guo  Argentna Brazil Pamguay  -  %
1) Contributions by BGR, OAS, IAEA, BN%VPP, and Beneficianes.
- 55 -



Annex 4 Incremental Costs
LATIN AMERICA. Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
1. Broad Development Goals. The Guarani Aquifer System is situated in the eastem and south
central portions of South America, and underlies parts of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and
Uruguay. This project is a first step toward achieving the long-term objective of a sustainable
management and use of the Guarani Aquifer System. Its purpose is to support the four countries
in jointly elaborating and implementing a common institutional and technical framework for
managing and preserving the Guarani Aquifer System for current and future generations. To
achieve this purpose, seven project components are envisaged: (i) expansion and consolidation of
the current scientific knowledge base regarding the Guarani Aquifer System; (ii) joint
development and implementation of a Guarani Aquifer System Management Framework, based
upon an agreed Strategic Program of Action; (iii) enhancement of public and stakeholder
participation, social communication and environmental education; (iv) evaluation and monitoring
of the project and dissemination of project results; (v) development of regionally-appropriate
groundwater management and mitigation measures in identified "Hot Spots"; (vi) consideration of
the potential to utilize the Guarani Aquifer System's "clean" geothermal energy; and, (vii) project
coordination and management.
2. Baseline Situation. Relatively few investments have been made to date in the project area and
surrounding environs with regard to the monitoring and management of the Guarani Aquifer
System as a resource. Notwithstanding, the countries have acknowledged the increasing pressures
upon the Guarani Aquifer System, and have recently increased their levels of investment in this
system. These consist of: (1) ongoing and long-term development projects for the lands overlying
the Guarani Aquifer System, and (2) environmentally related activities associated with
development programs, executed independently by federal/national, state/provincial, and local
authorities, and (3) some groundwater management programs. Most of the projects tend to be
within the latter categories of investment, and are almost exclusively financed by national
agencies. These agencies include the Subsecretariats for Water Resources, for Planning and Social
Environment, and for Environment, provincial directorates for public works and water/water
resources, and universities in Argentina. In Brazil, these agencies include various national
institutes, corporations and universities, the Secretariat for Water Resources, the National Water
Agency, and state directorates for water and environment. In Paraguay, the agencies include the
Secretariat for Environment, the National Environmental Health Service, the Asuncion Sanitation
Corporation, and the national university. In Uruguay, these agencies include the National
Directorates for Hydrography, for Minerals and Geology, and for Environment, the National
Sanitation Administration, and national university. The studies undertaken by these agencies are
almost exclusively aimed at data acquisition for specific research projects, are largely
uncoordinated, and are designed to fulfill specific national or local purposes. While many of these
projects are relatively uncoordinated, it is anticipated that benefits of the proposed project will be
to coordinate them both within the countries and across the four countries. This will contribute to
the formulation of the Strategic Action Program (SAP) to be realized during the conduct of this
project. Therefore, these investments represent viable in-country programs and activities within
the region that may have impacts on the project activities.
- 56 -



3. Other baseline activities, which have largely domestic or local impacts, include local
development and water supply works being conducted by the federal and national governments,
provinces, states, and local governments within the region. Data gathered under these programs
will also be available to, and used in, the preparation of the SAP to address environmental and
developmental concerns within the Guarani Aquifer System region.
4. GEF Alternative Scenario. The alternative scenario consists of the implementation of those
actions needed to both introduce the principles of environmentally friendly management and
sustainable development into development projects in the Guarani Aquifer System region. These
actions are designed to achieve global/transboundary environmental benefits by providing a
framework for the sustainable development and management of groundwater resources, and by
addressing transboundary concerns identified through a rigorous program of data gathering and
analysis. The elements of this program will be transferable to similar situations worldwide. The
costs of the actions are those necessary to include sustainable development considerations into
development projects within the region over and above the requirements of the regular
environmental impact assessments and mitigation measures required to be completed under
existing national, federal, provincial and state environmental laws and regulations.
5. Water resources managemtent in the Guarani Aquifer System basin will be directed and
coordinated by the relevant national, federal and subnational agencies, as set forth in specific
national and federal laws. Harmonization and compatibilization of these legal systems, and
existing national and federal programs, in the context of the Guarani Aquifer System is an
important element of this project. To achieve this result, the agencies managing the water
resources of the Guarani Aquifer System, inter alia, will require strengthening both in terms of
institutional functioning and hviman resource capacity.
6. Reduced contamination, irmproved public health, and more effective and sustainable use of
available water resources are national benefits to be expected as a result of the activities of this
project. Notwithstanding, these outcomes also have significant impacts in maintaining the Guarani
Aquifer System and, therefore, have additional benefit for the globally significant resources within
the region. However, the full extent of localized benefits cannot be estimated at this time. Thus, it
is assumed that the domestic. funding provided is equivalent to the national costs and will
adequately compensate for the domestic benefits achieved.
7. Global Benefits. The global benefit arising from the GEF intervention will be the formulation
of a comprehensive management program to reduce and prevent contamination and pollution that
will not only have significant human benefit in the surrounding countries, but also could have
benefit to regionally significant wetlands, coastal areas, and riverine systems. Given- that the
countries are undertaking developmental investments in the Guarani Aquifer System area, it is
also envisaged that project activities will shift these current investments towards a more
sustainable path than they might otherwise take. A strategic program of activities will be
conducted within the Guarani Aquifer System region, which will demonstrate an approach to
(transboundary) groundwater management that could reduce contamination, minimize
overconsumption, and promote sustainable utilization of the resource in the four countries and for
- 57 -



groundwater systems worldwide. A breakdown of expected global benefits, by component,
follows.
Component I. Expansion and Consolidation of the Current Knowledge Base. The activities set
forth under this component are designed to assess and quantify specific issues of concem within
the Guarani Aquifer System basin identified during the GEF-PDF activities. These issues, to be
qualified within a Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA), include the identification of the
actual extent and geology of the Guarani Aquifer System; the quality of the waters contained
within the Guarani Aquifer System; aspects of the hydrology, recharge and utilization of the
waters of the Guarani Aquifer System; and the development of a model or suite of models, to be
used in the management of the resource, that describe the Guarani Aquifer System. The proposed
project considers means for identifying and quantifying risks of contamination and overuse of the
Guarani Aquifer System, known to be currently occurring. The baseline costs cover existing
infrastructure, monitoring activities, and investments in the Guarani Aquifer System region. The
project altemative costs are US $ 11.03 million, including the estimated US $ 4.87 million
counterpart contributions from the national and federal governments, and local governmental and
nongovernmental (NGOs) organizations, including educational institutions. Incremental funding
from GEF is $ 4.57 million.
Component R. Joint Development and Implementation of a Guarani Aquifer System Management
Framework. The rational use of water and other natural resources within the Guarani Aquifer
System region is limited by several existing and potential uses of water within the region that are
competing for increased shares of groundwater. This competition can influence the quality and
quantity of groundwater as well as potentially influence ecosystem structure and functioning
where the groundwater system interacts with the land surface. Given the intensity of existing and
potential demands upon this system, development of an integrated program of water resource
management could provide for a significant improvement in the decision-making ability of
regulatory agencies in the region that would result in both global and domestic benefits. Such an
improvement would contribute to achievement of an optimal mix of different groundwater uses,
based upon the corresponding costs and benefits of each use, including, inter alia, environmental
uses, which could support negotiated allocations among the different stakeholders and related
water pricing decisions. Knowledge of the critical factors influencing groundwater behavior, and
experience with methods of negotiation and agreement among competitive users of water, to be
acquired under Components I, III, and V, as well as elements of this Component, will be used for
improving management of natural resources in the basin. This management framework could be
transferred to other transboundary groundwater systems where complex mixes of competitive
water uses exist. The baseline cost of this Component is US $ 1.01 million, representing
investments in operating the existing geohydrometeorological networks and other government
activities. It is rather limited, given that up to now no efforts have been made to create a
crossboundary management system. The project alternative cost is US $ 11.03 million. GEF
incremental funding is US $ 3.49 million.
Component III. Public and Stakeholder Participation. The baseline costs of this component
represent completed and ongoing activities by the governments, provinces, and states for
engaging a variety of stakeholders in the design and implementation of on-the-ground
- 58 -



management activities. It amounts to US $ 0.34 million to cover ongoing environmental
educational and information programming within the Guarani Aquifer System region. T'he project
alternative cost is US $ 1.65 million. The actions proposed to be undertaken will expand and
enhance public involvement and stakeholder participation, including indigenous groups, through
broadly-based formal, institution-based as well as informal, community-based educational and
informational opportunities. GElF incremental funding is US $ 0.77 million.
Component IV. Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Dissemination of Results. Together with
the monitoring and management activities set forth in Components I through III, this Component
will strengthen institutional capacities to monitor and manage the project and to increase and
enhance the human resource capabilities necessary to carry out a program of strategic activities
within the Guarani Aquifer System region, reinforce the capacities of the institutions working in
the Guarani Aquifer System region to collaborate in data-sharing and analytical activities essential
for the sustainable, shared utilization of the resource. The baseline cost of this is Component zero
given that this component refers entirely to this new project. The project alternative cost is US $
0.48 million. GEF incremental funding is US $ 0.26 million.
Component V. Development of Management and Mitigation Measures. Based upon information
gathered during the GEF-PDF activities, together with the monitoring and management activities
set forth in Components I through HI, this Component will result in the development of measures
to quantify, analyze, and mitigate the impacts of human use of the Guarani Aquifer System in up
to four specific geographic areas overlying the aquifer. These areas represent current occurrences
of groundwater management issues of concern that are likely to recur within the Guarani Aquifer
System basin; namely, areas of'exploitation of the aquifer for geothermal water use, for urban and
industrial water use, and for agricultural water use, and areas of overexploitation of groundwater
resources. The project will focus on two transboundary areas, one vulnerable recharge and
discharge area in Paraguay and one heavily urbanized area in Brazil. The baseline cost of this
Component is US $ 1.1 million. The project alternative cost is US $ 4.83 million. GEF
incremental funding is US $ 2.3;1 million.
Component VI. Assessment of Geothermal Energy Potential. This Component is designed to
assess the potential utilization of the Guarani Aquifer System for geothermal energy production.
Such utilization is an emerging use that has the potential to conflict with the current use of these
waters for tourism. Nevertheless, geothermal energy production has the potential to provide a
source of "clean energy", which is, as yet, undeveloped and underutilized. The baseline cost of
this Component is zero because investments in geothermal energy are already counted in the
baseline of Component V and due to the fact that assessments of the geothermal energy potential
on a transboundary scale up to now have not entered into government programs. This project will
enable this vital step with regard to strategic assessment of possibilities and threats in using the
geothermal energy potential. The project alternative cost, to consider the future utilization of this
energy source, is US $ 0.28 million. GEF incremental funding is US $ 0.2 million.
Component VII Project Coordination and Management. In order to ensure a coordinated and
focused approach to the conduct of this project, this Component provides incremental fimding for
the management activities of the Guarani Secretariat and national executing agencies responsible
- 59 -



for the day-to-day activities to be carried out by the project participants. Incremental costs of the
activities of the Steering Committee are also included within this Component. The baseline cost is
zero because without the project, the countries would not need to invest in project coordination
and management. The cost of the project alternative, adding the transboundary consideration to
the current governmental and stakeholder activities and counting the counterpart costs incurred
by the national, federal, state, provincial, and local governments, universities, stakeholders and
NGOs currently active in the Guarani Aquifer System region, is US $ 4.04 million. GEF
incremental funding is US $ 1.80 million.
8. Total co-financing is US $ 13.36 million. The governments are contributing a total of $11.99
million in cash,kind, and taxes foregone. It has been confirmed that the governments will exempt
the OAS from tax liabilities. However, if the OAS ever lost its tax exempt status, then the
govermments would be required to pay a cash contribution of $2.14 million toward taxes.
Therefore, the taxes foregone by the countries are considered in the financing plan as counterpart
contribution. A significant amount of resources have been mobilized for the project and associated
financing from the BGR (Bundesanstalt fuer Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe/Government of
Germany), OAS, LAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency), and World Bank Netherlands
Water Partnership Program (BNWPP) in the amount of US $ 1.3 million is to be made available
for this project. In addition, the IAEA has signaled its willingness to make a further US $300,000
available in a second phase after two years of project implementation. A further contribution to
the project will be made by the Bank Netherlands Partnership Program in the amount of US $
370,000. This additional amount is not included in the project financing plan. It is expected that
additional future financing will be mobilized from other sources, including from the private sector.
This is an explicit target of the Strategic Action Program process.
- 60 -



Table A4-1: Incremental Cost Matrix (US $M)
Component         Category _       Amount   Domestic Benefits         Global Benefits
(1) Expansion and  Baseline      1.12       Information on the quality
Consolidation of                            and availability of
the Knowledge                               groundwater resources in the
Base                                        Guarani Aquifer System
Altemative     11.03       Same as above, with      Increased protection and
additional information   sustainable use of a
supporting the sustainable  globally significant
use of the resource and  groundwater system
overlying lands with a
_________  _______   transboundary perspective
Increment     4.57
(2) Development   Baseline       1.01       Geohydrometeorological
and                                         monitoring data
Implementation of
a Management
Framework
Altemative     8.02        Same as above, with added  Positive impacts of
capacity for improved,   coordinated groundwater
sustainable groundwater  management, and
management and           development of
decision-making for the  methodologies able to be
entire Guarani Aquifer   applied to other
System, rather than only for transboundary basins
national subareas
Increment     3.49
(3) Public and    Baseline       0.34       Public awareness of water
Stakeholder                                 conservation and public
Participation               _               health issues
Altemative     1.65        Same as above, with public  Positive impacts of
support for appropriate  coordinated groundwater
development, utilization and management, and
conservation of groundwater development of piograms
able to be applied to other
___________  _ _____                     transboundary basins
Increment     0.77
(4) Project       Baseline       0.0
Monitoring and
Evaluation              _
Altemative     0.48        Adequate monitoring and  Increased protection of
evaluation of the project, to  groundwater quality and
achieve proposed results and quantity with resultant
effective dissemination of  potential benefit to
project results within the  regional biological
countries and worldwide   diversity and maintenance
of surface water resources
Increment     10.26
- 61 -



Component        Category      Amount      Domestic Benefits       Global Benefits
(5) Development  Baseline      1.1        Monitoring and regulation of
of Management                              water and land use, energy,
and Mitigation                             and economic development
Measures in Hot
Spots
Altemative    4.83       Same as above, with added  Increased protection of
capacity to monitor and  groundwater quality and
regulate the use and potential quantity with resultant
impacts of land use on  potential benefit to
groundwater quality and  sustainable development
quantity, and promote   and human utilization of
sustainable economic    transboundary
development in the pilot  underground water
areas and beyond        resources
Increment    2.31
(6) Assessment of  Baseline    0.0
Geothermal
Energy Potentials
Altemative    0.28       Increased knowledge about  Development of
sustainable and beneficial  methodologies for the
strategies for development  integrated development
of the geothermal energy  and sustainable
potential, including the  utilization of
development of "clean    geothermal energy
energy" sources          resources
Increment    0.20
(7) Project      Baseline      0.0
Coordination and
Management
Alternative   4.04        Carrying out of adequate  Development of
project management      methodologies for
functions               coordination of
management and
monitoring of
multinational groundwater
systems
Increment      1.80
TOTAL             Baseline      3.57
Altemative    30.33
Global         13.40
crement
PDF/B Preparation                0.54
Total Project                   26.76
Increment                                                 .
-62 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LATIN AMERICA: Environmenl:al Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
Years Ending
2006
I Year 1I Year 2   |  Year 3     Year 4    Year 5     Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs      3525.55i  7576.1      4790.5    2293.85       0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs       1886.95    2411.7      2295.7   1979.45       0.0        0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs      5412.5    9987.8     7086.2     4273.3       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Financing          5412.5   9987.8      7086.2     4273.3       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Govemment            2594.75      3425      3296.9   2675.15       0.0       0.0      0.0
Central               0.C'      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
GEF                   2438.2    6142.1      3483.1    1336.1       0.0       0.0      0.0
Cofinanciers:
Beneficiaries              Cl     19.2        19.2       9.6       0.0       0.0      0.0
BGR                    137.5     162.5       162.5     137.5       0.0       0.0      0.0
IAEA                     150       150          0          0       0.0       0.0      0.0
BNWPP                     12        9          44         35       0.0       0.0      0.0
OAS                         80        80         80         80
Total Project Financing  5412.45  9987.8     7085.7    4273.35       0.0       0.0      0.0
Main assumptions:
* Contributions by the participating countries are in-kind, taxes foregone and in cash.
* Contribution by the BGR has been officially confirmed in the amount of Euro $664,000, to be contributed
to the project in-kind (i.e. goods, equipment, consultancies). Conservatively, the contribution is included in
the project at an estimated US $600,000. Finalization of the cooperation arrangement with the BGR
depends on agreement between the GOP and BGR
* IAEA has confirmed in-kind contribution (isotope analyses, technical assistance, equipment) of $300,000
for the first 2 project years. It is expected that another $300,000 will be made available in a second phase.
*   BNWPP contribution will be through technical assistance to the project.
* Pending finalization of a separate Grant Agreement between the Bank and the OAS, the BNPP
contribution is not included in this financing plan. It will consist of US$ 370,000 in financial resources for
a University Capacity Building Furnd and has already been approved by the Government of the
Netherlands.
* OAS contribution is in-ldnd, i.e. stUlf time and use of OAS office facilities during the four years of the
project.
-63 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
Procuremen
Capacity Assessment
The General Secretariat of the Organization of American States (OAS), as the designated
recipient of the Grant funds in representation of the four beneficiary countries, will be the
executing entity for the Project and thus responsible for compliance with Bank procurement
procedures. Therefore, a capacity assessment was carried out at OAS headquarters in
Washington, D.C.
The OAS has the necessary infrastructure and human resources, both in headquarters and in the
resident missions in each of the four beneficiary countries, to carry out and manage its
procurement in an orderly and well established manner. It would provide support, as needed, in
the procurement, legal and financial management areas which would facilitate Project execution.
All relevant manuals exist and appear to be applied. OAS has experience in executing Projects
financed by various other external sources, some of which call for particular procurement
requirements; such is the specific case of an on-going GEF Project in the Caribbean (Adaptation
to Global Climate Change).
A small coordinating team will be created as the Guarani Aquifer System General Secretariat
(GS), with oversight by the OAS' Environment and Sustainable Development Unit, to carry out
day-to-day operations, including procurement, and would be located in one of the beneficiary
countries. The General Secretariat will work closely with the four National Technical
Coordinators to execute the Project and it would follow the general direction and leadership of
the Project Steering Committee (the highest authority to be formed by delegates from the
participating countries).
The General Secretariat team will include a coordinator ("General Secretary"), three technical
staff, a financial administrator and an assistant. A procurement specialist will be hired for the
OAS Headquarters project team. The draft Project Implementation Plan (to be finalized by grant
effectiveness) specifies applicable procedures and requirements.
The assessment has been discussed with the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office on October
30, 2001. The risk assessment is AVERAGE as essential actions need to be taken to enable
compliance with Bank requirements.
The following actions are recommended:
(i) Finalization of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) by Grant effectiveness. The PIP will
contain:
- 64 -



* the updated Global Procurernent Plan and a specific Plan for the first year of implementation;
*   Outline of the Guarani Secretariat team's organization, responsibilities, and its relation to the
supervisory Unit and to the OAS.
*   With regard to procurement, it will describe document flow, thresholds, methods and steps to
be followed for the types of procurement and contracting, thresholds for Bank's prior review,
and procedures for planning procurement actions and reporting. Annexes to the PIP will
include internal forms and standard Bank documents (for ICB and RFP).
(ii) Selection of a qualified procurement specialist.
Procurement Methods
Methods and thresholds described below are summarized in Table A.
Goods. Equipment includes highly specialized computer systems, to be procured through ICB,
standard computer equipment, office furniture and other minor items. Contracts estimated at
$150,000 or more would be awarded following ICB procedures; and contracts estimated at
US$80,000 or less would follow national/international shopping, up to an aggregate of
US$150,000.
Consultant Services. The Project would finance specialized studies in the areas of hydrology,
geology, hydrochemistry and related fields, model development, monitoring system design,
inventory performance, social anid legal issues, etc. Other technical assistance related to
institutional and social and informational aspects, and Project management and evaluation are also
included. Large contracts (over $200,000) would be awarded following internationally advertised
competition.
Contracts valued at over $100,000 would be selected following Quality-Cost based method
(QCBS); contracts estimated at less than $100,000 would follow procedures based on
Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) method, up to an aggregate of $1.3 million.
Individual consultants include long-term contracts for the OAS General Secretariat team and
other shorter term technical assistance. Recruitment would be done according to Section V of the
Bank Consultants Guidelines. The Project would also finance two staff to support the OAS as
Executing Agency of the Project totalling $312,000 for the duration of the Project.
Training Services. The Projecl: includes financing of study tours, staff exchange programs,
organization of workshops and seminars etc. This category would cover rents, training materials,
food, travel expenses, facilitator fees, etc. To the extent applicable, training services would be
awarded through price comparison.
Matching Grants. An amount of $240,000 is included in the Project to finance goods, works
and services under demand-driven subprojects geared to conservation and sustainable use of the
- 65 -



Guarani Aquifer System. Subproject beneficiaries would be required to cofinance in cash or kind,
in addition to complying with elegibility criteria outlined in the Project Implementation Plan. The
average size of individual subprojects is estimated at $10,000.
Procurement under subprojects would follow commercial practices based on comparison of price
quotations. Direct contracting would be allowed in certain cases with prior approval from OAS
Project team. These procedures, among others, will be contained in the PIP. OAS would be
responsible for ensuring that these requirements are adhered to by the subproject beneficiaries.
Goods, works and services under this category do not form part of the aggregate amounts in
other categories.
Operating Costs. "Recipient's Operating Expenditures" are defined as expenditures for the
reasonable cost of travel for the Recipient's staff assigned to the Project, per diems,
communications and administration of the Project; and
"GAS General Secretariat Operating Expenditures" are defined as expenditures for the reasonable
cost of office supplies, utilities, communications, travel and per diem of General Secretariat staff,
as well as travel and per diem for members of the Project Steering Committee and the National
Project Execution Units. The total amount allocated to these expenditures is $290,000.
Operating expenses incurred by the OAS in its capacity as the Executing Agency for the project
will be reimbursed based on receipts (e.g. travels, per diem) and against predefined outputs in
accordance with the agreed Annual Operational Plans for the project.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
,rocurement Method
Expenditure'Category         ICB           NCB      ''Other2      -N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00       0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.80          0.00         0.16        3.00       3.96
(0.70)        (0.00)       (0.15)      (0.00)     (0.85)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00        11.70        3.60      15.30
Consulting                   (0.00)        (0.00)       (10.10)     (0.00)    (10.10)
4. Training and Workshops        0.00          0.00         1.70        1.40       3.10
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.40)      (0.00)     (1.40)
5. Matching Grants              0.00           0.00         0.24        0.05      0.29
(0.00)           (0.00)      (0.24)       (0.00)     (0.24)
6. Operating Costs               0.00          0.00         0.90        3.20      4.10
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.80)      (0.00)     (0.80)
Total                         0.80           0.00        14.70       11.25      26.75
(0.70)        (0.00)       (12.69)     (0.00)    (13.39)
- 66 -



I Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant All costs include contingencies.
1 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 67 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS,    SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cosi
A. Finns              7.90   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    3.50    12.70
(6.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (7.80)
B. Individuals       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50   0.15     2.65
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (2.20)  (0.00)  (2.20)
Total  7.90    0.00    0.00   0.00     1.30   2.50    3.65    15.35
(6.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.20)  (2.20)  (0.00)  (10.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 68 -



Prior review thresholds (Table Bl]
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Thre-shold '~ ~ Procurement.                  Pilor Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method.              (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                       >150                    ICB                     All
(0.80)
<80                  Shopping              First contract
(0.05)
3. Services:                   >100                   QCBS                     All
Consultants                                                                   (6.40)
<100                    CQ                First contract only
(0.06)
Individual Consultants          >50                 Section V of      All contracts and those for
sultalints         key staff in GS's team
Guidelines               (0.50)
4. Miscellaneous       =
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $7.81 in.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post..review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by acuntry and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 69 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
; -    Expenditure Category   -   Amount lnjUS$million    :   'Financln'Percentnag.
1. Goods                                  0.79                       100%*
2. Consultant Services                    9.70                       100%
3. Training and Workshops                 1.36                        100%
4. Matching Grants                        0.24               100% of disbursed amounts
5. Recipient Operating Expenditures       0.29                       100% *
6. Guarani Secretariat Operating          0.53                       100% *
Expenditures
7. Unallocated                            0.49
Total Project Costs                       13.40
Total                                     13.40
* Financing of lOO/o is based on the fact that the executing agency is not subject to taxation in the
beneficiary countries; thus, the respective govermments are foregoing the tax income.
Also, it must be noted that the countries' counterpart contribution through parallel financing is substantial,
as detailed in Table 2 of the main text. The reason for not cofinancing each payment is to avoid
cumbersome administrative dealings that applying counterpart from each of the sources would entail, and
to facilitate keeping Grant accounts clearly separate.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made on the basis of traditional Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and
Direct Withdrawal Applications (DWAs). In the case of the latter, disbursements will be made on
the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review
by the Bank, and contracts whose value will be raised above the prior review limits as a result of
amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements will be made against SOEs: (a) goods
costing less than $80,000; (b) contracts for consulting firms, including NGOs costing less than
$100,000; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000; and (d) all
expenditures relating to training services, matching grants and operating costs. All consolidated
SOEs documentation will be maintained by the OAS for post-review and audit purposes.
Reimbursement requests should be sent to the Bank on a monthly basis.
Special account:
A Special Account in US dollars would be opened by the OAS, using its commercial bank - Bank
of America. The Authorized Allocation to the Special Account would be up to US$1,300,000.
Monthly replenishment of funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the
previous advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of disbursement
applications. Deposits into the Special Account and its replenishments, up to the Authorized
Allocation(s) will be made initially on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903)
accompanied with the supporting and other documentation specified in the Disbursement
- 70 -



Handbook.
Audit:
An external auditor, acceptable to the Bank, will be contracted by the OAS to carry out an annual
financial audit of the project as required by OP/BP 10.02. 1. The company to be hired annually by
the OAS for auditing of the General Secretariat of the OAS, will also audit the present Project.
For this audit, the separate TOR agreed with the Bank will be applied and a separate audit report
will be fumished.
- 71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
ProjectSchedule                                Planned.                  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  29                         30
First Bank mission (identificatIon)         09/20/1999                 09/20/1999
Appraisal mission departure                 02/10/2002                 12/09/2001
Negotiations                                03/04/2002                 04/11/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness               09/01/2002
Prepared by:
General Secretariat of the Guarani Aquifer System Project; Argentina: Ministerio de
Infraestructura y Vivienda, Subsecretaria de Recursos Hidricos; Brazil: Minist6rio do Meio
Ambiente, Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos; Agencia Nacional de Aguas; Paraguay: Secretaria del
Ambiente, Direcci6n General de Recursos Hidricos; Uruguay: Ministerio de Transportes y Obras
1`6blicas, Direcci6n Nacional de Hidrografla; Secretariat of the Organization of American States.
Preparation assistance:
General Secretariat of the Guarani Project: Eduardo Mestre, Roberto Kirchheim, Griselda
Castagnini;
Argentina: Victor Pochat, Maria Josefa Fioriti, Maria Ester Teresa Bondaza, Eugenio Garcia
Santos, Mario Hernandez (National Technical Coordinator);
Brazil: Raymundo Garrido, Julio Thadeu Kettelhut, Pedro Fernando Bretas Bastos, Benedito
Braga, Francisca Menezes, Felix Domingues, Luiz Amore (National Coordinator);
Paraguay: Edmundo Rolon, Luis Meyer, Celso Velazquez (National Coordinator), Wilfrido
Castro;
Uruguay: Luis Loureiro (National Coordinator), Luiz Reol6n, Roberto Rodriguez Pioli,
Alejandro Arcelus;
Secretariat of the Organization of American States: Jorge Rucks, Enrique Bello, Nelson da
Franca, Lyda Ugas.
- 72 -



Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
.Name               .            -,, ,   : , Speciality
Karin Erika Kernper                 Water Resources Specialist/Economist, Task Manager
Alexander E. Bakalian               Water Supply Engineer
Carmen Palaco Nielsen               Procurement Analyst
George Ledec                        Enviromnental Analysis
Mariangeles Sabella                 Counsel
Morag van Praag                     Disbursement Officer
Musa Asad                           Financial Analyst
Luiz Gabriel Azevedo                Water Resources Engineer
Douglas C. Olson                    Peer Reviewer, Water Resources Engineer
Salman M.A. Salman                  Peer Reviewer, Counsel
Alvaro Soler                        Economist
Teresa M. Roncal                    Procurement Analyst
Enzo De Laurentiis                  Procurement Specialist
Michael Carroll                     Agriculturist
Weiguo Zhou                         Operations Officer
Luiz Noronha                        Consultant
Sylvia Michele Diez                 Consultant
Janice Molina                       Language Program Assistant
Maria Angelica Sotomayor            ConsultantlEconomist
- 73 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Plan
Component Implementation Plan(s), Costs, Timetable and Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
Project Concept Document and PCD Review Meeting Minutes
Decision Meeting Minutes
First and second PDF Block B Documentation
GEF Project Brief
GEF Concept Note
Back-to-Office Reports and Aide Memoires
C. Other
Documents prepared during PDF B Project Preparation Phase
L.1   COMPONENT L Expansion and Consolidation of the Current Knowledge Base on the
Guarani Aquifer System
Survey of all existing technical data:
*e    FUNPAR, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Expansion y consolidaci6n de la base actual
de conocimiento bdsico; Estudios Basicos del Acutfero, February 2001.
Study of the actual and potential uses of the aquifer:
*     Jorge de los Santos and Chang Kiang, Informe Final de la Consultorfa: Estudio del uso
actual y potencial del Acuifero Guarani, March 2001.
1.2   COMPONENT I Joint Development and Implementation of the Guarani Aquifer
System Management Framework
Definition of relevant information for aquifer monitoring network:
*     Albert Mente, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Definici6n de informacion relevante para
la red de monitoreo del acu'fero, January 2001.
Technical and conceptual design of the information system:
*     Noemi Tardivo, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Sistema integral de informaci6n
- 74 -



geogrdfica para la cogesti6n del agua del Sistema Acuifero Guarani, March 2001.
Survey of existing legal-institulional framework:
*     Corina Fernfindez, Infor me Final de la Consultoria: Levantamiento y analisis del Marco
juridico-institucional y aspectos legales en la materia hidrica ambiental de Argentina, March
2001.
*     Cid Tomanik Pompeu, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Levantamiento y analisis del
Marco juridico-institucional y aspectos legales en la materia hidrica ambiental de Brasil, March
2001.
*     Lauro Ramirez, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Levantamiento y anailisis del Marco
juridico-institucional y aspectos legales en la materia hidrica ambiental de Paraguay, April
2001.
*     Arturo Navarro, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Levantamiento y analisis del Marco
juridico-institucional y aspectcls legales en la materia hidrica ambiental de Uruguay, February
2001.
Preparation of TOR for a Strategic Action Plan:
*     Jorge Rucks, Stephen Foster, Roberto Ronchietto, Luiz Noronha, Eduardo Mestre,
Roberto Kirchheim, Griselda Castagnino, Informe Final del PEA: Programa Estrategico de
Acci6n: Resumen Ejecutivo, Descripci6n y Terminos de Referencia, March 2001.
Institutional assessment of involved agencies and institutions:
*     Luiz Noronha, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Propuesta de Desarrollo Institucional y
de Arreglos Institucionales, April 2001.
L3    COMPONENT III Public Participation
Identification of stakeholders, education and comnmunication needs, and pilot projects for public
participation:
*     Maria Elena GonzAlez Pioli, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Necesidades de educaci6n
ambiental y del agua, comunicaci6n social y proyectos piloto para la participaci6n e
involucramiento publico, March 2001.
Definition of mechanisms for communication and public participation in decision making:
*     Mario Bernalt, Informe Final de la Consultoria : Identificacion de actores, definici6n de
mecanismos para comunicaci6nyparticipaci6n publica que se requerirdn durante elproceso
de ejecuci6n del  proyecto, March 2001.
Indigenous Peoples Participaticn:
* Esther Prieto, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Participaci6n e Involucramiento de las
Comunidades Indigenas en las actividades de Gesti6n Sostenible e Integrada, y Proteccion
Ambiental del Sistema Acu;fero Guarani, Informe Final - Reptublica de Paraguay. Sept.
- 75 -



2001.
*   Esther Prieto, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Participaci6n e Involucramiento de las
Comunidades Indigenas en las actividades de Gesti6n Sostenible e Integrada, y Protecci6n
Ambiental del Sistema Acuffero Guarani, Informne Final - Reptblica Argentina. Sept. 2001.
* Juracilda Veiga, As popula,ces indigenas e as iniciativas de prote,cao ambiental e manejo
sustentavel do Sistema Aquiifero Guarani. July 2001.
Project Workshops and Meeting Reports:
*     Proceedings of the Seminar on the Guarani Aquifer, Foz do Iguacu; January 31 - February
1, 2000.
Reports of the Project Workshops:
a. July 12-14, 2000 - Santa Fe, Lanzamiento del Proyecto, implementaci6n de arreglos
institucionales y definici6n de marco L6gico y aspectos tecnico-cientificos del
Programa del PSAG;
b. November 28-29, 2000 - Asunci6n, Revisi6n de Avances del Proyecto y
Reorientaciones de Aspectos T6cnicos, Cientificos y Legales - Institucionales para
apoyar la Preparaci6n del Proyecto;
c. March 14-17, 2001 - Montevideo, Propuesta de PEA, incluyendo TORs; definici6n de
Bases de las Componentes 1 y 5 del Documento de Proyecto;
d. April 3-4, 2001 - Montevideo, Academicos, Revisi6n de Componentes 1, 5 y 6 de la
Descripci6n del Proyecto;
e. April 23-24, 2001 - Montevideo; Revisi6n de la Estructura y contenidos de la
Descripci6n del Proyecto;
f  May 7-8, 2001 - Asunci6n; Revisi6n y contrapropuesta de Arreglos Institucionales;
Revisi6n de las bases de Costos del Proyecto;
g. May 28-30, 2001 - Salto; Revisi6n y Consenso de la Documentaci6n resultante de la
Fase de Preparaci6n del Proyecto; para la Protecci6n Ambiental y Desarrollo
Sostenible del Sistema Acuifero Guarani
L4    COMPONENT IV. Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Dissemination of Project
Results
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
L 5   COMPONENT V. Development of Management and Mitigation Measures within
Identified "Hot Spots"
Identification of possible pilot areas for implementation of programs and development of TORs
for pilot programs:
*     Alberto Calcagno, Inforrne Final de la Consultoria : identificaci6n de areas para la
- 76 -



ejecuci6n de programas y acciones piloto y definici6n de terminos de referencia, March 2001.
L 6   COMPONENT VI. Development of Geothermal Energy Potentials
*     Hydrothermalism. Lars Tallbacka, Informe Final de la Consultoria: Geothermal Project
Component, June 2001.
. 7   COMPONENT VII APoject Coordination and Management
Incremental cost analysis:
*     Roberto Ronchietto, In'ormne Final de la Consultoria : Analisis de Costos Incrementales
del Proyecto. June 2001.
Including electronic files
- 77 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer
System Project
02-Apr-2002
Argentina
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Prject ID     FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undiab.      Ong    Fmm Revd
P069913       2002 AR Santa Fe Provindal Reforn                     330.00       o.0o                 0.00      0.00     176.70      0.00      0.00
P070374        2002 AR PROFAM UL                                      5 00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       5.00 0o40            000
P073591        2002 AR SAL I                                        400.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     200.00    200.00       0.00
P057473        2001 AR INDiGENOUS COMMUNrTY DEVELOPMENT UL            5.00       0,00                 0.00      0.00       5.00      100        0.00
P057459        2001 +RSustalnableFlFheres Magmt(UL)                   5.00       0,00                 0.00      0.00       500       000        000
P044447        2o01 AR Catamerce Provindal Reform                    70.70      0o00                  0.00      0o00      44.30     20.00       0.00
P068344        2001 AR Cordoba PRL5                                 303.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     200.00     100.00      0.00
P0o4614        2001 AR- Second Secondary Education Project           56.99       0.00                 0.00      0.00      54.42      2.57       0.00
P055482        2000 AR-Pub. Hlth. Surv. & DiSee5 Contro              52.50       0.00                 0.00      0 00      46.82     33.60       0.00
P057449        1999 AR State Modernizalion                           30,30       0.00                 0.00      0.00      24.59     24.59       0.00
P045048        1999 RENEW.ENERGY R.MKTS                               0.00       0.00                10.00      0.00       8.38      4.98       0.00
Po06043        1999 RENEW.ENERGY R.MKTS                              30.00       0.00                 0o00      0.00      28.39      12.09      0.00
P0o8048        1999 WATER SCTR RFRM                                  30.00       0.00                 0o00     000       26.98      24.49      3.98
P055461        1999 ARSOC&FISC NTLIDSYS                              1000        000                  000       000        345        345       2.24
Po06058        1999 AR-Social Prot4                                  90.80       0.00                 0 00      0.00      85 22      43.83      0.00
P050714        1998 AR-SecondaryEd.3                                119.00       0,00                 0.00      0.00       8.06       8.0       0.00
P00o041        1998 SMALL FARMER DV.                                 75.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      35.19      31.34     31.34
P049289        1998 AR-Social Protec.3                              284.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       6.93       6.93      0.00
P050713        1998 ARMODELCOURTDEV.                                  5.00       000                  000       0.00       3.53       3.53      000
Po00050        1998 POLLUTiON MGT.                                    18.00      0.00                 0.00       6.00     10.76      14.81      1.42
P055935        1998 EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT                  42.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      20.14      20.14     20.14
P039787        1998 GEF AR-WOOrVERSfrY CONSERVATION                   0.00       0.00                10.10       0.00      7 86       1.15      0.00
Po52590        1998 NAT HWY REHABS&MAINT                            450.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    161.15     14828       0.00
P039s84        1997 B.A.URB.TSP                                     200.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     125.89     108.89     20.89
Po40808        1997 N.FORESTIPROTC                                   19.50       0.00                 0.00      0.00      11.36       3.36      0.00
P006052        1997 FLOOD PROTECTION                                200.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     133.37     130.37    126.37
Po00059        1997 AR-Matsnal & Child Hlth & Nutriiton 2           100.00       0.00                 0.00      0.0D      49.18      24.18      0 00
Po00010        1997 PROV AG DEVT I                                  125.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     107.77      69.54     37.56
Po05980        1997 PROV ROADS                                      300.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     214.88     200.86      0.00
P043418        1997 AR-AiDSandST     DCw                             15.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      218        2.18      000
P048821        1997 AR PENSION TA                                    20.00       0 00                 0.00      0.00       3.84       3.84     -0.74
P008040        1996 FORESTRY/DV                                      16.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       5.31       4.48      0.00
PDD8.57        1996 AR-SECONDARYED.2                                115.50       000                  000       000       3710       3710       000
P037049        1998 AR PUB.IWN.STRENGTHG                             16.00       0,00                 0.00      5.50       5.69      11.19      0.00
P034091        1996 AR-HigherEd.R foren                             16500        0.00                 0.00      25.40     29.62      55.02     34.97
P006018        1995 ARPROVDEVTII                                    225.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      26.75      18.25      0.00
P0O8060        1995 MUNIC DEvT 11                                   210.00       0.00                 0.00      2.92      45.19      19.62      0.00
P005968        1987 SEGBAV                                          276.00       0.00                 0.00      10.48     17.20      27.86      8.65
Total.     4415.29       0.00              20.10       50.28     196297     1412.40    286.83
- 78 -



LATIN AMERICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan  l,quity  Quasi   Partic
2000               ASF                        20.00    0.00    0.00   20.50  20.00    0.00    0.00   20.50
1998              AUTCL                        5.22    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Aceitera Chabas              0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Aceitera Genrtral            5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1960/95/97/99     Acindar                     48.61    0.00    0.00   0.00   48.61    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/96        Aguas                        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977/84/86/88/94/96  Alpargatas               10.00    0.00    0.00  40.50   10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50
1999              American Plast               8.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Arg Equity Inv.              0.00    2.79    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00
2000               Argentina SMMC             34.40   12.50    0.00    0.00  30.96   12.50    0.00    0.00
1989/91/96        BBV Bco. Frances             0.89    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/99           BGN                          0.00    0.00   33.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00
2001               BSFE                       20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.83    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99           Banco Galicia                0.00    0.00    0.00  45.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   45.00
1996              Bansud                       2.64    0.00    0.00   0.00    2.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Bco Hipotecario            25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50  25.00    0.00    0.00  102.50
1996              Brahma-ARG                   4.29    0.00    8.50   6.60    4.29    0.00    8.50    6.60
1997              Bunge-Ceval                 10.72    0.00    5.00   0.00   10.72    0.00    5.00    0.00
1996              CAPSA                        6.55    0.00    5.00   18.00   6.55    0.00    5.00   18.00
1999              CCI                          0.00   20.00    6.00   0.00    0.00   20.00    6.00    0.00
1995              CEPA                         6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20   6.67    0.00    3.00    1.20
2000               Cefas                      10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   6.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1999              Correo Argeritino           63.00    6.82    5.18   0.00   63.00    6.82    5.18    0.00
1994/95           EDENOR                       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              F.V. S.A.                    9.00    0.00    4.00   0.00    9.00    0.00    4.00    0.00
1998              FAID                         0.00    2.75    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00
2000              FAPLAC                       10.00   0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00   0.00    5.00    0.00
1992              FEPSA                        1.10    0.00    2.00   0.00    1.10    0.00    2.00    0.00
1997              FR1AR                       10.00    0.00    2.50   7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00
1996              Grunbaum                     6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33   6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33
1995/97           HSBC Argentina              25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Hospital Privado             9.06    0.00    0.00    0.00   9.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Huantraico                   0.00   17.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97           Kleppe/Caldcro               6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              MBA                          0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1992/93/96        Malteria Pampa               2.00    0.00    1.00    0.00   2.00    0.00    1.00    0.00
0/97              Milkaut                      5.63    0.00   10.00    1.50    5.63   0.00    10.00   1.50
78/81/86/87/91/3/6/8  Minetti                 30.00    0.00   14.00  100.00   30.00   0.00    14.00  100.00
1993/94           Molinos                      0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.24    0.00    0.00
1995              Nahuelsat                   10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00  10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99           Neuquen Basin                0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Nuevo Central                1.25    3.00    0.00    0.00   1.25    3.00    0.00    0.00
1992/95           PAE - Argenline              3.64    0.00    0.00    7.27   3.64    0.00    0.00    7.27
1998              Patagonia                    3.30    0.00    1.00    0.00   3.30    0.00    1.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      587.25  117.41  155.05  591.13  562.64   86.84  155.05  591.13
- 79 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999               American Plast                  0.00      0.00      0.35     0.00
2000               APSF                             0.00     0.00      0.00     9.50
2000               Argentina SMMC                  50.00     0.00     37.50   450.00
2001               Edenor SME                      20.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002               EDET                            20.00    15.00      0.00    50.00
2001               Eki                              9.50     2.50      0.00     0.00
2001               Gasnor                          20.00     0.00      0.00    20.00
2000               Hipotecario USCP                25.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001               ITBA                             7.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Conmmitment:     151.50     17.50    37.85    529.50
- 80 -



Brazil
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Projecd ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb. -   Orng   Frm Rev'd
P051696       2Do2 SAO PAULO METRO0LINE 4PROJECT                  209.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    209.00      0.00      0.00
P055954       2002 GoiAs STATE HIGHWAY MANAGIIMENT                65.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     64.35      3.45      0.00
P057665       2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROJECT              68.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      000)     66.00      0.00      0.00
P060221       2002 FoRTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT                85.00)     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     87.88      0.00      0.00
P073192       2002 PROJECT                                         1.0        0.00      0.00      0.00      000      14.46      0.00       0.00
P074085       2002 TA FlnandaleSector                              20.80      0.00      0100      0.00      0.00     20.80      0.00      0.00
P057649       2001 Sergipe Rural Poverty Reduction                 64.35      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     51.31      6.33      0 00
P073294       2001 Rural Poverty Reduclon PmJer5- BA                6.66      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      8.79       2.26     0.00
P050881       2001 BR Fiscai Fin. MgmLTAL                          22.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     22.50      6.00      0.00
P050880       2001 RURAL POVERTY REDUCTIONPRtOJECT -Pi             30.10      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     28.00      0.80      0.00
P050875       2001 Rural Poverty Reducton ProJed -PE               37.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     34.63      4 70      0.00
P050772       2001 Rural Poverty Reducfion Pmodc- CE              202.10      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    160.93     23.00       0 00
P059566       2001 LAND-ASMED POVERTY ALLEVIA nON I (SIM)          90.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      000D     88.24      .1.76      0.00
P059565       2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                       66500      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     40.72     -10.18      0.00
P062619       2000 BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PH~ASE I)              5.05      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.32       0.67     -0.66
P03920        2000 INSS REF-UL                                     43.40      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     42.66      11.26      0.00
P047309       2000 ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROS8tAS)                  0.00      0.00      0.00     15.00      0.00     11.66       2.57      0.00
P039199       2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEP)                      30.30      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     29.60      -0.70      0.00
P050778       2000 PROSANEAR 2                                     80.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     40.40      -9.00      0.00
P00649        2000 NE Microfinance Development                    136.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    124.97      44.44      0.00
P035741       2000 CEARA WTR MGT (PROGERIRH) (SIM)                 15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     13.37       8.47      6.44
P0488819      1999 NATL ENV 2                                     150.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    107.617     70.17      0.00
P050763       1999 SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                           202.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     53.33     -21.67      0.00
P058129       1999 BR- Fundesoole 2                                15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      9.18      9.18       9.18
P043874       1999 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION (EFtL)                100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     81.87      61.87      0.00
P054120       1999 BR- DISEASESURVFILLANCE-l'IGISUS               165.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.50     49.13      45.13      0.00
P038895       1998 BR- AJDS &STD Control 1                        16600      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     125.71    i113.50    58.7i
P038947       1966 FED.WTR MGT                                    155.00      0.00      0.00      0,00      0.00     123.61    123.61      0.00
P057910       1998 BR- SC.& TECH 3                                  5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.08       3.06     -0.54
P051701       1966 BR PENSION REFORM UL                            80.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     10.37      -1.23      0.00
P043420       1966 MARAkNHAO R.POVERTY                            150.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     148.99   `139.38    120.06
P042565       1998 WATER S.MOD.2                                   50.00      0.00      0.00      000       0.00      28.91     17.11      0.00
P035728       1998 PARAIBIARPPOVERTY                               51.00      0.00      0.06      0.00      0.00     29.91      27.15      8.42
P006559       1966 BAHIA WTRRESOURCES                              45.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     25 02      25.02      0.00
P008474       1998 (BF-R)SP.TSP                                    55.00      0.00      0.00      0.06      0.00     52.66      35.26     21.66
P048357       1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                       20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0 02       0 03     -7.30
P043421       1998 BRAZIL CEN.BANK TAL                            166.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     17.17     138.11    155.25      0.00
P006475       1997 RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                               00.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     23.77      23.77      0.00
P048052       1997 LAND RFM PILOT (SIM)                            9.80       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.19       2.19      1.42
P006562       1997 CEARA WATER PILOT (SIM)                        100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     54.06      54.06      3.37
P038896       1997 BAHIA MUN.DV                                    24.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.57       0.57      0.00
P034578       1997 R.PCVWr1Y(RGN)                                  70.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      53.55     50.5s     37.55
P043873       1997 RGS HWY MGT                                     60.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      34.15     32.66     19900
P006532       1997 AG TECH DEV.                                   300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    156.71    156.71     42.93
P043868       1997 FED HWY DECENTR                                100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     80.38     42.56     16 51
P040028       1998 RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                           350.00      0.00      0.00      000       75.00     17.92     92.02     17 92
P006210       1998 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                             0.00      0.00      0.00     10.00      0.00       3.17      4.44      5 00
P037828       1998 GEF BR-NATL. BIODNIERSITY                      175.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     64.50     82.70     58.73
P0O6554       1998 BR (P3R)R.POVERTY                              300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     110.89    110.89      0.00
P006564       1966 BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM -REFORSUS              99.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      18.12     18.12      0 00
P038882       1995 BELO HM.TSP                                    102.00)     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    `18.99     18.99      0 00
P006438       1995 RECIFE M.TSP                                   140.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     21.29     21.29     12.29
P006543       1994 Cwesr Urban Development & Wetb'Resmoue         180.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       000D      3.71      3.71      0.00
BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDUI.
- 81 -



Difference between expected
and actmal
Original Amouunt In US$ Millions                          disbumiernnts'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA         SF        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev d
P006522       1994 ESP.SANTO WATER                                154.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      54.00     13.19     87.19       6.70
P006541       1993 BRWTRR PlN(SPIPRVFED)                          245.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       5.15      4.16      9.31       2.71
PC08505       1992 MATO GROSSO NAT RES                            205.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      15.00     12.12     27.12       0.00
P008454       1992 RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                           167.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      10.00     10.84     20.84       0.00
Total:    5,734.68      0.00      0.00   25.00      17983    2,854.35  1.7345     41.06
- 82 -



Brazil
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997              Guiln3an-Amorim             25.78    0.00   0.00   57.47   25.78    0.00    0.00   57.47
1998              Icatu Equity                 0.00   20.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   12.14    0.00   0.00
1999              Innova SA                   20.00    5.00    0.00  60.00   20.00    5.00    0.00   60.00
1980/87/97        Ipirnga                     29.33    0.00    0.00  57.27   29.33    0.00    0.00   57.27
1999              Itaberaba                    0.00    5.34   0.00    0.00    0.00    5.34    0.00   0.00
1999              JOSAPAR                      8.00    0.00    7.00   0.00    3.00    0.00    7.00   0.00
1995              LATASA - Bruzil              1.33    0.00    5.00   0.00    1.33    0.00    5.00    0.00
1995              Lojas Americana             14.00    0.00    5.00   2.00   14.00    0.00    5.00    2.00
1987/92196/99     MBR                         20.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                 Macedo Nordcste              6.33    0.00    5.00    0.00   6.33    0.00    5.00    0.00
1996              Mallory                      4.36    0.00    0.00   0.00    4.36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1975/96           Oxiteno NE                  10.00    5.00    0.00   0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Para Pigmentos              21.50    0.00    9.00   12.32  21.50    0.00    9.00   12.32
1987/96           Perdigao                    15.31    0.00    0.00   2.00   15.31    0.00    0.00    2.00
1989/95           Politeno Ind                 5.85    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.85    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/00/02        Portobello                   0.00    1.15    0.00   0.00    0.00    1.15    0.00    0.00
2000              Puras                        4.67    0.00    0.00    0.00   4.67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Randon                       6.53    0.00    3.00   0.00    6.53    0.00    3.00    0.00
1991              Rhodia-Ster                  0.00    5.95    0.00   0.00    0.00    5.95    0.00    0.00
1995              Rhodiaco/PTA.                7.50    0.00    0.00   3.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    3.00
1990              Ripasa                       0.00    5.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Rodovia                     27.22    0.00    0.00  47.70   27.22    0.00    0.00   47.70
S.A.I.C.C.                   0.00    2.85   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.85    0.00   0.00
1994/96           SP Alpargatas               16.67    0.00    5.00   0.00   16.67    0.00    5.00    0.00
1987/97           Sadia                       20.50    0.00    6.83  109.33  20.50    0.00    6.83  109.33
1994/95/97        Samarco                     11.70    0.00    0.00   6.67   11.70    0.00    0.00    6.67
1997              Samaritano                  20.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Saraiva                     10.38    3.00    0.00    0.00  10.38    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Seara Alimentos              0.00    3.88    0.00   0.00    0.00    3.88    0.00    0.00
0                 Sepetiba                    32.00    0.00    0.00    8.00  17.00    0.00    0.00    8.00
2001              Sucorrico                    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Synteko                     18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              TIGRE                       13.46    0.00    5.00    6.41   13.46   0.00    5.00    6.41
1996              TRIEM0.00                            0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Tecon Rio Grande             6.65    0.00    5.50   14.84   6.65    0.00    5.50   14.84
1998              Tecon Salvador               3.50    1.00    0.00    5.00   3.50    0.77    0.00    5.00
2001              Votorantim                   1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43   0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Vulcabras                   16.68    0.00    0.00    0.00  16.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Wemnbley                     0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Wiest                        0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00
1999              AG Concession                0.00   15.00   15.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              Algar Telecom                0.00    8.17    0.00    0.00    0.00   8.17    0.00    0.00
1996/97           Apolo                        8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              Arteb                       20.00    7.00    0.00   18.33   20.00   7.00    0.00   18.33
1998
Total Portfolio:      731.43  159.78  133.83  649.28  657.65  131.34  115.53  644.16
- 83 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
2002              Banco Itau                       0.00     0.00      0.00   100.00
2000              BBA                             10.00     0.00      0.00    50.00
2001              Brad Templeton                   0.00     0.00     20.00     0.00
2001              Cataguazes                      45.00     0.00      0.00    40.00
1999              Cibrasec                         0.00     0.00      7.50     0.00
2001              Satipel                         15.00     15.00     0.00     0.00
2002              Unibanco-CL                      0.00     0.00      0.00    150.00
2001              Unisul                          15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002              Univali                         10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       95.00    15.00     27.50   340.00
- 84 -



Paraguay
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
P069269       2002 PY Pilot Community Development zroject           9.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      9.00      0.00      0.00
P039983       1998 4th RURALWATERSUPPLY&SANrTATION                 40.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     32.76     25.80     21.22
P007927       1997 PY-M.HLTHICHD.DV.                               21.80      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      7.41      5 30      1.47
P007926       1995 ASUNCION SEWERAGE                               40.50      0.00      0.00      0.00     15.00     10.12     23.88      0.00
P007918       1994 NTLRESMGMTI                                     50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     21.22     20.71      15.32
Total:     167.30       0.00      0.00    0.00       15.00      80.51     75.69     38.01
Paraguay
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval              Company                                Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic      Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic
Total Portfolio:                0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                    Loan       Equity        Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                  0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
-85 -



Uruguay
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                       disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA        SF      GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.     Ong   Frn Rev'd
P074543      2002 FOOT&MOUTHDISEASE-ERL                       18.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     000      11.07    -7.43      0.00
P070058      2001 PUBUC SERVICES MODERNIZATION TA              6.00     0.00      0 00     0.00     O.0O      5.79     0.19      0.00
P063363      2000 APL OSE MOD&REFAB.                          2700 0o00           0.00     0.00     0.00     24.73    -2.27      0.00
P049267      1999 TRANSPORT n                                 64.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      1.79     0.14      0.00
P041994      1999 UY4BASIC ED2                                2800     0.00      O.O0     0.00     0.00      7.85     5.30      0.00
P039203      1997 FOREST PROD.TSP                             76.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     5.00     43.73    48.73      0.00
P006177      1996 POWERTRNMSN&DISTR                          125.00     0.00      0.00     O.0      0.00     6824     87.34      0.00
P0081B1      1995 UY-HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                15.60     0.00      0.00     0.00      5.00     225      7.25      2.25
POOB173      1994 IRRG NAT RES MGMT                           41.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0o00      008      0.08     -0.76
Total:    40160       000       0.00   0.00      10.00     165.53   119.33     1.49
Uruguay
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval             Company                             Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
1985/92                Azucitrus                            0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2001                    Banco Montevideo                    0.00      9.00      9.00      0.00      0.00      9.00      9.00      0.00
1995                   Consorcio Aerop.                     1.87      0.00      4.00      2.73      1.87      0.00      4.00      2.73
1991                   Granja Moro                          1.78      0.75      0.00      0.00      1.78      0.75      0.00      0.00
1980/88/96             Surinvest                            0.00      0.00      1.93      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.93      0.00
2001                    UMontevideo                         5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.30      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:              8.65      9.75     14.93       2.73      6.95      9.75     14.93      2.73
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                 Loan      Equity       Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commnitment:               0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
- 86 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LATIN AMERICA: Environmenlial Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
Argentina
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America    middle-
Argentina  & Carib.  Income      Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     37.0       516      647                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 7,470     3,680    4,620
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                   276.5     1,895     2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populatlon (IX)                                      1.3       1.6       1.3    GNI
Labor force (X)                                      2.1       2.3       2.0    Ger                             Gross
per                      --iprimary
Most recent eatimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (IX of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (I6 of total population)             90        75       76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      74        70       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              18        30       28
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)             2         9                   Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X of poputiution)  79       85       87
iliterecy (16 of population age 15+)                   3        12       10
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age pop latlon)  111     113      107              Argentina
Male                                               111                106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                            I"'                 105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TItENDS                              100.0
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economnic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                         77.0    141.4     283.3     285.0
Gross domestic Investment/GDP              25.3     14.0      17.9      15.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP           5.1     10.4       9.8      10.8                   Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 23.8     19.7      16.2      15.3
Gross national savings/GDP                 22.8     15.4      13.7      12.7                      ;
Current account balance/GDP                -4.4      1.2      -4.2      -3.1     Domestic       /
Interest payments/GDP                       1.7     .1.6       3.0       35     savings         -     -     investment
Total debt/GDP                             35.3     44.0      51.5      51.4    sai
Total debt services/exports                37.3     41.0     100.2      85.5                    l  I
Present value of debt/GDP                                     54.5
Present value of debt/exports                                455.3
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                -0.7     4.3     -3.4      -0.5       1.9              Argentina
GDP per capita                     -2.1     3.0     -4.6      -1.7       0.2              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.8     8.6     -1.4       2.0       5.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investmnt .nd GODP I%)
(X of GDP)                                                                       20
Agriculture                                 6.4      8.1       4.6       4.8       ;
Industry                                   41.2     36.0      27.6      27 6
Manufacturing                             29.5     26.8      18.1     17.6 o
Services                                   52.4     55.9      67.7      67.7     o .         r    97   es 5     o
Private consumptlon                                 77.1      70.1      70.9   -20
General govemment consumption                        3.1      13.7      13.8                    GDl    -*GDP
Imports of goods end services               6.5      4.6      11.5      11.4 
(average annual growth)                 1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 0.7      3.4       1.6      -25     30
Industry                                   -1.3      3.8      -6.7      -3.2    20
Manufacturing                             -0.8     2.8       -7.7     -3.0    10
Services                                    0.0      4.5      -1.5       0.5     o
Private consumption                                  2.8      -3.2       1.3    '0           ea   97   98 o o
General govemment consumpton                         1.8       0.8      -0.4   -20
Gross domestic Investment                   -5.2     7.3     -12.8      -8.6                  Exparts   l* Imports
Imports of goods and services              -5.8     15.4     -11.7      -. 5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicalors In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 87 -



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     200      Inflation I%)
Domesf prkos
(% change)                                                                    8
Consumer prices                          100.8  2,314.0     -1.2     -0.8     4
Implicit GDP deflator                     90.8  2,076.8     -1.9      1.1     2
Govarnment finance o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                          -2     95    98
Current revenue                            8.1     14.4     19.7     19.7     4
Current budget balance                     3.1     -1.5     -1.5     -1.5              -GP deflator   -0cp         a
Overall surplus/defIcdt                    -2.5    -2.5     -2.6     -2.4
TRADE
(UJSS mNllions)                           1980    1990      199      2000      Export and Impoit lis (USS mii.)
Total exports (fob)                         ..   12,488    23,315  26,244     4,0
Food                                       ..   1,374     2,063    2,322
Meat                                       ..     873      829      933    tO.5._
Manufactures                               ..   3,364     6,952    7.825
Total imports (cfi)                         ..    4,197    25,538  25,157     2
Food                                       0.       .                        oe
Fuel and energy                                   423       730     719
Capitalgoods                               ..   1,338    11,902   11,724       a      .                      l
Export price index (1995=100)               ..       ..       80       88           94  95   go   97  Qs   go   00
Import price Index (1995=100)               ..       ..       85       83                 * Exports    a Imports
Temis of trade (1995=100)                   ..       ..       94      106
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP p)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                9,893   14,727    27,836   31,005    o
Imports of goods anrtd services         13,081    6,954    32,687   32,685   -1
Resoure balance                          -3,188   7,773    -4,851   -1,679
Net income                               -1,609  4,203     -7,473   -7,517       i.      l     "      "      "
Net current transfers                     -101      71       379      287    43
Current account balance                 -4,898    1,641   -11,945   4,909    '4
Financing items (net)                    6,776    1.352    13,146    8,470    4 
Changes in net reserves                 -1,878   -2,993    -1,201     439     -.
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ mltorns)        ..   10,814    27,831   26,465
Contversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)      4.99E-08     0.5       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ mtllions)                                                                Compostoon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    27,157   62,232   145,994  146,395
IBRD                                     404    2.609     8,596    8,789                       A. 8.789
IDA                                        0       0         0        0           G:31.545           C: 5.056
Totaldebtservice                         4,182    6,158    27,900   26,500                               D:11,e33
IBRD                                      71     414       982     1,239
IDA                                        0       0         0        0                                   E. 4,299
Composition of net resource fbows
Official grants                            2      21         6        6
Official creditors                        58     456      1.538    1,957
Private creditors                      6,038     -974     3,478   -4,204
Foreign direct Investment                678    1,836     8,236   10.696
Porelfoioequity                            0      13       -112      15                       F: 95,073
World Bank program
Commitments                               27       0       132      441     A - IBRD                  E - Btteral
Disbursements                             71     405      1,573    1,020    B - IDA  D - Otr mutitaers  F - Private
Principal repayments                      34     233       445      538     C - IMF                   G - Shortatmi
Netflows                                  37     172      1,128     482
Interest payments                         37     182       537      701
Net transfers                              0      -10      591     -219
Development Economics                                                                                         9/131ti
- 88 -



Brazil
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Ameorca   middle-
Brail    Catrib.  Income     Development diamond'
2000
Populatilon. mid-year (millions)                  170.1      516       847                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. USS)                3,590     3,80    4,620
GNI (Atlas method; USS billions)                  8tO.1.    1,895    2.988
Avaragerannual growth, 199440
Populaton (J                                        1.3       1.6      1.3
Labor force (X)                                     t.9       2.3      2.0     GNI          ,                 Gross
per                           pdimary
Moat recant estimate (latest year available, 1 994-0)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty (X of population below natonal povenrt line)  22
Urban population (% of total populatIon)             81       75        76
Lite expectancy, at birth (years)                    87       70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIe births)              32       30        28
Child mainutrlUon (X of children under 5)            'a        9                    Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of populetIon)  87 -    85        87
liliterecy (X ofpopulation ago 15+)                  15       12        10
Gross prlmary enrollment (X of school -age,population)  125   113      107             Srezil
Male                                                                 106             Upper-middlelncome group
Female                                                        ,      105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM 1RENDS
1950     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratioio'
GDP (US$ billions)                        235.0   465.0     529.4    595.5
Gross domesic InvestmentUGOP               23.3    20.2      20.4     20                      Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP          9.1      8.2      10.6     10.9
Gross domestic savingslGDP                 21.1    21.4      19.3     19.3
Gross nastonsl Saving$/GDP                 17.8    18.9      16.1
Current account balance/GDP                -5.5    -0.8      -4.8     -4.1     Domestic 
Interest paymehtalGDP                      2 7      0.4       225      2.5      ms                        Invstment
Total debt/GDP                             30.4    25.8      45.6     39.7      avngs
Total debt servicelexporta                83.4     22.5     112.3     77.9
Present value of debt/GDP                    . ,             45.9
Present value of debt/exports                               403.7
1980-90  1990- 00   1999      2000   2000-04'
(everage annual growth)
GOP                                2.7      2.9     0.8       4.5      3.6              Brazil
GDP per capita                     0.81    1.5      -0.5      3.2      2.3              Upper-middle-rncome group
Exports of goods and services      7.5      5.8    12.0      11.0     13.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990     1999      2000     Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                11.0     8.1       7.2      7.4     lo
Industry                                  43.8     38.7      27.5     28.6 8
Manufacturing                            33.5              23.1      24.0
Services                                   45.2    53.2      65.3      64.0                            to
Private consumption                        69.7    59.3      61.8     62.5    -io
General govemment consumption               9.2    19.3      18.9     18.2 2DI                            GDP
Imports of goods and services              11.3     7.0      11.7      12.1                   r        e
1980-90  1990-00     1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 2.8     3.2       7.4       3.0    <o     A
Industry,                                  2.0      2.6      -1.6      5.0     20
Manufacturing                             1.6      2.1      -0.7   o_
Services                                   3.3      3.0       1.3       3.9
Private consumption                        1.2      5.7       6.1      9.9           f5    as                    0
General govemment consumption              7.3     -1.7      -9.3     -5.4     20
Gross domestic Investment                  3.3      3.4      -3.0      5.0                 rExpoft     *Imports
Imports of goods and services              0.5     11.9     -14.8     13.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the o3untry (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 89 -



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Iflaon (
(96 change)                                                                     2,5000
Consumer prces                                ..  2,947.7       8.9      8.0    .o.
Implict GDP deflator                        87.3  2,509.5       4.3      8.5    1.W
Govenment flnne                                                                   sx 
(X of GDP, Incudes ornentgrsnts)                                                  oa           p            * *
Currmnt revenue                                ..      ..      19.5     20.0             95    De    S7   go    so
Current budget balance                         ..      ..       0.4      1.0                 GDP deflator  _ C
Overall surplustdefict                        ..       ..      -.8      -3.2
TRADE
(USS milliors)                             198D     19          l      2000      Export *nd Import levels (USS mIll.)
Total exports (fob)                            *-  31,414    47,140   53,589     so
Coftee                                      ..    2,656    2748      3,048
Soybeans                                    ..    2,854     1,593     2,188
Manutactures                                ..   19,624    35,312   41,027
Total Imports (cif)                           ..   20,661    49,275   55,800                _            d    e    g
Food                                              1,379     1,65      1,507    2
Fuel and enery.                                   4,354     4,258     832
Cepitel goods                                     5,932    13,570    13,593                   S    E    N    S   E
Export price index (1995=100)                80       81        91        97
Importpricelndex(1995=100)                   65       74       113       118                *Exports     *Imports
Tems of ttrde (1995=100)                     123     109        80        82
BALANCE at PAYMENTS
(USS millDons)                             19QD     1990      19        2000     Currnt account balane to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and serves               21,857   34,815    55,20    84,470       o.-      _ 
Imports of goods and services             27,788   26,708    63,443   72,741
Resource balance                          -5.931    7,907    48,238   4,271
Net Income                                -7,044  -12,523   -18.848  -17,888
Net current transfers                        42      834      1,689    1,521                            I     I    I
Current account balance                  -12,933   -3,782   -25,397  -24,638
Financing terns (net)                      8,990   -5,043    13,634   33,815      -
Changes In net reserves                    3,943    8,825    11,763   -9.179
Memo:
Reserves incluong gold (USSmilrions)      5,853    9,175    35,725   33,011
Conversion rate (DEC, hcaltUSS)         1.92E-11  2.48E-5       1.8      1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                   Compostton of 2000 debt (US$ milL)
Total debtoutaanding and disbursed        71,520  119,877   241,468  236,200                     A7,377
IBRD                                     2,035    8,427     6,822    7,377            G 29,46         C: 1,768
IDA                                         0        0         0         0            3,5
Total debt service                        14,757    8,168    67,522   53,200                                 0D 48.358
IBRD                                      275     1,975     1,381    1,351
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
ComposlIon of net resource flows                                                         .-                       9,932
Offidal grantb                             14       41        62         *-                     *
Official creditors                        825     433        660    -2,037                 -
Prvate creditors                         3,745    -427    -11,828  -32,675                        . 
Foreign dired investment                 1,911     989     32,659       ..                          -
Portfolo equtty                             0        0      1,961       ..           F: 139,275
World Bank program
Commitments                               820      905      1,863    1,593     A- IBRO                    E - Bsatar
DIsbursements                             343      788      1,533    1,692     5- IDA   D - Oter mulastsrai  F - PFvate
Prindpal repayments                        98     1,251      952       887     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 245     -463       580       805
Interest payentsn                         177      725       428      484
Net trasfers                               68   -1,187       152       341
Development Econornks                                      -90 -                                                  9/17/01



Paraguay
-   Latn     Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America    middle-
Paraguay   & Carlb.  Incoms      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (milions)                        5.5       518     2,046                Llfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  1,440     3,680     1.140
GNI (Atfas method, US$ billions)                      7.9     1.895     2,327
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Populatlon (X)                                        2.6       1.6      01.0
Labor force'(%)                                       3.1       2.3       1.3     GNI    I                        Gross
per                   ~~~~~~~primary
Moat recent estimate (lataatyear available, 1994-00)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverl,' line)
Urban population ( of totl population)                 56       75        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        70       69
Intant mortHilty (per 1,000 llvs-birtha)               24       30        32
Child mainutrltion (X of chIldren under 5)             ,,         9       11           Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (1 of populstIon)   79        85       s0
littracy (X ofpopulation age 15+) .                     7        12       15
Gross primary enrollment (%1bf school-age population)  111      113      114              Peraguey
Male                                                112        ..      116              Lower-mfddle-income group
Female                                             109         ..     '114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980    '1990      19n       2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billiona)             ,             4.6  ,   5.3       7.7       7.5
Gross domestic lnvestmenUGDP                31.7     22.9      23.0      22.1
Exports of goods and servicealGDP  ,        15.3     33.2      23,0      20.4                    Trade
Gross domestlcsaevngalGDP                   18.3     16.6       9.3       7.0
Gross national savingsaGDP                  19.2     19.7      11.9       9.8
Current account baiancelGDP  ,             -13.5      7.4      -0.8      -4.0     Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        0.8      1.5       0.9       1.0     saIngs
Total debUGDP                               20.1     40,0      32.5      38.2    saevlop
Toal debt servlcelexporbt                   17.0     12.2       6.4       8.0
Present value of debVGDP                      ..       ..      31.0
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       5..     6.7
Indebtedness
198040   1990-00     1999      2008   2000.04
(average annual growth)
GDP      ,  ,                       2.5     - 2.2     0P.      -0.3       1:7              Paraguay
GOP per capita                     4.6,     4.4      -2.1      -2.8      4.8               Lower-middie-income group
Exportseof goods and services      11:5     -0.6    -16,9     -39.9      -2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1950     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GODP (%)
(X of GDP)                                                                        10
Agriculture                                 28.6     27.8      21.9      20.6       . .
Industry                                    27.4     25.2      26.0      27.6
Manufacturing                             16.0      18.8      13.6     14.4      o
Services                                    43.9     47.0      52.1      51.8     a-     as
Private consumption                         75.7     77.2      81.9      82.7    *1S
General government consumpson                6.0      6.2       8.8      10.3                    GDI    _   GDP
Imports of goods and services               28.7     39.5      36.7      35.5                                   P
(averageannualgrowth)110-90  199040  1999  2000  Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annua Igrowth)
Agriculture                                  3.6      6.8       0.5       4.3     4.
Industry                                     0.3      31        0.9       5.3    20' 
Manufacturing                              4.0      0.0       -4.4      5.7      o
Services                                     3.1     -2.2  *    2.9       0.5 .  20      es
Private consumption                          2.4      3.6      -4.6       3.5    40
General govemment consumption                1.5      6.4       4.2       4.5    s
Gross domestic Investment                   4.8       0.2      -3.9      -4.3                 Export      *Imports
Imports of goods and services                4.4      3.2     -28.7     .12.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The dlamonds show fhur key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared vIth Its Income-group average. f data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
91 -



Paraguay
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(X change)                                                                      25
Consumer prices                                      38.2       6.8      8.9    20
10
Implicit GDP deflator                       16.7    36.3        2.5      8.5    15 ,
Government finance w
( of GDP, includes cu,vent grants)                                               0
Current revenue                                      12.2      16.8     16.2            85    96    97    98    99    01
Current budget balance                                3.5       2.1      0.2                  GDP deflaor  e   CP*
Overall surplus/defFitt                               2.9      -3.8     -4.6
TRADE
1980     1990      199      2000      Export and Import levels (Uss mill.)
(US$ mdllions)
Total exports (fob)                                 1,366     2,673    2,251     5,000
Soy products                                        267       307      286     4,000
Cotton                                              333        62       78     ,0_0
Manufactures                                        408     1.933     1,380    o.000
Total Imports (clt)                                 1.636     3,042    2.837     2.000
Food                                                442     1,061      989
Fuel and energy                                     148       186      173     1 
Capital goods                                       569       505      471        0
94  06   88   97   U8   U    00
Export price index (1995=100)                                                           49
Import price Index (1995=100)                                                               * Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%
(USS mrWlions)
Exports of goods and services               701     2,514     3,287    2,801     o
Imports of goods and services              1,314    2.169     3,533    3,307
Resource balance                            -613     345      -266      -506
Net inoDme                                    -4       2        31        32    -2 ..        1
Netcurrenttransfers                           0       43       171       175     -*
Current account balance                    4018      390       -64      -299
Financing items (net)                       769      -170       180      101
Changes In net reserves                    -151      -220     -117       198     -s
Memo:
Reserves Induding gold (US$ millions)         ..     675       996       797
Conversion rate (DEC, JocaUUS$)            126.0  1,229.8   3,119.1   3,486.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS milions)                                                                    ComnposiMon of 2000 debt (USS milL)
Total debt outstanding and dIsbursed        921     2,105     2,514    2,715
IBRD                                       80      279       182       197                        A 197
IDA                                        45       41        30        28             G: 580            B. 28
Totb debt service                            133     325       233       254
IBRD                                        7       65        32        29
IDA                                          1       1         2         2
Compostion of net resource flows                                                            w     -             D:912
Offical grants                              10       7         0         0                         . |:91
Official creditors                         38      -149       42        89         F s25
Private creditors                          94        -9       94       -18
Foreign direct investment                  32       77        66        95
Portfolioequity                             0        0        -21        3                     E 472
World Bank program
Commitments                                31        0         0         0     A - IBRD                   E - Bilaterl
Disbursements                              33       16        42        47     B-IDA     D- OthermuLiateraW  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                        2       41        25        20     C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Netfliows                                  31       -25        18       26
Interest payments                           6       25         10       11
Net ransfers                               25      -50         8        16
Development Economics                                                                                             9121/01



Uruguay
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Americs    middle-
Uruguay      a Csrlb.  Income    Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       3.3      516       647                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS),                 6,000     3.680     4.620
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     20.0     1.895     2,986
Average annual growth, 1994.00
Population (X)                                        0.7       1.6       1.3
Labor torce(%)                                        1.2       2.3       2.0     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
11Ost rcent estimat    styei  W anIb   9                                          capitas                     enrollment
Poverty (%, of population below,nationl pov8rtlp  .tine)
Urban population (% of total population)              91        75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      74        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              15        30.       28
Chiid mainutrition (% of children under 5)             ,,         9        ,,          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water scurce (% otfpopAletion)  98        85        87
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatlon age 15+)                    2         12       10
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age poulastion)  109       113      107              UwguAy
Male                                               109         ..      106              Upper-middle-income group
Famale                                             108         ..      105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TrRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic rntlo'
GDP (USS billons)                          10.1      9.3      20.7      19.7
Gross domestic'lnvestmentGDOP               17.3     12.2      15.1      13.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           15.01    23.S      18.0      19.3
Gross domestic savingslGDP                  11.7     17.6      13.9      12.5
Gross national savings/GDP                   8:1     14.0      12.4      10.8
Currentaccount balance/GDP                  -7.0      1.8      -2.8      -2.4     Domestic                   Investment
Interest paymentslGDP                        1.2      3.4       1.8       2.1     savings
Total debbUGDP                              18.4     47.6      36.0      44.6
Total debt servicelexports                  1CS      40.8      25.3      30.2
Present value of debtGDP                      ..       ..      36.3
Present value of debtUexporte                 ..       ..     179.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 0.5      3.4     -2.8      -1.3       2.6              Uruguay
GOP per capita                      4.1      26      -3.6      -2.0       2.1              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.9      5.9     -7.4       4.0       4:6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Invastment and GDP I%)
(U of GDP)I
Agriculture                                 13.5      8.7       5.4       5.7    20
Industry                                    33.7     32.9      26.3      26.0 '
Manufacturing                             25.9     26.5      16.0      16.1      o
Servicas                                    52.6     58.4     68.3       68.3    -10                s 9   8 o
Private consumption                         75.8     70.3      73.1      74.5    -20
General govemment consumption               12.5     12.1      13.0      13.0                _GDI       -      P
imports of goods and services               20.6     18.1      19.3      20.7
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.1      2.8      -7.5      -2.6    2
Industry                                    -0.2      1.1      -6.0      -2.1     o
Manufacturing                              0.4     -0.1       -8.4     -2.4
Services                                     1.0      4.6      -1.1      -0.7      N         zc                
Private consumption                          0.7      5.0      -1.5      -0.5                 55    57   98    5o
General govemment consumption                1.8      2.1       0.6      -3.6   .10
Gross domestic Investment                   4.6       6.3      -9.8     -12.7              -   Eports        Imports
Imports of goods and services                0.0      9.8      -5.8      -0.9
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The dlamonds show tour key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 93 -



Uruguay
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                so
(% change)                                                                     40
Consumer prices                              ..    111.4       5.6      4.8    30
Implicit GDP deflator                      54.8    106.8       4.2      3.6    20
Govemnment finance                                                             10
(% of GDP, Includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                              ..     16 0      19.4     19.1            o     so   57    as    g9    0
Current budget balance                       ..      1.7      -1.4     -2.2                 GDP deflator  _CPI
Overall surplus/defidct                       .     -0.1      -3.8     -4.0
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..    1,693     2.237    2,295    4,000
Meat                                        ..     422       673      700
Vegetables                                  ..     192       354      255     oo000
Manufactures                               ..      837       981    1,081
Total Imports (clf)                          ..    1.343     3.357    3.466    2,000
Food                                                95       306      316     1.009
Fuel and energy                                    219       490      462
Capital goods                               ,,     393     1,050      973       0
94   es  99    9?  99   go   0
Export price Index (1995=100)                 ..    105        88       90
Import price Index (1995=100)                 ,,    115        97      102                flExports    *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     .      91        90       89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services             1,526    2,159     3.530    3.880       0
Imports of goods and services             2,144    1,675     3,981    4,149
Resource balance                           -618     483      -451     -469
Net Income                                 -100     -321     -191      -73
Net current transfers                         9       8        70       68
Current account balance                    -709     170       -572    -476     -2
Financing Items (net)                       827     -109      586      647
Changes In net reserves                    -118     -61        -13     -171     11
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)        .    1,098     2,524    2,695
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)        9.1OE-3      1.2      11.8     12.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,660    4,415     7,447    8,796
IBRD                                       72     359       476      552                        A 052
IDA                                         0       0         0        0             :1,917          C.149
Total debt service                          299     987      1.059    1,313
IBRD                                       13      70        96      100                                  D 1,346
IDA                                         0       0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                             E:332
Official grants                             0       0         0        0
Official creditors                         37     104       252       136
Private creditors                         190     -192      -112     856
Foreign direct Investment                 290       0       229      195
Portfolio equity                           -7     108       128      376                   F: 4,500
World Bank program
Commitments                                74      83        93      108      A- IBRD                   E - 8llateal
Disbursements                               4      51        66      134      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Privete
PrincIpal repayments                        6      43        63       58      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                  -2       8         3       76
Interest payments                           7      28        33       42
Net transfers                              -9     -19        -30      35
Development Economics                                                                                          9/21/01
- 94 -



Additional
Annex 11
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer
System Project
Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation
The figure below summarizes the institutional set-up for project implementation. In the following,
arrangements for (i) project management and coordination, (ii) project administration, and (iii)
(national) executing agencies are outlined.
..........................  .. 
Coordination Group - Coordinaci6n Colegiada
General Secretariat - Secretarla General del Proyecto Sistema Aculfero Guarani
Executing Agency - Organizittion of American States (OAS)
NPEU - National Project Executing Unit - Unidad Nacional de Ejecuci6n del Proyecto
GEF/WB - Global Environment Facility - World Bank
Donors/Cooperating Agencies - includes IAEA and BGR. These and other agencies may be
invited to Steering Committeij meetings.
- 95 -



1. Project Management and Coordination
The Organization of American States (OAS) will be the Executing Agency for the Grant and will
be responsible for Project Management through its Sustainable Development and Environment
Unit. A General Secretariat of the Guarani Aquifer System Project ("General Secretariat") will be
established in Montevideo, Uruguay, which will have the function of a project implementation
unit. This Secretariat will be staffed with a General Secretary (Project Coordinator), three
Technical Specialists, a Financial Administrator as well as support staff.
Project Management lies with the OAS through the General Secretariat and through supporting
OAS staff, including a procurement specialist, at Headquarters in Washington, D.C. and country
offices, especially the country office in Buenos Aires where the OAS Project Teamleader will be
based.
The General Secretary - and his staff - will have the function of day-to-day management of the
Project, in liaison with the OAS.
The Project Steering Committee will set the overall framework for the Project and will meet at
least twice a year to provide directions. It will be composed of three representatives for each
country who will be appointed by the National Executing Agency. These will represent the areas
of Water Resources, Foreign Affairs, and the Environment. The National Executing Agencies are
(i) Argentina - Ministerio de Infraestructura y Vivienda, Subsecretaria de Recursos Hidricos, (ii)
Brazil - Agencia Nacional de Aguas, (iii) Paraguay - Secretaria del Ambiente - Direcci6n General
de Protecci6n y Conservaci6n de Recursos Hidricos, (iv) Uruguay - Ministerio de Transportes y
Obras Nblicas, Direcci6n Nacional de Hidrografla. The Project Steering Committee will have a
rotational chairmanship. The first chairmanship will be held by Paraguay.
Each Executing Agency will appoint a National Coordinator who will manage in-country
activities, in close collaboration with the General Secretariat.
The four National Coordinators will form a Coordination Group, which will work with the
General Secretariat to ensure smooth operations at the country level. Together with the General
Secretariat they will agree on periodical Operations Plans at the regional and at the country level.
They will be responsible to manage the National Project Executing Units (NPEUs).
The National Project Executing Units consist of stakeholders (national and subnational
governments, NGOs, academia, etc.) who provide advice to the project coordinator, help develop
Terms of Reference, participate in supervision of consultants, and disseminate information about
the project to their respective entities. They may also facilitate project work in their respective
entities. Each NPEU is organized according to needs as defined by the country. In the case of
Argentina and Brazil they will reflect their federal characteristics.
2. Project Administration
- 96 -



Project Administration takes place through the General Secretariat and through the OAS. While
the General Secretariat has the function to carry out the work plan, develop all technical work,
organize work meetings, liaise with the countries and stakeholders, as well as with international
agencies, provide project monitoring reports, etc., the OAS has overall responsibility for this
work. In addition, the OAS is responsible for all project procurement and for management of all
financial funds provided through the GEF Grant, as described in Annex 6.
3. National Executing and Participating Agencies
The National Executing Agencies ensure the selection and participation of key representatives in
the Project Steering Committee. They appoint the National Coordinator and through the National
Coordinator, provide support to the General Secretariat, manage the NPEU, facilitate and support
in-country work and facilitate coordination between countries. The National Executing Agencies
are also responsible for providing counterpart financing.
Participating Agencies are those agencies in the countries, which participate (or in the future will
participate) in Guarani Aquifer Management. They participate in the project by providing access
to data and, where applicable, to their facilities, sending representatives to project meetings,
disseminating results, implemernting monitoring activities when agreed, etc. Participating Agencies
have been defined by each country and a list is provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
National Executing Agencies, through their National Coordinator, are responsible for involving
Participating Agencies in order to ensure project sustainability and benefits through adequate
involvement and consultation. In the cases of Argentina and Brazil, this particularly relates to the
involvement of agencies at the provincial and state levels.
- 97 -



Additional
Annex 12
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer
System Project
Sub-component 3d): Indigenous Peoples Strategy
I. INTRODUCTION
1. The Guarani Aquifer System, underlying parts of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, is a
strategic resource named in honor of the Guarani Indigenous Nation. The main threats to the
resource stem from uncontrolled abstraction, and pollution in the extraction and recharge areas.
Given that groundwater recharge is restricted, and that groundwater pollution is reversible only at
very high cost, if at all, there is considerable merit in protecting the Guarani Aquifer System for
current and future generations.
2. An important objective of the present project is to enhance the knowledge about the Guarani
Aquifer System, including its southwestem border areas, and its characteristics. In order to
achieve the objective of the project to support the four involved countries Argentina, Brazil,
Paraguay and Uruguay in developing a joint framework for the sustainable management of the
Guaramni Aquifer System, one of the main steps is thus to enhance the technical and scientific
knowledge about it. The present project thus focuses on strongly on knowledge creation and
sharing as a prerequisite to developing a management system.
3. The project area covers the southwestem area of Brazil, the eastem part of Argentina,
Paraguay and the northeastem part of Uruguay. There are indigenous communities in the former
three countries, but not in Uruguayan territory.
4. This Indigenous Peoples Strategy (IPS), which is Sub-component 3d, has been designed based
on preparatory studies, consultations and discussions with key indigenous actors and institutions
and other related civil society entities.
5. Because there will be no physical project investments, indigenous peoples will not be directly
affected by project activities. On the other hand, the long-term goal of the project to create a
management framework for the Guarani Aquifer System may eventually have effects on their
rights and obligations, e.g. with regard to registration of new wells. It is thus important to note
that with respect to OD 4.20, the IPS of the Guarani Aquifer Project was not formulated to
mitigate actual or potential negative aspects of other project activities, but rather the IPS
constitutes one of the main mechanisms of the project for the effective and informed participation
of indigenous peoples.
6. Indigenous communities were specifically considered during project preparation following their
expressed wish to be informed and incorporated into the project activities. A consultation has
been specifically designed into part of the Public Participation Component to both inform
indigenous groups in the Guarani Aquifer System region and seek appropriate mechanisms to best
- 98 -



incorporate their views into the project. For this reason, the project will ensure that indigenous
groups are fully and adequately informed about project activities and that the knowledge about
the aquifer which will be acquired during the project will be shared with indigenous and ethnic
groups and communities.
IL INDIGENOUS GROUPS IN THE GUARANI AQUIFER PROJECT
7. The assessments conducted during project preparation basically coincide in the following:
*     Preparatory studies have shown that indigenous peoples live in the Guarani System area in
general and in case of the pilol: projects, in the Paraguay area. There are no indigenous peoples in
the pilot areas of Argentina/Uruguay or Uruguay/Brazil or in the Ribeirao Preto pilot areas.
*     In all of the countries, ithe indigenous settlements and reserves are undergoing severe
problems of land demarcation and border identification. The expansion of agriculture, forestry and
mining activities are the main threats imposed from outside. Accompanying these physical
threats, indigenous peoples' original values and traditions are being lost in the face of a much
more complex network of social factors;
*     In general, due to land use tradition and subsistence cultures, the environment is more
protected in the reserves and the level of impact on water and soil is much lower than among
exogenous farmers;
*     In most regions of the Guarani Aquifer System, indigenous peoples do not use its waters
(see Table A12-1 below), but ihis needs to be investigated more in-depth during the project;
*     The perception of natuwal elements and especially of the cosmology and meaning of water
and groundwater is almost religious and beyond non-indigenous approaches;
*     In each country there is at least one institution that is responsible for mediating and
interacting directly with indigenous communities;
*     There are numerous non-profit, academic and religious organizations working with
indigenous communities at all levels;
*     In some areas there are strong political disputes among indigenous communities.
- 99 -



Table A 12-1: Main Characteristics by Region/Country
Characteristics              Argentina                    Brazil                       Paraguay
Legal framework and          Law 23.302 Protecci6n de    Indigenoua traditional culture  The constitution recognizes the
institutional representation  Comunidades Aborigenes;    and behavior, faiths and     cultural plurality and rights of
Instituto Nacional de Asuntos  anguage are recognized by the  indigenous people in
Indigenas responsible; includes  urion which is responsible for  articipating in the country's
indigenous representatives and  protecting them and guaranteeing economic, social, political and
representatives of the Provinces; their land and natural resources  cultural life;
Provincial Law sirmilar to  posession (reserves);       INDI (Instituto Paraguayo del
national Paraguayan Law     FUNAI (Fundacao Nacional do  Indigena)
(Province of Formosa);     Indio)
IICA (Indigenous Commnunities
Institute)
Indigenous ethnic groups in the  There are no indigenous groups  II indigenous ethnic groups  4 indigenous ethnic groups of
Project area  (number  and   in the only area that has wells  and 103 indigenous reserve  the Guarani linguistic family:
numnber   of   reserves  if  (Province of Entre Rios).    areas in the States of Rio   Ache, Mbya, Pai-Tavytera and
applicable)                  During project implementation,  Grande do Sul (16 reserve  Ava Guarani; communal
it will be investigated which  areas), Santa Catarina (4),  settlements with land
provinces the Guarani Aquifer  Parana (16), Sao Paulo (4),  ownership.
System covers. In Formosa, for  Mato Grosso do Sul (51), Mato
instance, where the Aquifer is  Grosso (12).
believed to stretch, there are 3
indigenous ethnic groups of the
guaicuriu linguistic farnily:
Toba, Pilagas and Wichi;
communal settlements with
land ownership. There is no use
of Guarani Aquifer water,
however.
Indigenous population and main To be defined in scoping study  Approximately 100.000;  Approximately 21.000 (Pai
populations according to groups during project implementation.  Guaranis are the most  Tavytera - 8,026; Mbya -
numerous, followed by the    4,744, Ava Guarani - 6,918;
Kaingangs (25.500). The      Ache - 639).
groups are Tupi-Guarani
(Guarani and XetA), Je and
Macro-Je (Kaingang, Xokleng,
Xavante, Bororo, Ofay6 and
Krenak), Aruak (Terena and
Pareci), Karib (Bakairi) and
Guaikuru (Kadiw6u).
Environmental features and main No information available regarding Besides the fact that in some areas Same characteristics as in
conflicts  related  to  water Guarani Aquifer due to very  and-use pattems from the vicinity  Brazil
resources                  limited amount of wells (6), only in are replicated, indigenous areas are
one province (Entre Rios)    in general more conserved;.
deforestation, organic
contamination of surface waters,
displacement due to dam
construcfon
Types of water supply       Surface waters, springs, shallow  Surface waters, springs, shallow  Surface waters, springs, shallow
large-diameter wells (Province of  and tube wells          large-diameter wells
Fornosa)
Direct impacts on the aquifer  Very little (to be investigated  Little to moderate;    Very little;
and identified conflicts    through scoping study during  reserves are located in      reserves are located in
project implementation)      outcropping andtor recharge  outcropping and/or recharge
areas; some 100 wells drilled  areas
by FUNASA (National Health
Foundation) in unknown
conditions (possible
maintenance problems);
marketing of Guarani Aquifer
water intended in one locality
- 100 -



M. ACTIONS PLANNED FOR INDIGENOUS PEOPLES PARTICIPATION
8. State institutions that address indigenous issues in each country will be the channels through
which the project will infomi and consult. They will be invited to send their technicians to project
meetings regarding public participation as well as technical activities such as well inventory and
monitoring. With this information in hand, they will follow their usual proceedings in
communication strategies towards indigenous communities.
9. Given that indigenous peoples live in the project area in general and, specifically, in the
Paraguayan pilot area, the approach to ensure project participation is two-pronged:
(A)   For indigenous peoples who live in the aquifer region in general:
*     During the first two years of project implementation most of the project will deal with
studies for better understanding of the aquifer as well as providing the platform for the Guarani
Aquifer Strategic Action Plan. During this time, it would be misleading to directly address
indigenous peoples in the project area because there would be no direct activities in their areas
(for instance, wells are usually privately owned or by public water utilities). In this first phase, the
project will make sure, through its national coordinators and the Guarani Secretariat, to keep the
main official state organizations (e.g. FUNAI in Brazil, Instituto Nacional del Indigena in
Argentina, and Instituto Paraguayo del Indigena) informed about project activities such as
workshops and seminars so that they can - in turn - inform the indigenous community. In the case
of Brazil, direct communication with indigenous NGOs and communities, started during project
preparation, will be continued and deepened.
*     In addition, a scoping study will be carried out in Year 2 of the project, which will expand
the information acquired during project preparation, in particular with regard to indigenous water
rights and natural resources management rights and obligations. This study will be carried out in a
participatory fashion, including fieldwork and direct interaction with indigenous peoples.
*     In Year 3, when first project results as well as first proposals for institutional frameworks
are available, direct consultations through workshops and training will be carried out with
representative indigenous grcups and organizations. This will ensure that throughout the project
indigenous perspectives are taken into account, with increasing intensity once substantive
discussions can take place.
*     In addition, indigenous organizations will be able to participate in the Guarani Citizen's
Fund and apply for funding for community level projects (Component 3 c). This information will
be passed on directly to their liaison organizations, as well as indigenous NGOs that have been
consulted with during project preparation.
(B)   For indigenous peoples living in the Paraguayan pilot area:
*     This pilot will focus, in the first two years, on data gathering and modeling of the aquifer
and the recharge area in the western part of Paraguay. At the same time, an in-depth social
assessment will be undertaken in the area, which will explicitly include a focus on indigenous
- 101 -



groups. This will provide the basis for appropriately involving these groups once active steps for
aquifer management will be undertaken in this pilot area. As mentioned in Annexes 2 and 14,
these activities are not as yet fully defined due to the lack of data regarding aquifer vulnerability in
the area due to recharge and possible pollution patterns. Any involvement of the indigenous
people in the area will have to take into account the results of the hyrogeological and modeling
studies. The involvement will include consultations about aquifer management activities, any legal
implications, training, as well as provision of material about the aquifer in local indigenous
languages.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Both the General Secretariat and the National Project Executing Units will play a role in
implementing this subcomponent. The General Secretariat will develop general Terms of
Reference for the studies and social assessments (one professional in the Secretariat will be
specialized on public participation and social issues). Given the diversity of indigenous groups in
the three countries, the National Coordinators - and the NPEUs - will detail the Terms of
Reference for their respective countries and will also accompany the studies. They will also
constitute the main liaison for in-country relationships with the respective indigenous
organizations, NGOs, etc.
V. BUDGET
(A) General Guarani     Information Dissemination                      40,000
Aquifer System Area     Scoping Study                                  20,000
Workshops, Training and Direct Consultations   60,000
Translation of Documents and Dissemination     20,000
(B) Paraguay Pilot Area  Extensive Social Assessment in Paraguay Pilot  30,000
Workshops, Training and Direct Consultations   80,000
Translation of Documents and Dissemination     10,000
Total                                         210,000
- 102 -



Additional
Annex 13
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer
System Project
Root Cause Analysis
1. Background. The Guarani Aquifer System is one of the largest groundwater reservoirs in the
world. It is located under the four MERCOSUR countries: Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and
Uruguay. The Guarani Aquifer System extends from the central-west region of Brazil into
Paraguay and the southeastern and southern regions of Brazil, and into northeastern Argentina
and central and western Uruguay. The Guarani Aquifer System has an estimated total surface area
of approximately 1.2 million square kilometers (839,800 kmr in Brazil, 225,500 km2 in Argentina,
71,700 km2 in Paraguay, and 45,000 km2 in Uruguay). The portion within Brazil encompasses
about two-thirds of the total areal extent of the System, and included portions of eight Brazilian
states-an area equal to that of England, France and Spain combined. An estimated fifteen million
people live within the Aquifer's area of surface influence. (See area maps).
2. Issues. Legal and regulatory mechanisms for the management of groundwater resources are
lacking throughout the MERCOSUR region. Both in Argentina and Brazil, for instance,
significant pollution of shallow groundwater resources is occurring, although, due to its
significant average depth, the Guarani Aquifer System is not significantly affected by this type of
degradation. However, in areas where the Guarani Aquifer System is close to the land surface,
there are pollution threats posed by the use of the Guarani Aquifer System waters in irrigation
schemes and potential leaking of agrochemicals in highly mechanized intensive agriculture areas.
In addition, it is being potentielly overdrafted with consequent negative impacts on its quality.
The Guarani Aquifer System is a strategic water resource within the MERCOSUR region. It can
be preserved if adequately protected and managed. The main threat to the resource stems from
uncontrolled pollution in exiraction and recharge areas. Given that groundwater pollution is
reversible only at very high costs, if at all, there is considerable merit in protecting the Guarani
Aquifer System for current and future generations.
3. Problems and Symptoms. The Guarani Aquifer System is a clear example of an international
(transfronterizo) waterbody threatened by environmental degradation through pollution, as
defined and included in the GEF Operational Program Number 8. In the absence of a strategic
intervention supported by the GEF, the likelihood of "business-as-usual" prevailing in the four
countries is high. At the aquifer's current rate of use, and considering the growing use of
groundwater for human consumption, it is easy to foresee an increasing threat of pollution in the
not too distant future. The uncontrolled use of the Guarani Aquifer System, without rules or
regulation, can alter its status from that of a strategic reserve of drinking water for the population
in portions of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, to that of a degraded waterbody that is
the source of conflict among the countries. If nothing is done, the future of this underground
treasure could be the same as that of other aquifers that have tended to become both polluted and
- 103 -



over-exploited, at least in certain areas. The global benefit of the proposed project is in terms of
the preservation of this transboundary resource for current and future generations. In the specific
case of the Guarani Aquifer System, there is the opportunity to exploit the advantages of
preventive activity. The project would ensure that, in the face of increasing scarcity and pollution
of surface water sources in the beneficiary countries, this resource will be managed today so as to
be available as a strategic reserve when needed in the future. An important issue to be considered
in this regard is the fact that an international legal framework for the management of
transboundary groundwater resources currently does not exist.
To this end, it should be noted that the World Bank, for example, does not have a specific policy
on groundwater resources. This issue is being addressed in the ongoing evaluation of the World
Bank Water Resources Policy Paper of 1993. It is generally recognized that transboundary
groundwater issues need to be addressed, as projects are often proposed and implemented in areas
where a situation of scarcity and competition for groundwater resources already exists (e.g., in
North Africa and the Middle East). In the case of the Guarani Aquifer System of South America,
the World Bank, through the GEF, could make a significant contribution to shaping an
institutional framework regarding transboundary groundwaters that could serve as a replicable
model in other countries and regions. In addition, the experience derived from this project would
be expected to contribute to GEF and World Bank policy with regard to transboundary
groundwater issues.
3.1 Problems related to poorly quantified environmental impacts. As noted above, the actual
configuration and extent of the Guarani Aquifer System remains largely unknown.
Notwithstanding, problems related to the contamination of portions of the groundwater reservoir
are known to exist, particularly in those areas where the aquifer is at or near the land surface. In
addition, in those areas where the aquifer is being heavily utilized for water supply purposes,
localized problems with overdrafting of the water resource are presumed to exist, with
concomitant potential impacts on economic activities and surface ecosystems that are intimately
linked with the groundwater system.
3.2 Problems related to stakeholder involvement. Problems related to stakeholder involvement
historically have been related to the utilization of groundwater as an altemative water source for
human economic activities, especially in areas where surface water resources are lacking or
contaminated from human activities. As noted above, the Guarani Aquifer System is viewed by
the countries as a reserve of potable freshwater to be utilized primarily for the future economic
development of the basin countries. Notwithstanding, concerns have been identified within the
basin with respect to the utilization of the waters of the Guarani Aquifer System to support
tourism, particularly in the vicinity of westem Uruguay and northeastem Argentina. Such
concerns impact the sustainable utilization of the resources, and indicate a need to sensitize
stakeholders with respect to the nature, attributes, behavior, and hydrology of the Guarani
Aquifer System.
33 Problems related to economic development. Problems related to economic development
include the lack of appropriate regulations governing the exploitation of groundwater resources
for human purposes. Because of the strategic nature of the Guarani Aquifer System within the
- 104 -



context of the MERCOSUR iregion, the need to develop an appropriate framework within which
to support sustainable economic activities, including both current uses and potential future uses of
the Guarani Aquifer System, forms an important issue to be addressed by this project. Such
concerns are best addressed in a sectoral context, with the participation of key stakeholders.
3.4 Problems related to institutions, human resources, and the lack of a holistic
management approach. Problems related to institutions and human resources include the lack
of a comprehensive framework of data acquisition and data-sharing within the Guarani Aquifer
System region. This lack contributes to difficulties in developing and implementing an appropriate
legal and regulatory framework within which to manage the resources of the Guarani Aquifer
System. Related to the lack af institutional capacity are emerging problems related to the lack of
authority to control environmental problems, and fragmented and locally focused jurisdictions that
have failed to bring a comprehensive and cohesive approach to water management in the Guarani
Aquifer System region. Further, some management and development-related actions are
fragmented among agencies and between local jurisdictions. As a consequence, potential problems
relate to the lack of a unified vision of the Guarani Aquifer System as an integrated whole are
likely to occur in the absence of further interventions in the region. Potential problems include
inter-sectoral conflicts over water usage, competing rather than complementary demands for
water, and a piecemeal approach to water resources development in the basin.
3.5 Problems of water quality.    Problems related to water quality include localized
bacteriological contamination and contamination by synthetic organic (agro-) chemicals. These
problems are currently locali2ed to specific areas of the Guarani Aquifer System region, especially
with respect to those wells that lack effective casings.
3.6 Problems of water quantity. Problems related to water quantity are highly localized within
the Guarani Aquifer System, and are related to localized overdrafting of the resource.
4. Root Causes. Despite the apparent proliferation of problems in the Guarani Aquifer System
region, there would appear to be relatively few root causes that contribute to the majority of the
potential problems likely to be observed or to occur in the future in the absence of further
interventions to protect the resource. The root causes of existing and potential problems will be
identified during this project.
4.1 Anthropogenic causes. People almost exclusively have the potential to degrade the Guarani
Aquifer System. Although increased economic development in the region has succeeded in
improving the quality of life for many of the citizens of the region (as intended), rates of
exploitation of the natural resource base have increased. In the first instance, the redistribution of
population in the region has led to increased urbanization, which in turn has the potential to
contribute untreated human wastes and other contaminants to the system. These populations
have also created an increased demand for water and food, both of which affect the potential for
overdrafting the Aquifer-the water being used primarily for potable purposes. Superimposed on
these causative factors are modifications of the natural hydrological regime caused by the
imposition of impervious surfaces on recharge areas, and modifications affecting natural discharge
areas of the Guarani Aquifer System. In addition, emerging demands for "clean" energy for use by
- 105-



the people and industries of the basin constitute an emerging challenge related to the extraction
and disposal of thermal waters. Currently, many of the potential impacts are highly localized, and
there is an opportunity to put into place mechanisms to mitigate and manage many of these
threats.
4.2 Legal and institutional causes. While human land use activities have the potential to
contribute significantly to the potential degradation of the Guarani Aquifer System, legal and
institutional shortcomings may exacerbate these problems by failing to control or regulate human
actions in the area. Existing mechanisms fail to view the Aquifer as a unit, in which actions taken
at specific sites have a cumulative effect throughout the system. While the consequences of such
fragmented institutional mechanisms are currently quite minor, should the situation not be
remedied, substantial and costly actions may be needed in the future to overcome this lack of
regulation, and lack of a holistic approach to ecosystem and economic development.
5. Actions Identified to Address Root Causes. To help in overcoming the historical inertia
inherent in the causative factors identified above, emphasis in project design has been given to
those actions which address root causes that can best be humanly managed; i.e., those
anthropogenic causes and legal and institutional causes that can be modified through planning and
subsequent implementation of corrective actions. Natural root causes generally cannot be
effectively controlled by human actions and hence are of lesser importance from a groundwater
management perspective (although knowledge of these causes is an essential starting point from
which to implement interventions to address human and institutional causes). The following
actions have been proposed to address the human causative factors of potential environmental
degradation of the Guarani Aquifer System.
5.1 Acquisition of basic scientific information and dissemination of knowledge.. Project
activities have been developed to acquire and disseminate supplementary baseline information to
support determiination of root causes (Components I and II), and investigate alternative courses of
action to ensure sustainable use practices (Component V). In addition, a further group of
activities has been proposed as a means of synthesizing and disseminating information gathered
through diagnostic studies. These include, inter alia, activities which demonstrate ways in which
citizens can contribute to the protection of community water resources, which address the need
for public informational programming to enhance citizen participation in the decision-making
process, and which train community-based extension agents to disseminate information on issues
and mitigation measures to citizens (Component II1).
5.2 Development of a holistic institutional management framework. Project activities have
been developed to provide an integrated management framework within which groundwater
protection and management activities can be identified and carried out (Component II). Project
activities in this category include, inter alia, activities which address the needs to harTnonize
technical approaches for data acquisition and share information within the Guarani Aquifer
System region. These activities also encompass the synthesis and integration of the strategic
elements of the foregoing project activities in the SAP, or Strategic Action Program.
5.3 Support to groundwater management and regulatory agencies. Project activities have
- 106 -



been developed to provide directed support to create and strengthen the operational capabilities
of institutions, committees, and related civic organizations within the Guarani Aquifer System
region. These activities include, inter alia, activities which promote the establishment of a
framework to promote stakehol[der involvement and participation (Component HI), and refine and
strengthen the role of the existing agencies within the basin through twinning and other capacity
building activities (Component It).
5.4 Assessment of emerging: concerns. Finally, project activities have been developed to
provide a thorough consideration of the use of the Aquifer for geothermal energy production, an
emerging issue that is related to human use of the Guarani Aquifer System and its water reserves
(Component VI). These activities will inform decisions relating to the potential future
development and use of the Guarani Aquifer System for human purposes, including their
economic, technical, and environmental dimensions.
6. Concluding remarks. Significant progress has been made in the definition of issues and
problems (and their root causes in some instances) within the Guarani Aquifer System region
during the project preparation phase. Work proposed under the GEF International Waters focal
area builds on this progress in seeking to extend region-wide actions to the local community. This
work is predicated upon the principles of civic involvement, public participation, and responsible
governmental action at all levels of government, and embodies a comprehensive program of
research, demonstration projecls, and information dissemination designed to identify a framework
for subsequent preventive and remedial measures and management actions that will result in the
sustainable economic development of this region.
-107 -



Additional
Annex 14
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer
System Project
Strategic Action Program
1.    The GEF Process. The GEF International Waters (IW) Projects often follow a logical
sequence of diagnosis and analysis, culminating in the preparation of an agreed program of
strategic actions to address common transboundary issues of concern. To this end, GEF IW
projects often begin with the GEF Implementing Agencies assisting the cooperating countries in
undertaking strategic work that focuses on joint fact-finding. Consistent with the Operation
Strategy (OP), the joint fact-finding encourages collaborating countries to institute interninisterial
technical teams to assemble informnation on water-related problems and conflicts in the basin, and
to share this information with counterparts from other countries within the multinational basin.
Such information forms the basis for defining and quantifying shared, transboundary concerns.
Such concems are documented in a Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA) that contains the
facts of the actual or likely future issues of concern, conflicts, and problems. These facts and the
associated diagnostic analysis facilitate identification of the root causes of the concerns, conflicts,
and problems, and enables actions to resolve shared issues of concem. A key element in
developing actions to resolve water-related conflicts, disputes, and problems is the involvement of
stakeholders; the principal actors involved in water use and management having been identified as
an element of the TDA. This collaborative, factual analysis is essential to the process of
determining priorities for action, and is the first step in formulating a Strategic Program of
Actions (SAP) designed to address the root causes of the concerns in an effective and
collaborative manner. The TDA-SAP process has been adopted by the GEF Council as the basis
for GEF rW projects.
2.    Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis. The process of developing the TDA enables
countries to leam how to exchange information and work together. Inteministerial committees
often are established in each country to assemble and provide factual information on the
country-portion of shared waterbodies. By reviewing and analyzing the data and information
provided by each country, the transboundary nature, magnitude, and significance of water quality,
biological, habitat or other land use-related conflicts, degradation or threats can be determined
and prioritized. This review and analysis provides an objective basis for the countries to jointly
assign relative degrees of concern to the issues identified, and separate those issues that are of
joint concem from those that are of national concern. In addition, the root causes of the conflicts
or degradation, and relevant social issues, can be identified. This analysis will also enable the
identification of key stakeholders and communities. While social and societal concerns are
identified and quantified to the extent possible, the TDA is intended to be a technical document,
prepared by the scientific community within the countries participating in the GEF IW project.
3.    The TDA process provides the opportunity for the countries to identify and understand
the linkages between problems and their root causes. By categorizing these causes within specific
- 108 -



economic sectors, this analysis permiits the active participation and engagement of key
stakeholders. This enables the preparation of holistic, comprehensive, cost-effective solutions for
complex transboundary problems. It also enables these problems to be defined in terms of
manageable elements, linked to specific and identifiable geographic localities, or "hot spots", that
can be readily prioritized in terms of an agreed system of prioritization developed by the
collaborating countries.
4.    Strategic Action Program. The resulting actions required to address priority
transboundary issues of concern, identified through the TDA process, are further developed and
articulated within the Strategic Action Program. This program sets out a series of agreed actions
needed to minimize or mitigate identified water quality, biological, habitat or other land
use-related conflicts, degradation or threats within specific economic sectors and in specific
geographic locations. These aclions generally include specific policy, legal, and institutional
actions, reforms and investments on a multicountry and national basis. These specific actions
generally are developed at the country level, often through the interministerial committees with
the active participation of stakeholders at the national and subnational levels, that are
subsequently compiled and agreed at the multicountry level. In most cases, the development of
multicountry strategic action programs complement specific action plans developed by the
collaborating countries. These latter plans, individual national action plans (NAPs), form the
national commitment of the couantries to the implementation of strategic actions necessary to bring
about the sustainable development and utilization of shared, transboundary resources. Such
country-level actions, in turn, niay be eligible for additional GEF assistance in the implementation
of those additional, or incremental, actions necessary to give effect to the agreed transboundary
benefits identified in the SAP. These incremental costs reflect the various states of economic
development within the collaborating countries, and serve as the basis for GEF IW
implementation projects.
5.    Enabling Activity. In essence, this multicountry process of issue identification,
quantification, prioritization, and action planning constitute the equivalent of the "enabling
activities" identified within the other GEF focal areas. Enabling activities are those fundamental
steps that must be taken in order for collaborating countries to address priority concerns
established by the conventions. To this end, the SAP forms an important and essential step in
identifying country-driven commitments to action that may reduce the risk of failure of
subsequent GEF interventions rthat assist in the implementation of country-driven actions.
6.    Monitoring and Evaluation. A final step in the GEF process is that of monitoring of
project implementation, which allows project management to take appropriate corrective actions
during the course of the conduct of project activities, and evaluation, which measures project
performance, efficiency, and inmpact against pre-determined milestones or indicators. Evaluation
indicators are generally set forth in the Logical Framework as a part of project design.
7.    Guarani Aquifer System Project. As noted previously, the primary outcome of the
project will be an agreed Strategic Action Program, consistent with the GEF process outlined
above. This program will be based upon a sound technical and scientific process of data
acquisition, sharing, and analysis, setting forth issues of transboundary concern. To this end, an
- 109-



operational system of data acquisition and data-sharing is an integral part of the Guarani
Project-contained within Components I and II of the proposed GEF IW project. Because of the
close linkage between the technical analysis (TDA) and the resultant priority, strategic actions
necessary to address the root causes of agreed multicountry concerns, the identification of
regionally-appropriate, cost-effective mitigation and management measures (Component V),
acceptable to basin communities and key stakeholders (see Component III), also form critical
elements of the Guarani Aquifer System project. In order to ensure the sustainability of these
management and mitigation measures, and data acquisition and sharing mechanisms, the Guarani
Project also includes institutional strengthening and capacity building (Component IV) as
important activities within the project framework. Finally, the proposed project activities also
recognize emerging issues related to the Guarani Aquifer System, and specific investigations with
respect to the potential development of the Aquifer for geothermal energy, are also included
within the framework of the project (Component VI). All of these activities contribute to the
development of a sustainable multicountry framework for the sustainable management and
development of the Guarani Aquifer System.
- 110 -



Additional
Annex 15
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer
System Project
Public Involvement Plan Summary
1. The formulation of the proposal for the Environmental Protection and Sustainable
Development of the Integrated Management of the Guarani Aquifer System, including its
proposed GEF components, has involved extensive and broad-based participation by
representatives of the municipal/departmental, state/provincial, and national/federal governments,
academic and research institutions, private sector representatives and nongovernmental
organizations. The participation process was facilitated by a series of consultative workshops,
conducted in Foz do Iguacu (Brazil) during January 2000, Santa Fe (Argentina) during July 2000,
Asunci6n (Paraguay) during November 2000, Montevideo (Uruguay) during March and April
2001, Asunci6n during May 2001, and Salto (Uruguay) during May 2001. In addition, a number
of focus group sessions were held to solicit sectoral input from NGOs, in Garopaba and Caxambu
(Brazil) during November of 2000 and 2001, and in Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil) during May 2001;
from the private sector in Florian6polis during May 2001; and, from the indigenous peoples
groups in Brazil (Curitiba) during May 2001 and in Paraguay during June 2001.
2. Approximately 200 persons representing more than 100 institutions, government agencies, and
NGOs, participated in the pablic meetings and provided inputs in drafting this proposal, many of
which are expected to participate in the implementation of the project.
3. A list of those institutions that participated in the public meetings convened prior to the
preparation of this project document, and which are expected to participate in project
irnplementation as well as subsequent public meetings, is presented below. CGovernmental
organizations are categorized as national/federal or as provincial/state government agencies.
Nongovernmental organizations and other governmental bodies are also listed, including state-
(Brazil) and provincial- (Argentina) level governmental agencies. Where the participating
organizations are known by an acronym, the acronym is also shown.
4. NATIONAL AND FED]ERAL GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
Argentina
*     Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto
*     Subsecretaria de Recursos Hidricos -Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n - SNIFUSRH
*     Secretaria de Desarrollo Sustentable y Politica Ambiental- SDSPA
*     Instituto Nacional del Agua y del Ambiente - INA
Brazil
*     Ministerio do Meio Ambiente - MMA



-Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos - SRH
-Secretaria Executiva - SECEX
-Secretaria de Qualidade Ambiental nos Assentamentos Humanos - SQA
-Assessoria Especial para Assuntos Internacionais
-Agencia Nacional de Aguas - ANA
-Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovaveis - IBAMA
*     Minist6rio de Minas e Energia
-Departamento Nacional de Produgao Mineral - DNPM
-Companhia de Pesquisa de Recursos Minerais - CPRM
-Secretaria de Energia
*     Ministerio da Agricultura
-Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Rural
*     Ministerio da Integra,co Nacional - MI
-Secretaria de Programas Regionais Integrados
*     Ministerio da Saiide - MS
-Agencia Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria - ANVISA
-Fundac,o Nacional da Saiide - FUNASA
*     Ministerio das Rela,6es Exteriores - MRE
-Divisao da America Meridional I- DAM I
-Divisao do Meio Ambiente - DEMA
*     Ministerio do Planejamnento, Or,camento e Gestao
-Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais- SEAIN
*     Minist6rio da Ciencia e Tecnologia - MCT
Comissao Nacional de Energia Nuclear - CENEN
*     Presidencia da Repuiblica
-Secretaria de Acompanhamnento e Estudos Institucionais da- SAEI/GSI
-Agencia Brasileira de Inteligencia - ABIN
*     Fundac,o Nacional do Indio - FUNAI
*     Caixa Economica Federal - CEF
Paraguay
*     Secretaria Medio Ambiente - SEAM
*     Secretaria Tecnica de Planificaci6n - STP
*     Ministerio de Salud Publica y Bienestar Social- SENASA - Servicio Nacional de
Saneamiento Ambiental
*     Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones ( M.O.P.C.) - Viceministerio de Minas y
- 112 -



Energia
*     Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores
*     Cooperativa Nacional de Aguas y Saneamiento - CORPOSANA
*     Secretaria del Ambiente - Proyecto Saro - Sistema Ambiental de la Regi6n Oriental
*     Prograama Regional. Piloto Uft
*     Servicio Geol6gico GeWotecnico
*     Ente Binacional Yacireta-Itaipu
Uruguay
*     Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores
*     Ministerio de Transpoite y Obras Pblicas - Direcci6n Nacional de Hidrografia -- MTOP
-DNH
*     Ministerio de Viviend26 Ordenamiento Territorial y Medio Ambiente - Direcci6n Nacional
de Medio Ambiente - MVOTMA-DINAMA
*     Ministerio de Ganaderia Agricultura y Pesca - Programa Prenader
*     Ministerio de Industria, Energia y Minerfa - Direcci6n Nacional de Mineria y
Geologia -DINAMIGE
*     Obras Sanitarias del Estado - OSE
5. PROVINCIAL AND STATE GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
Argentina
*     Direcci6n Provincial de Obras Hidraulicas de Santa Fe - SPAR
*     Direcci6n de Hidraulica Provincia de Entre Rios - Ministerio de Obras Publicas
*     MOSRV
*     Adrninistraci6n Provincial del Agua - APA - Provincia del Chaco
*     Instituto Misionero de Agua y Saneamiento - IMAS - Provincia de Misiones
Brazil
*     Agencia Goiana de Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hidricos
*     Fundacio Ecol6gica de Mineiros - FEMAS
*     Fundac,o Estadual do Meio Ambiente de Mato Grosso -FEMA
*     Companhia Matogrossense de Minera9ao - METAMAT
*     Companhia de Saneamrento do Estado do Mato Grosso - SANEMAT
*     Instituto de Planejamento , de Ciencia e Tecnologia - IPLAN
*     F6rum Permanente de Meio Ambiente e Desenvolvimento Sustentavel do Mato Grosso
do Sul - FORMADS
*     Conselho de DesenvoliAmento e Integragao - COSESUL/MS
*     Centro de Desenvolviniento de Tecnologia Nuclear - CDTN
*     Instituto Mineiro de Ge,stao das Aguas - IGAM
*     Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de Minas Gerais - COPASA
*     Fundacao Centro TecnDl6gico de Minas Gerais - CETEC
*     Secretaria de Estado do, Meio-Ambiente e Recursos Hidricos do Parana - SEMA
-113-



Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Hidricos do ParanA - SUDERHSA
Secretaria de Estado de Meio-Ambiente - SEMA- Rio Grande do Sul
Companhia Riograndense de Saneamento - CORSAN
Secretaria de Estado de Coordenagio e Planejamento- Rio Grande do Sul
Secretaria de Estado de Recursos Hidricos, Saneamento e Obras - SRHSO
Secretaria de Estado de Meio Ambiente, Coordenadoria de Planejamento Ambiental-
CPLA/SMA
Instituto Florestal de Sao Paulo - IF
Instituto Geol6gico de Sao Paulo - IG
Instituto de Pesquisas Tecnol6gicas - IPT
SABESP - Companhia de Saneamento B$sico de Sao Paulo
Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio Ambiente do Estado de Santa
Catarina-SDM
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda- Santa Catarina
Secretaria de Obras Publicas e Saneamento - SOPS/RS
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Coordenagao Geral - SEPL/CCPG
Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental - CETESB
Departamento de Aguas e Energia Eletrica - DAEE
Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Economico e Integragao ao MERCOSUL, RS
Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente do Mato Grosso do Sul
Empresa de Saneamento do Estado do Mato Grosso do Sul - SANESUL
Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente e Desenvolvimento Sustentavel- SEMAD, MG
Agencia Goiania de Desenvolvimnento Mineral e Industrial - AGIM
Companhia de Pesquisa de Recursos Minerais - CPRM, Superintendencia Regional de
Goias
Saneamento de Goias S.A - SANEAGO
Delegacia Federal de Agricultura - DFA/MS
Fundacao de Apoio e Pesquisa de Ensino Superior - FAPEC
Instituto de Meio Ambiente Pantanal
Servi9o de Patrimonio Indigena - FUNAI/MS
Companhia de Pesquisas e Recursos Minerais - CPRM, Superintendencia Regional
de Belo Horizonte
Companhia Mineradora de Minas Gerais - COMIG
Secretaria de Estado de Meio-Ambiente e Recursos Hidricos (MG)
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Coordenacao (MG)
Minerais do Parana S.A - MINEROPAR
Companhia de Pesquisas e Recursos Minerais - CPRM, Superintendencia Regional do
Rio Grande do Sul
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Renovaveis - IBAMA, Regional
Rio Grande do Sul
Promotoria de Justica de Caxias do Sul
Companhia de Pesquisas e Recursos Minerais - CPRM, Superintendencia Regional de
Sao Paulo
- 114-



*     Comite de Bacia Hidrografica do Alto Tiete - CBH-AT
*     Comite de Bacia Hidrogrifica - CBH - TJ
*     Comite de Bacia Hidrogrifica M6dio Paranapanema - CBH-MP
*     Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisas Agropecuarias - EMBRAPA, Jaguariuna
6.    LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
Paraguay -- Gobiernos de los Departamentos Alto ParanA-Itapuia-Caaguazi-Concepci6n
Uruguay -- Intendencias de los Departamentos de Salto y Paysandu
7. UNIVERSITIES
Argentina
*     Universidad de Buenos Aires - UBA
*     Universidad Nacional del Litoral - UNL/FICH
*     Universidad del Centro - Instituto de Hidrologia de Llanuras - UNICEN/IHL
*     Universidad de la Plata - CISABA
*     Universidad Cat6lica de Santa Fe
Brazil
*     Universidade Federal de Goias - UFG
*     Universidade Federal do Mato Grosso - UFMT
*     Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais - UFMG
*     Universidade Federal de Uberlandia - UFU
*     Universidade Federal do ParanA -UFPR
*     Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul-UFRGS/ Instituto de Pesquisa
Hidraulica-IPH
*     Universidade do Vale dos Sinos - UNISINOS
*     Universidade Federal de Santa Maria - UFSM
*     Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina - UFSC
*     Universidade Estadual Paulista Julio de Mesquita Filho - UNESP
*     Universidade de Sio Paulo - USP
*     Universidade Federal do Matorgrosso do Sul
Paraguay
*     Universidad Nacional de Asunci6n
Uruguay
*     Universidad de la Repuiblica
8. NONGOVERNMENTAI, ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs)
Argentina
*     Asociaci6n Latinoarnericana de Hidrologia Subteninea
-115-



*     Instituto de Estudios e Investigaciones para el Medio Ambiente
*     Comisi6n Desarrollo Sustentable Cuenca del Plata
*     Fundaci6n Ambiente e Recursos Naturales
Brazil
*     Cons6rcio Intermunicipal de Desenvolvimento dos rios Miranda e Apa - CIDEMA
*     Associagao Brasileira de Aguas Subterraneas - Regional de Minas Gerais - ABAS/MG
*     Associagao Brasileira de Engenharia Sanitaria - Regional de Minas Gerais - ABES/MG
*     Associaq5o Brasileira de Recursos Hidricos - Regional de Minas Gerais - ABRH/MG
*     Associargo Brasileira de Aguas Subterraneas - Regional do Rio Grande do Sul
- ABAS/RS
*     Comite de Bacia Hidrografica do rio Taquari - Antas
*     Associagio Brasileira de Aguas Subterraneas - Regional do Parana - ABAS/PR
*     Comite de Bacia Hidrografica do Rio Araguari
*     Conselho Regional de Engenharia, Agronomia e Arquitetura - CREA/RS
*     F6rum Gaucho de Comites de Bacias Hidrograficas
*     Instituto BiguA / Movimento Grito das Aguas (ONG)
*     Coalisao Rios Vivos (ONG)
*     Funda,co Educacional do Municipio de Assis - FEMA
Paraguay
*     Ceamso
*     Alter Vida
*     Asociaci6n de Ge6logos del Paraguay
*      Sociedad Paraguaya de Agua Subterranea
*     Sobrevivencia - Apoyo Integral a Comunidades Nativas y Ecosistemas
Uruguay
*     Associaci6n Soriano para la Defensa de los Recursos Naturales
*     Centro Interdisciplinar de Estudio Sobre el Desarrollo
*     Grupo Nangapire
*     Instituto de Ecologia del Rio Uruguay
*     Comisi6n Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande
9. PRIVATE SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS
Paraguay
*     Grupo Minero Guarani
*     Hidr6geno
*     Sociedad de Estudios de la Tierra (SETI)
-116 -



Additional
Annex 16
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer
System Project
GEF STAP Review
TECHNICAL REVIEW
Project for the Emvironmental Protection and Sustainable Development
of the Guarani Aquifer System"
Review carried out by:
Edwin D. Ongley PhD.
Emeritus Scientist, National Water Research Institute
Environment Canada
August 4, 2001
The response to the STAP,Reviewer's comments is presented below in italics and is
organized according to num.bering in the Reviewer's submission.
1. General Comments and Overview
This Project Brief (PB) is especially well prepared, comprehensive, and contains all the
information that one would expect in a GEF application. In some respects, the PB is perhaps too
comprehensive as it tends to be repetitive. Also, certain points tend to get lost in the text. Given
the size of the PB (88 pages), it would be improved with a Table of Contents.
A Table of Contents has been inciuded in this Project Brief
This technical review includes a focus on certain aspects that, in the opinion of this reviewer,
require some brief explanation amd which may serve to clarify these issues in the mind of the GEF
Council.
The only significant deficiency in this PB is the absence of hard data on the problems of the
aquifer. This leads to certain atechnical questions raised below. Recognising that the TDA will
deal with this in greater detail, one might, however, expect a brief technical summary of what is
known (and not known) about the aquifer, as a basis for justifying some of the actions proposed.
(refer to section 4 below).
- 117 -



2. Relevance to GEF
This project clearly fall within that set of criteria defined by International Waters. It is particularly
gratifying to see a project come forward that is anticipatory rather than remedial in its major
dimensions. This should be encouraged where important transboundary issues are in play.
3. Objectives
The proposed objective are clearly stated and are entirely appropriate to the nature of the issue
and the range of solutions that are realistic and implementable.
The objectives are well focused in the PB, and are certainly achievable given the caveats and
implementation schedule proposed. The PB is particularly well focused on the scheduling of
related activities and has a realistic view of what is achievable in the timeframe available. The
Project proponents clearly have much experience in this area. There are no objectives that should
be changed and none of consequence that should be added.
4. Approach
The approach to this project (the six [+ administrative] components) is clearly defined and
appears to be technically sound (given the absence of hard technical information in the PB). The
implementation steps and related technical detail outlined in Annexes 1 and 2 seem reasonable.
As noted below, certain aspects of this approach would benefit from some explanation.
a)    The fact that the TDA is not listed in Annex 1 as a major activity seems strange (compare
with the SAP which is clearly noted).
b)    It is not clear to this reviewer how the project components are sequenced relative to the
production of the TDA and the SAP (ref. Annex 2, Component 2) which are, it seems, major
outcomes of this project (one learns this on page 33).
c)    It would be useful to have an explanation of how the substantive components of this
project differ from (or link to) what would be recommended in the SAP (once it is developed). In
other words, some of the components are what one would expect to see in the SAP, but appear
here to be implemented prior to development of the SAP.
For example:
Component One presumably, is critical to both the TDA and SAP, yet neither are mentioned
on page 12.
Component Two: how does this differ from what one would expect as a recommendation of
the SAP, when it is developed.
- 118 -



4.a),b),c) One of the innovative concepts of this project is related to the fact that it does not only
focus on studies and preparatory activities during the four years of its implementation, but that it
provides some action from the beginning in order to maintain and maximize stakeholders' interest.
This is in line with the recommendations at the First GEF International Waters Conference in
Budapest in October 2000 during which it was pointed out that SAP and TDA formulation periods
have been too long in a number of GEF-supported International Waters projects. It is especially
reflected in components I and 5, which will provide more information about the aquifer system and
help implement pilot activities. At the same time, it cannot be expected that within four years
everything would be known, about this large groundwater body, nor that a full institutionallegal
framework would be in place. In fact, the project explicitly states that the objective is to reach a
consensus proposalfor such framework. Therefore the SAP will have to make use of the results of the
different components, which willprovide both lessons learned, identification of knowledge and action
gaps, as well as needs for juture financing of identified activities. The TDA is considered a part of
the SAP process and therefore does not appear as a separate component in Annex 1. It iY mentioned
as a part of the SAP in both Annexes I and 2. It will, however, constitute a monitorable line item of
its own in the terms of reference for the SAP.
d.     Transboundary Issue: 'The transboundary nature of this project seems to be based mainly
on the fact that the aquifer is shared by four countries. However the project document does not
demonstrate that there is, in fact, a transboundary threat or to what extent a common approach to
management is essential. The real question, and which presumably will be answered in the TDA
will be the extent to which threats in one country (e.g. groundwater contamination around Sao
Paulo) have the potential to damage quality and quantity in adjacent countries. This seems to be
assumed in the PB. A common management approach is only required when it can be
demonstrated that a threat in one country constitutes a threat in adjacent countries. If this cannot
be established, then a commorn approach to monitoring and evaluation would be the main focus.
4 d) It has been established through technical studies that clear transboundary issues exist in the
border areas of Argentina/lruguay (well yields are diminishing and some cross border disputes are
apparent due to the importance of these geothermal wells for tourism) and Uruguay/Brazil (pollution
between sister cities across the border). The nature of the aquifer system, i.e. very large volumes of
mainly confined aquifer storage compared to significant - but smaller and much more localized -
volumes of active recharge, mean that there is a possibility that major development could provoke
large drawdowns  with the potential for conflict between competing users. This is the more
significant, given the fact that the most valued exploitation is in the form of 'overflowing geothermal
wells' and conservation of such artesian heads is managerially more demanding than normal aquifer
management.
In addition, the recharge area in Paraguay, bordering Brazil and Argentina, is a potential area for
transboundary impact. These? three areas have been included as Hot Spots to be addressed by the
project. In addition, the area of Sdo Paulo is the one experiencing the most extraction and pollution
in the entire aquifer system area. While it is highly unlikely that pollution in Sao Paulo would reach
the other countries, the technical and institutional assessments have shown that this area can provide
important lessons in terms of decentralized management and monitoring approaches. All four
countries agree that the insti'tutional management framework for the Guarani Aquifer System needs
to be as light as possible, precisely due to its size. Therefore it will be necessary to test wvhich types
of measures will work in border areas and also in areas of significant national importance. This
information has been added lo the Project Brief
- 119-



Other related environmental issues:
e.     Surface and Groundwater linkage: The linkage between this project and surface water
management is important, especially in the context of an absence of common management
practices (especially in water quality management) for the Parana River Basin which is also
common to all four countries and overlies, more or less, the Guarani Aquifer. Also, some
countries, such as Argentina, have very poorly developed legal approaches to water quality
objectives or standards for controlling effluents for surface water. How will this lack of a legal
framework for surface water management affect this much more complex task of developing legal
criteria for managing groundwater? Have the proponents of this project considered what linkages
are necessary between surface and groundwater management at the transboundary scale in order
to ensure success of this particular project? More pointedly, can the groundwater component
proceed in the absence of a suitable parallel framework for surface water quality management?
The linkage between this and other CAS projects has not been made.
A related issue is the linkage between increasing use of groundwater when, in fact, there is
much surface water. Is better surface water management part of the solution? It seems hard
to image that surface water management will not be part of the overall management plan.
4 e) 90% of the Guarani Aquifer System is confined and 10% constitute recharge areas. Thus, given
the geomorphology and hydrogeology of the area there arefew locations where surface watercourses
are recharging the unconfined aquifer system. For this reason the interaction between ground- and
surface water is strongly limited in most of its reach. It means that management can be tackled
semi-independently of that of surface water. One of the results of the project, especially Component
1, will be a clearer knowledge about the recharge areas, which are not completely defined as yet. A
major effort will be made, for instance, in the border area in Eastern Paraguay to model
surface/subsurface interactions. It is anticipated that these results will provide the information
necessary to design appropriate mechanismsfor the interaction with relevant surface water areas. -
An issue of importance is the role and significance of the aquifer system in providing baseflow to
river systems (especially the Rio Uruguay) and sustaining wetlands in Misiones and Corrientes
Provinces ofArgentina, which is an important unknown in terms of transboundary waters, but will be
under investigation in the project.
f.     Perhaps I missed it, but I do not see reference to the determiination of allowable
(sustainable) yield as one of the main technical outputs.
4 J) Given the complexity of this aquifer system, quantity is an issue in some parts (e.g.
Uruguay/Argentina; Sdo Paulo), but less in other - less developed - parts. Based on the technical
assessments to be carried out during the project, sustainable yield estimates would be one of the
outputsfor subareas of concern.
g.     The reference to a GIS system (e.g Annex 2: Component 2b) should focus on an
Information System and not a GIS system. GIS is only one of the necessary tools in such a
system. For example, GIS does not handle documents (required in this project); GIS does not do
decision-support (undoubtedly will be required). GIS systems are poor at numerical analysis and
numerical modelling (required for this project).
- 120 -



4 g) In Spanish/Portuguese, the Information System will actually be called SISAG (Sistema de
Informaci6n del Sistema Acuifero Guarani), for the reasons correctly pointed out by the reviewer.
This has been adjusted in the Project Brief
h.     Beneficiaries: I did nol see any reference to use of the aquifer for agricultural (irrigation)
purposes. Perhaps there is no such use. If there is, then this use should be identified and
quantified, as it may be the most intractable management issue. A related issue is the
contamination of groundwater by agriculture, especially by nitrogen which is usually the most
widespread of groundwater contaminant in America and Europe.
4 h). This issue will be addressed in Component 1.4 (see Annex 1) "Water quality is assessed and
pollution patterns distinguishied in terms of the origin, impacts and ways to remediate pollution ". As
mentioned in the same paragraph, this will also include recharge/discharge areas where irrigation
may play a major role.
i.     Annex 13 - Root Cause - issue is not that WB has/has not a policy on groundwater, but
what are the institutional frameworks that already exist elsewhere and which may work here.
Reference to the UN's transboundary water convention would be useful.
4 i) The fact that the World Bank does not have a policy on groundwater was mentioned in the
context of useful lessons to be learnedfrom this project as to future endeavors in other countries, in
which the World Bank may be involved. It is not mentioned as a root cause. As to general
international legalframeworks, the U1 transboundary water convention is only of limited use, given
that it does not include confined aquifers. As previously noted, the Guarani Aquifer System is 90%
confined and only 10% free, thus constituting a hybrid case, for which innovative measures will have
to be sought. The guidance fiom the Convention will be taken into account as appropriate.
Root Causes (Para 4): these are almost never quantifiable and it would be unwise to offer
this as an output. In some r espects, the "root cause" analysis is less appropriate for this study,
than a "threat analysis" in Ihat the system seems to be not yet severely impacted.
4 i) The correct wording should have been "The root causes of existing and potential problems will
be identified during this project. " The sentence has been corrected in the present Project Brief
j.     Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA). This is a key activity that is too often done
poorly. A high degree of rigour, discipline, and technical oversight, needs to be brought to bear
on this activity. This activity should lead to a "threat analysis" and not solely to a diagnostic
analysis (what, where, when).
4j) See response to commenis 4 a),b),c)
k.     Process Indicators:
*      What is the probability of obtaining a four-country agreement on management of the
Aquifer?
*      "the existence of a functioning monitoring network" - this needs to include an harmonized
- 121 -



monitoring network based upon agreed priorities and using modem principles of groundwater
quality monitoring. (not so easy as it sounds as it includes, amongst other things, international
acceptance of a common standard for data quality).
* While a legal framework is required, an indicator should reflect the willingness of the
participants to enforce this legal framework (legal frameworks are common in Latin America, but
willingness or ability to enforcement is less so).
*      Following the TDA there needs to be some assessment of the capacity (technical and
institutional) of each country to carry out the work that is identified, and what capacity
development may be necessary to overcome any identified deficiencies. As an example, Brazil is
said to have the technical capacity to analyze only 30% of the active ingredients of pesticides used
in that country.
4 k) The probability that the countries will come to a consensus proposal is high. Given that the
final adoption of any legal framework is dependent on the governments and legislature of each
country, the project does not have the actual adoption as one of its outputs. It will be one of the
challenges of the project to design a framework that is light and therefore feasible in order to
increase the likelihood that legal and institutional agreements are followed up in practice. An
important design feature of the project is to include subnational levels of government as well as
other stakeholders (academia and other civil society groups). This is expected to help disseminate
project results and hopefully generate pressure to comply with jointly agreed actions, such as joint
monitoring standards. A capacity assessment was carried out during project preparation and a more
in-depth assessment will be part ofproject implementation.
1. Stress Reduction Indicators
"identified and qxntified water quality threats and their evolution" - should this not be"
evaluation" rather than evolution?
4 1) Evolution in this context refers to forecasts about the future developments of these threats
(stable, increasing, etc.)
m. Environmental Status Indicators:
"implementation of an up-to-date, functioning GIS..." This should focus on an "information
system" and not GIS per se. (or a GIS-based information system)
4 m) See response to comment 4 g)
5. Background Information
Annex 12 (Aquifer Description) - more detail would have been useful. This is very short and
not very complete. Eg. in Annex 12 and 13, and elsewhere, document says that "significant
pollution" is occurring - A fuller description would have been useful. Eg. what is known
about pollution of aquifer - microbiological (municipal, animal wastes)? industrial
contaminants? (See para. 3.5.) Agricultural (especially N); etc. Root Cause analysis focuses
on pollution status and degradation potential (Para. 3). Is this hearsay evidence or hard
evidence? Or does it fall into the category that it has been said so many times that everyone
believes it.
- 122 -



Generally, the PB provides little technical information nor cites informed sources to justify
some of the central claims. This is NOT a major oversight insofar as detailed technical
information is usually lacking in such situations, however something MUST be known about
the aquifer in order to initiate country actions to involve the GEF on this issue.
5. Further information on ihe aquifer characteristics has been added to Annex 12 of the Project Brief
in response to this comment.
6. Funding Level
Relative allocation of funds amongst the various components seems reasonable, although I
personally believe that not more than 10% of the total should be devoted to project management
per se (here, 13%). The total amount seems reasonable given the major activities anticipated.
6) Given the regional nature o,f this project (and large geographical area that it covers, with numerous
local stakeholders) the project coordination activities are considered both critical to the project's
success and necessary to be wellfiunded in order to achieve their objectives. We feel that the proposed
allocation is welljustified based on the needs of this type ofproject.
What is the potential of default by Argentina on promised counterpart funding under this
economnic climate?
The project will be included in the national budget. In addition, a significant part of Argentina's
contribution will be in kind.
7. Innovation
The action of developing an intemational management plan for a major aquifer will be truly
innovative, and will provide a useful example for other similar problems world-wide.
The fact that the GEF does not fund research, the need to gather information and carry out
investigations is an ESSENTIAL part of this project. It is this reviewer's opinion that many GEF
projects suffer because of an assumption that new knowledge is not needed to bring the project to
a successful conclusion. It is gratifying to see that a significant proportion of the budget is
targeted to this activity.
(This summarizes comments which have been responded to above).
8. Strengths/Weaknesses
The greatest strength of this project is the ability to take proactive action against future
degradation tdreats.
In my view, the PB is mainly weakened by the lack of evidence to support the supposition that
there are threats (especially contamination issues) which are transboundary in nature. Also, the
- 123 -



lack of linkage with surface water quality management would appear to be a weakness. Neither
of these are, however, reason to cause the proponents to develop a new strategy - only that some
explanation would improve the quality of this proposal.
9. Conclusion
This is thoughtful, comprehensive, and well designed project. The proponents are to be
congratulated. The risks are transparent and manageable. While some limited weaknesses are
apparent it is highly likely that a brief explanation will put these matters to rest. This is an
excellent example of use of the GEF for pro-active purposes and should be greatly encouraged.
- 124 -



Additional
Annex 17
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani Aquifer
System Project
Component 5: Development of Management and Mitigation Measures within [dentified
"Hot Spots" - Detailed Description
Background
The objective of this component is to establish and test local groundwater management practices,
which will be carried out according to sustainability and environmental protection criteria in
transboundary areas in which conflicts already exist or may potentially arise. The pilot projects
involve the generation and analysis of new and more in-depth data through a broad spectrum
technical, scientific, institutional, legal and educational activities as well as communication and
public participation in selected Hot Spots of the Guarani Aquifer System. The results of the pilot
projects will permit to detail and reorient future steps of the project, and will provide replicable
experiences to the benefit of other localities in the Guarani Aquifer System and other groundwater
areas worldwide.
Component 5 consists of 4 subcomponents, one for each Pilot Project, each one with its own
phases, arrangements and tasks. Two of these, the pilots in the Hot Spots of Concordia/
(Argentina) and Salto (Uruguay) as well as Rivera (Uruguay) and Santana do Livramento (Brazil)
will be carried out through umbrella consultancy contracts, one each for technical/scientific
studies and services, and for public participation and environmental education.
The Pilot Project in eastem Paraguay will be developed in cooperation with the BGR. In this case,
the National Project Executing Unit of Paraguay will define the pilot area jointly with the BGR
and the Guarani Secretariat to maintain coherence with the overall project and in order to define
the public participation, social assessment and environmental education activities, which will be
carried out through the project itself.
For the Pilot Project in Ribeirao Preto, Brazil, the project's input will focus on social assessment,
public participation and Technical Assistance to develop aquifer management structures while the
technical and scientific invest-ments have already been made or are on-going through in-country
and bilateral arrangements.
The integration of the actions in the case of all contracts will be defined in their respective TORs.
It will be the responsibility of the Guarani Secretariat, in close cooperation with the national
coordinators to maintain coherence and complementarity of the components while making sure
that investments are adapted to local needs.
There is an important interaction between Component 5 and the aquifer system wide Component
1. Figure A18-1 presents the interrelationships between activities of Component 1 and
Component 5 during the implementation period of the project. It also permits to identify the
- 125 -



production of information required through Component 1, which is necessary for the development
of technical studies foreseen in the Hot Spots. The Figure also illustrates the activities and support
that the studies and experiences provide in the pilot areas for the overall Guarani Aquifer System.
This set-up makes clear that through the pilot projects activities, which are more closely linked to
local conditions, information will be generated to define the concrete objectives for managemerit
and subsequent actions at the overall Guarani Aquifer System level.
Figure A180-1:
R                  | t1 .,. 
Protocotsk;el  $     |,=- 
Jo       ~~~*    c MlAssmn
Wor ~    ~        _           *         _    _      Soc Assessment
H~~~~~~~~~~ RI Enoni                          (
0 XiF^-r0               ~     b|    -X~   ns0
I  Lessons  P  ~  ~   1%ontamn on
Description of Pilot Project Activities, Sequencing and Tasks
l.a   Concordia (Argentina) ISalto (Uruguay)
The area, which has numerous deep wells, is subject to major, current and potential hydrothermal
exploitation of the aquifer. It is located on both banks of the Uruguay River which separates both
countries, with its center in the cities of Concordia and Salto and covering territories of the
Province of Entre Rios (AR) and the Departments of Paysandul, Salto and Artigas (UY).
This pilot project's objective is to prepare and test in situ methodologies and processes for the
identification, design, implementation and sustainable participatory management of the thermal
- 126 -



zones of the Guarani Aquifer System in the confined zone adjacent to the Uruguay River in both
countries. The area has been designated as a Hot Spot in light of current and potential
exploitation trends stemming from intensive and diversified uses, which may be replicated and
applied in other similar areas of the SAG. Secondly, the development of the pilot project in this
area is strongly related to the geothermal assessment activities planned for component VI.
(L.a.1) Planning StaMe
The objective of this planning stage is to collect all existing information, perform a diagnostic and
define the groundwork for the implementation and management needed for the subsequent stages.
It will have a duration of six to nine months. It will be carried out in close coordination with
regional activities to characterize the aquifer, such as establishment of a monitoring network and
implementation of a regional information system for the Guarani Aquifer System. The following
tasks will be performed:
*     Management and coordination of the pilot project's technical, scientific, legal and
institutional tasks
*     Evaluation of existing activities, diagnostic and definition of strategies
*     Preparation of basic cartography and linkage with SISAG
*     Analysis of existing managerial, legal and institutional framework
*     Organization of workshDps and meetings to enable public participation
*     Social assessment
*     Design and establishment of a participatory management scheme
(I.a.2) Development Stage
Development of a database on the local system that is sufficient to provide the basis for analyzing
options and identifying preventive management actions. It will complement the existing level of
knowledge regarding the geology, stratigraphy, hydrogeology and hydrochemistry in the pilot
area, of the current and potential land and aquifer uses as well as sources of contamination. It will
have an estimated duration of 12 to 15 months. The following tasks will be performed:
*     Identification of wells and water uses and sampling
*     Geological and Geophysical Studies
*     Hydrogeological Studies
*     Hydrogeochemical Studies
*     Hydrogeological and Hydrogeochemical Modeling
*     Analysis of the local aquifer sub-system behavior due to current and potential uses,
assessment of their environmental impacts and risks
*     Organization of workshops and public meetings
*     Preparation of partial and final reports for broad dissemination
*     Design and implementation of participatory communication actions
(I.a.3) Management Stage
During the management stage, an analysis will be made of indicators related to the achievement of
project objectives, and actions for their follow-up, linkage and dissemination under the scope of
- 127 -



the general SAG project will be identified. The duration will be from 12 to 15 months, during
which time the following tasks will be performed:
Preparation and development of proposals to implement management measures, actions
and instruments, including
(i)   Development of well protection measures
(ii)   Establishment and/or strengthening of a local monitoring network
(iii)  Development of management options
(iv)  Organization of workshops and public meetings.
*     Design of a pilot project monitoring indicators
*     Design of a project for project dissemination and extension
*     Preparation of partial and final reports for broad dissemination
Total sub-component cost: US$ 1,344,600.
L.b   Rivera(Uruguay) /Santana do Livramento (Brasil)
Located on the frontier dividing Brazil (State of Rio Grande do Sul) and Uruguay (Department of
Rivera), Livramento and Rivera are sister cities with intense exchanges and constitute the largest
urban center in the sandstone outcropping zone, which is located from north to south in the
central region of Rio Grande do Sul and Uruguay, containing Guarani Aquifer System waters
(BotucatuL in Brasil and Tacuaremb6 in Uruguay). Due to agricultural and cattle raising activities
as well as small commercial and service industries, the area has a significant demand for water,
most of it supplied by the Guarani Aquifer System. This has led to risks of localized and dispersed
urban and industrial contamination in the recharge zone.
The pilot project's general objective is to prepare and test methodological developments for the
identification, design and participatory management of criteria, guidelines and instruments for the
sustainable management and protection of the Guarani Aquifer System in outcropping zones and
nearby confined areas, in relation to the potential risks of urban, industrial and agricultural
contamination and of conflicts of use due to intensive extraction. The results and experiences
may be replicated and applied in other aquifer areas with similar characteristics, under the
framework of the integrated ground- and surface water management and of joint management of
quality and quantity
(1.b.1) Planning Stage
The existing data needed for the proposed pilot will be collected, including at least a
climatological and hydrological, geological, hydrogeological, geological, hydrochemical,
hydrodynanic characterization, sources of contamination, and soil uses. Based on such data, a
diagnostic will be made, which will identify the major gaps in technical and scientific knowledge
about the aquifer system and its management in the Hot Spot region. This stage will have a
duration of 6 to 9 months and will include the following tasks:
*     Management of the pilot project's technical, scientific and institutional tasks
- 128 -



*     Evaluation of existinls actions, diagnostic and definition of strategies
*     Preparation of basic cartography
*     Analysis of existing nianagerial, institutional and legal framework
*     Organization of workshops and sectoral meetings and participatory social assessment
*     Design and implemerntation of a participatory management scheme for the development
of the pilot project
(1.b.2) Development Stage
Development of a database oni the local system that is sufficient to provide the basis for analyzing
options and identifying preventive management actions and complement the existing level of
knowledge of the local SAG. It will have an average duration of 12 to 15 months and include the
following tasks:
*     Inventory of wells and uses
*     Inventory of sources of localized and scattered contamination
*     Geological and geophysical studies
*     Hydrogeological studies
*     Hydrochemical studies
*     Conceptual and computerized hydrogeological modeling
*     Analysis of current/potential water uses and risks of conflict
*     Organization of workshops and sectoral meetings
*     Design and instrumeniation of social communication and environmental education
actions
(l.b.3) Management Stage
During the management stage:, an analysis will be made of indicators of the achievement of pilot
project objectives, and actions will be identified for their follow-up, linkage and dissemination
under the scope of the general Guarani Aquifer Project in the 12 to 15 months in which they will
be carried out:
*     Preparation and development of proposals for the implementation of identified
management measures and actions.
Tthis task will seek to identify, design and propose management criteria, measures and
instruments for the sustainable use and protection of the non-confined to confined aquifer
systems, aimed at this resource in the recharge area. As a follow-up action, this task will
seek to identify technical guidelines and regulations, draft laws, decrees and regulations
and other concurrent actions at governmental, non-governmental, user and private sector
level in general. The rranagement instruments to be implemented include:
(i) Development of Well Protection Measures
(ii) Mapping of Vulnerability
(iii) Establishment and strengthening of local monitoring network
(iv) Studies of rnanagement scenarios
(v) Organization of workshops and sectoral meetings.
*     Design of a project to r,nonitor indicators
- 129-



*     Design of a product dissemination and extension project
*     Preparation of partial and final reports for broad dissemination
Total sub-component cost: US$ 1,474,600.
L.c   Encarnman - Ciudad del Este - Caaguazai
The border corridor between Paraguay and Brazil/Argentina overlies part of the Guarani Aquifer
System, between the large development centers in the eastern region, namely Ciudad del Este and
Encarnaci6n. It is a large zone of groundwater recharge, discharge, sandstone outcroppings and
basalt cover with large direct faults, exposed to contamination from biocides and agricultural
fertilizers (due to the agricultural expansion that has taken place). Therefore risk exists due to the
potential of urban and industrial irrigation in the region. This Pilot Project will provide critical
information regarding such areas in the Guarani Aquifer System and address concerns with regard
to its vulnerability to human disturbance. The exact sub-area for the Pilot Project will be defined
by project effectiveness.
The Government of Paraguay, in cooperation with BGR, will conduct a series of specific,
trans-border technical studies with the objective of evaluating the needs and potential for
improved management and the protection of groundwater in a non-confined aquifer, as well as its
relationship with the confined aquifer. These studies will be carried out in the first two years of
the project execution phase and may subsequently be extended to adjacent areas, including areas
in neighboring countries.
This pilot will take place in two phases:
Phase (1):   In the first two years, emphasis will be placed on data gathering, conceptual and
mathematical modeling of the aquifer and the recharge area in the westem part of Paraguay. This
will be undertaken with Technical Assistance from the German Government (BGR -
Bundesanstalt fuer Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe).
Specifically, activities will include
- an inventory of wells and uses
- inventory of sources of localized and dispersed contamination
- geological and geophysical studies
- hydrogeological studies, and
- conceptual and computerized hydrogeological modeling.
The results expected in this pilot project will be of importance in the regional context of the
Guarani Aquifer System since they deal with key areas, with relatively little existing information.
The inputting of data in a database, thematic maps to SISAG, will be ensured by Paraguay's
National Project Execution Unit, in close collaboration with the Guarani Secretariat.
In addition to the above techncal studies, an in-depth participatory social assessment will be
- 130-



undertaken in the area. As outlined in Annex 12, this activity will include a specific focus on
indigenous groups. The social assessment will provide the basis for appropriate involvement of
stakeholders for Phase 2.
Phase (2):   Based on the expanded knowledge about this aquifer area aquired during Phase 1
activities, public education and participation activities will be designed and implemented in years 3
and 4 of the project. The extent and nature of these activities will depend, inter alia, on the results
regarding aquifer vulnerability in the area due to recharge and possible pollution patterns.
Total sub-component cost: US5 552,100.
I.d   Ribeirao Preto (Brazil)
From an environmental standpoint, this area is highly critical. The intensity of the aquifer's
exploitation and the risks of corLtanination in the outcropping region distinguish it from other
zones in Brazil and the rest of t]ie region. The area is located in the northeastern part of the State
of Sao Paulo, in the municipality and city of Ribeirao Preto. The program is of great importance
because of its coexistence in a critical zone, the intensity and diversity of uses, pollution
conditions and the recharge zone, and it is thus aimed at mitigating negative effects on waters
flowing to other regions and coumtries. Therefore, it is a comprehensive pilot program that is of
interest to the four countries.
Significant investments in local aquifer description and modeling have already been carried out in
this area. Using this information base as a starting point, GEF financing will be made available for
the Ribeirao Preto pilot project with the objective of encouraging public participation in the
development of aquifer management in this Hot Spot.
Activities to be financed would include (i) participatory social assessment, (ii) information
dissemination, including education materials, (iii) consultations and (iv) Technical Assistance
related to local aquifer managerment planning.
This pilot project is characterizedi by its strong counterpart financial support, including through
existing bilateral agreements, and high level of accountability for execution and follow-up,
attitudes which had already been taken and faced by federal and state governments through their
management agencies and development programs.
Total sub-component cost: US$ 359.600.
- 131 -



Additional Annex 18
LATIN AMERICA: Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development of the Guarani
Aquifer System Project
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
A.    Project and system objectives
The stated long-term project objective is the sustainable, integrated management and use of the
Guarani Aquifer System. The proposed project would contribute towards achievement of such
objective by providing support to the four countries involved in jointly elaborating and
implementing a common institutional and technical framework for managing and preserving the
aquifer for current and future generations. The purpose of the project's monitoring and
evaluation system is to allow project management to oversee project activities and check on
progress made toward achievement of physical, financial and development targets.
B.    System description
B.1. Conceptual basis
Given the decentralized nature of project activities, adequate monitoring will be essential for
efficient project implementation.  In order to provide effective supervision of activities
implemented, as well as an assessment of the outcomes and possible impact of project
interventions, a comprehensive Operational Monitoring and Evaluation System (OM&ES) will be
established. It will be coordinated by an area at the central level within the General Secretariat
that would be specially created to undertake responsibility for overall project operational M&E.
This special area will work in close coordination with the NPEUs (the operational branches of the
Secretariat at the country level) and other implementing agencies for data gathering, recording,
processing, sharing and disseminating, as well as for project monitoring at the local level. A
computerized Management Information System (MIS) will be set in place to provide the
necessary technical support for efficient data recording and infornation processing and sharing.
The MIS will not only encompass the technical and data processing support for the operational
aspects of project implementation, but it will also provide lateral links to other project outputs like
the GIS and aquifer monitoring systems (described elsewhere) and forward links to the project
Web page, so that the infornation generated would be readily available and disseminated to all
parties involved. Thus, the operational monitoring and evaluation carried out in Component IV is
a horizontal activity that transects all of the project components, including the activity of the
aquifer monitoring system included in Component I, to which is closely linked and whose outputs
utilized for project monitoring and evaluation purposes.
B.2.  System structure
Strictly from an operational point of view, the structure of the MIS would cover three different
areas: prograrnming and administration (PA); physical and financial monitoring (PFM); and
- 132 -



performance evaluation (PE). The OM&ES would enable tracking of inputs and outputs from
project activities, as well as their outcomes. This would be accomplished through the use of a set
of indicators (see Table A19-1) belonging to two main groups, general performance (physical,
financial and development perfornnance including input, output, outcome, process and impact
indicators) and environmental performance (including stress reduction and environmental status
indicators).
The quantitative and tempornd elements of perfornnance indicators, along with the full and
schematic Project Implementation Plan (see appendix A19-1) will allow the executing agency, in
collaboration and coordination with the Secretariat and the NPEUs, to prepare annual operation
plans, budgets, work plans and implementation schedules, and control adequate and timely supply
of inputs, completion of activities and delivery of project products. In addition, during project
implementation efficacy indicators could be developed and used if found appropriate, thus
completing the conceptual basis for the M&E framework. M&E activities would be based on the
first two groups of indicators, wvhile the third group could be developed and used for management
purposes by the unit within Secretariat responsible for the technical oversight of the project.
B.3.  Main activities
Monitoring. Tracking of project activity progress would be based on a group of physical-financial
process indicators (PFM). The MIS-PA module would support preparation of the Annual
Operating Plans (POAs), to and provide the necessary background infonnation to assess
implementation progress. The MIS-PFM module would provide the necessary up to date
information to allow monitoring of project physical and financial implementation, and also to
verify that implementation is consistent with the rules and criteria included in the Project Manual.
Evaluation. Evaluation of overall implementation performance and development impact of
project activities would be coordinated by the Secretariat and its inputs and outputs would be
contained in the MIS-PE module. Evaluation would involve miscellaneous activities of different
scope, including assessment of physical and financial implementation performance based on the
comparison of programmed target and actual values of a set of input and output indicators. This
would be coupled with development evaluation activities based on particular studies focused on a
complementary set of outcome, process and impact indicators, to determine the specific results
and impacts attained by the activities financed by the project. Furthermore, the MIS-PE module
would contain the information regarding achievement of development objectives. Information
would come from two different areas of activity: a continuous evaluation area and an independent
system encompassing the performance evaluation activities per se. Continuous evaluation would
be closely associated to the monitoring system and it would be based on the evolution of a small
group of indicators of "potential development" based on known relationships between activities'
outputs and development impacts. Actual global evaluation of development impact would be
based on a series of studies, including a baseline study, as well as midterm and final evaluation
reports. These activities would allow, in the medium term defined by the project life, to measure
trends toward attainment of the development objectives defined at the outset both for the different
components and for the project as a whole.
- 133-



In coordination with other project-related meetings, Secretariat would conduct annual
participatory monitoring and evaluation meetings with representatives of the NPEU's and other
institutions and organizations involved with the project. This would allow not only ample
feedback about project implementation progress in the eyes and opinions of all parties involved, as
well as provide the basis for a participatory mechanism to conduct adjustments to project
implementation as needed, as well as a mechanism to disseminate achievements of project
implementation.
C.    Management Information System
The system would allow the Secretariat to collect and process information uniformly and
periodically on the set of indicators needed by the M&E system to achieve its objectives.
Indicators would be divided into two main categories: a) general -physical/financial/development-
performance (divided in up to five categories: input, output, outcome, process and impact); and b)
environmental performance (divided into two categories: stress reduction and environmental
satus), plus an optional third category, c) efficacy (divided into two categories: efficiency and
effectiveness) thus providing the conceptual basis for the M&E framework. M&E activities
would be based on the first two groups of indicators, while the third group could be developed
and used by the different implementation sectors for management purposes.
The MIS system and associated indicators structure would help Secretariat: support monitoring
and evaluation efforts of the executing institutions; compile and prepare reports required by the
Bank for administrative and monitoring purposes; and produce implementation progress reports
that would be submitted to the Bank twice a year, in time for the biannual Bank supervision
missions.
Project monitoring. The Project Monitoring Plan would be based on the POAs. Besides,
diagrammatic POAs will be produced based on the structure agreed for the schematic Project
Implementation Plan, and would basically show in matrix format, the tasks planned for
implementation during the year, the period during which each task would be implemented, the
timing and amount of physical output expected from each task, as well as the timing and amount
of expenditures associated with each task. Based on this tool, the Secretariat will be able on a
monthly basis to review physical and financial implementation progress with the NPEUs, and take
corrective actions as necessary.
Evaluation of Project Implementation and Impact Performance. The evaluation of the overall
implementation performance and development impact of the project would be coordinated by the
Secretariat. It would involve different areas of activity, including; evaluation of project
implementation performance, and both continuous and global evaluation of development impact.
In all, these activities would entail the assessment of physical and financial implementation
performance based on input, output and outcome indicators, coupled with specific evaluations
based on a complementary set of performance indicators, to determine the specific outcomes and
impacts attained by the activities to be financed by the project.
Information regarding attainment of development objectives would come from two different areas
- 134-



of activity: a continuous evaluation area and an independent system encompassing the
performance evaluation activilies per se. Continuous evaluation would be closely associated to
the monitoring system and it would be based on the evolution of a small group of indicators of
'potential development" bawed on known relationships between activities' outputs and
development impacts. Based on the information about these indicators the MIS would allow
assessment of the project's ability to achieve its proposed development objectives. Actual
evaluation of development impact would be based on a series of studies, including a baseline, a
midterm and a final evaluation study. These activities would allow, in the medium term defined
by the project life, to measure trends toward attainment of the development objectives defined at
the outset both for the different sub-components and for the project as a whole.
A list of basic physical implementation performance indicators to be monitored is provided in
Table A20-1. Based on the set, a sub-group of selected key indicators would be developed,
agreed upon during negotiations and included in the Project Implementation Letter. In addition, it
is expected that initially undefined targets as well as other indicators and their targets will also be
defined during project implementation, as results from the studies financed become available and
consensus is reached with regards to new lines of action and goals to be pursued.
System reporting: The Secretariat would be responsible for the preparation of the following types
of progress reports:
Annual budget and work plans would be produced, no later than December 15 of each year,
describing all project activities to be done in the subsequent year along with their corresponding
budgets.
Semiannual reports on all project activities in the previous six months would be produced no later
than July 15 of each year. The reports would have a format and coverage acceptable to the Bank,
including presentation of projecl: implementation indicators. The reports would basically contain a
physical and financial analysis along with an update of input, output and outcome indicators,
stemming from a synthesis of MIS data, indicating implementation progress to June 30.
Annual reviews would be produced no later than January 31 of each year. The annual review
would cover project implementation in the past year (to December 31) and analyze the proposed
budget and work plan for the subsequent year with respect to the project's implementation
indicators and agree on any necessary changes in implementation. This Report would utilize the
standard format of the semiannual Project Progress Report agreed upon with the Bank, but would
include a summary of the status of all Project Performance Indicators; status of specific activities;
compliance with procedures oultined in the Project Implementation Manual; and analyses and
recommendations relevant for optimizing project implementation, based on technical studies.
Project midterm review report. A midterm review (MTR) of the project would be held to
evaluate overall progress with project implementation, to assess results and to define measures to
reorient the project as necessary. Data for the MTR would include all information about project
expenditures and physical implemnentation progress. All data would be complete for the first 24
months of project implementation. Besides the quantitative data, the MTR report would also
- 135 -



include an overall project evaluation and individual program evaluations that would be especially
carried out as part of the review process.
The MTR's function would be to evaluate the project's overall performance in terms of achieving
its expected outcomes. The MTR would assist the govermnents of the four countries, the
Secretariat and the World Bank in identifying positive experiences as well as problems occurring
during the initial years of project implementation. This evaluation would recommend any
adjustments required during the second half of project implementation. The MTR would evaluate
the efficiency and effectiveness of project activities; the performance of the institutions involved in
implementation; management performance; the supervision mechanisms and the MIS; the
effectiveness of institutional strengthening and technical assistance activities; and the project's
targeting mechanisms.
The MTR would be based on the management monitoring reports, the Semi-Annual and Annual
Reports, technical studies and socioeconomic assessments. At negotiations, GOIC and Bank
would agree: a) that the Secretariat would prepare a framework for the formulation of the TORs
for the MTR; and b) to make necessary adjustments in project implementation as recommended
by the MTR.
D.    Institutional Responsibilities and Organizational Arrangements
The Secretariat would have overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluation efforts.
Institutions participating in project implementation would collect data on agreed indicators
regarding the activities they execute. The Secretariat would ensure that these institutions carefully
record the required information in the central database, and monitor the respective institutional
performances in project implementation. They would also be required to submit full periodic
progress reports to the Secretariat, as well as other relevant project information.
The new centralized MIS would be developed and implemented, among other things, to collect
and process data to monitor physical and financial progress of the project, as well as data for
ongoing impact evaluation. The MIS would provide the basis for standardizing, coordinating,
processing, consolidating and reporting the input and output data generated by the individual
agencies involved in project implementation.
The new system would have a centralized data storage location at the Secretariat level, with
decentralized data input and access features to avoid duplication of data recording efforts,
maximize system usefulness at all users levels, and promote ownership of and commitment to
recording of up to date quality data. Local level users would be able to use the data they collect
to generate their own specific planning and monitoring information, but still share it with the
central level who would use it for overall project planning, monitoring and evaluation purposes.
The Secretariat would also be responsible for leading the process to introduce any modifications
needed to overcome constraints to adequate project implementation and to guide participating
agencies to adjust their actions. Using MIS data, together with periodic controls on the
performance of other participating institutions, field visits, etc., the Secretariat would have a good
- 136 -



understanding of the overall implementation of the project and its components and programs.
Due to the comprehensive monitoring, the Secretariat would be able to quickly detect slower
performing areas, identify the cause of the weaknesses, and take appropriate corrective measures.
Annual participatory monitoring and evaluation meetings between the Secretariat and
representatives of the NPELU's and other institutions and organizations involved with the project,
would allow feedback fromn all parties involved, and provide the basis for a participatory
mechanism to introduce adjtustments to project implementation as needed.
The MIS would also provide a basis to validate the Annual Plans (APs), and 1icilitate the
introduction of adjustments to those plans and their corresponding annual budgets.
E.    Indicators
Tracking of project activity progress would be based on two different groups of performance
indicators. The following table shows both groups of indicators and their associated targets.
- 137 -



Table A18-1
Basic Physical Performance Indicators
Indicator                      Comp   Unit                    Target
Global Year Year Year Year
1      2      3      4
General Develonment Performance Indicators
Input:
Annual project operating plans produced and agreed upon by  P  #    4      1       1      1
the four countries by the month of November
Proofs of annual national budget allocations, contemplating  P  #  16      4      4       4      4
counterpart funds in agreement with the project operating
plans produced, by the month of December
UNEPs with a min. of one full time staff-person established  P  #   4      4
Agreements with co-financiers finalized and signed    P      #      3      3
Studies for Component 1 contracted to firms           1     #      10      7       2      1
Minimum wells visited and sampled                     I      #    1,000   400     400    200
Studies for Component 2 contracted to firms           2             8      2       3      2
Studies for Component 2 contracted to individuals     2      #     75      16     20     32      7
Computer equip. packages for GIS nodes purchased/installed  2       4              4
Studies for Component 3 contracted to firms           3             5              5
Studies for Component 3 contracted to individuals     3             8       3      1      4
Studies for Component 4 contracted to firms           4             3      2
Studies for Component 5 contracted to firms           5             9      8       1
Studies for Component 6 contracted to firms           6             1 I
Studies for Component 6 contracted to individuals     6             4                     4
TA consultancy contracts for Component 7 assigned to  7      #     12       8      4
individuals
Computer equipment packages for SG purchased/installed  7           7
Output:
Water sample analyses carried out                    IA      #    1,000   400     400    200
Isotope determinations and conclusions produced      IA      #     600    300     300
Workshops on technical issues                        IA      #     10      4       3      2      1
Incremental number of wells being monitored per year  2A     #     184                   36     184
(cum.)
SISAG modules installed                              2B      #      4      4
Workshops on Information System and Well Monitoring  2AIB    #      3       1      1      1
Network
Events - seminars, meetings, workshops- held to improve  2.C  #     9      2       2      2      3
- 138 -



water management (450 participants each).
Twinning Programs carried out by water managers      2C     #      40      5      15     15      5
Short Term TA consulting contracts for Water Mgmt.   2C     #      50      10     15     20      5
Institutions
Training scholarships (program iFees and stipends)   2C      #     50             20     20     10
Workshops and meetings held be.tween stakeholders at  2D     #     12      2      2       4      4
multiple levels, to arrive at sustainable agreements
Bi-annual workshops held for technical discussions,   3      #     32      8       8      8      8
consultations and project progress information and feedback
Grant amounts (US$) awarded to CSOs from the FGC      3      #   240,000  90,000  ?0,000 60,000
Public monitoring workshops carried out               4             4       1      1      1      1
Comprehensive progress reports along with project result  4         4       1      1      1      1
and performance reports, generated and disseminated
International events with participation of project/country  4       4       1      1      1      1
stakeholders
Project annual workshops held after year 2            4             3              1      1      1
Stakeholder assessments in pilot areas carried out    5             4      4
Scientific studies executed within the pilot project areas  5  #   30      10     14      6
Geological, hydro-geological and hydro-geochemical maps  5   #     30             10     20
available via SISAG
Specific sub-regional digital hydro-geological models  5            3                     3
available for decision-making support
Community communication programs implemented          5             4             4
Outcome:
Minimum percentage of all wells with water use, availability,  IA/2  %  70  50    70     70+    70+
quantity, and quality assessed by year 2
Regional hydro-geological maps produced              IA      #      8              4      4
Conceptual Models and Specific Hydro-geological Maps  IA     #      6              3      3
produced
Persons (government/universities/public utilities etc.) trained  2C  #  4,000  400  900  1,350  1,350
in improved water management
Percentage of population in the aquifer region reached to  3       10                            10
heighten their awareness about the aquifer existence and
importance by year 4
Process
Multi-country agreement on the institutional and technical  P (2C)  %                           100
framework for the mgmt of the SAG, reached.
Trans-boundary Diagnostic Analysis, identifying the primary  P (2E)  %
threats to the SAG, carried out:
- initial diagnostic                                                             100
- final diagnostic                                                                              100
Strategic Action Program for the su-;tainable management of P (2C)  %      25     50     75     100
- 139 -



the aquifer, as defined in the PAD, developed.
Consensus proposal for a joint legal framework for the  2C  %.                                  100
management of the SAG set forth.
Monitoring network implemented and functioning.      2A     %                            25     100
Mitigation and management measures regarding          5     %                            50     100
groundwater pollution and depletion in "hot spots"
implemented and monitored.
Impact (initially non-targeted):
Pollution risks diminished or controlled.             p
Overdraft risks diminished or stabilized.             P
Risk of future inter-country groundwater conflicts    P
diminished.
Future mitigation and stabilization costs reduced     P
Environmental Performance Indicators
Stress Reduction:
Operational communications campaign (with a defined  3(B,C,D  %                   30     60     100
percentage of the target population reached) implemented.  )
Water quality threats identified, quantified and their  IA,  %                    100
evolution monitored.                                 2A
Norms for well design, construction and maintenance issued  lB  %.                50     100
taking into account sub-regional variations.
Groundwater pollution and depletion in specific "hot spots"  5  %          50     100
identified.
Environmental Status:
Goals, criteria and standards for the trans-boundary  P     %
diagnostic analysis and sustainable management of the SAG,  (2E)
agreed upon:
- for initial diagnostic                                                  100
- for final diagnostic                                                                         100
SAG Western and Southern boundaries, recharge and    IA     %                     75     100
discharge areas, surge zones and vulnerable defined.
Conceptual and mathematical models of the aquifer system  IA  %                          100
completed.
Up-to-date, operative, shared Information System,    IB     %                     75     100
implemented for trans-boundary information dissemination,
decision-making support, and management of the SAG.
C.     Costs and funding
- 140 -



Component IV costs will total US $ 0.48 million including a US $ 0.26 million GEF contribution.
A sizeable portion of available funds (up to US $ 0.2 million) will be destined to develop and
implement the computerized MIS that will be the backbone of monitoring efforts for effective
project implementation. However, up to 50% of the budget allocated will support information
processing and dissemination of project results within and outside of the Guarani Aquifer System
region.  This effort will enhance capacity of human resources within local and regional
government institutions and promote widespread disclosure of results and lessons learned, with a
view to possibly replicate project results under similar conditions and circumstances elsewhere in
the Guarani Aquifer System region and in other transboundary groundwater areas.
- 141 -



Appendix A18-1: Partial example of schematic PIP
Draft Schematic Projec Implementation Plan
Component I
Pra-                         Year 1                                                  Year 2
elf.1  1  2    3 [4 15       6 17 I6       9 I10 I11 112       1 12 13 14        5    6 I7 18 19        10 _16,17 -12
1- Expand%Conolidete Knowledge  ea SAG
Prepan drft TOR fhr UCI
1.e - Update0l*bemneat CKCS SAG
1.l1-Compmna  Cordinkoa Urit (UCI)                                                    30   30  30   30   30   30  30   30   30   30  30   30   30  30   30   30   30  30
Sadlonhrd UCI
P   npe  doummntb                                    x
Cell bids                                                 x
Saled                                                                   X
ContraetUndtall UCI                                                          x
UCI oper.tion.. .
1.. 1.(Ip Dale lntegem9on end ReWSrelh Plan
Teak lnpleenltion period                                                                                                           .. .... .
CompUibntegrtle =folprnllm. dianoel b                                                                     ,_
Pnrambbiy woe bootonmap m a p
Fiml wai boaon map arnd db for SISAG                                                                                        -    -   _
Interim dlagnosis
FInal dlegnoels. db for model. end (PFA) Antln Plan
11(10 SAG Hydrogelogncaf_y ambC Charertarlzetion
Teak mrwtrtlneotn period                                                                                      .,r ..r.
Regibna hydrI g  io   map                                          _ 
leo-freW aleelkIlCoOdueh y maps. SISAG
1.e 1()- RechargeUrangindlecharg. Stdles
Teak lmplarrenteon varied
Meps based on output fohm 1.a.3
(gregonl Wpotenl rr & fltonetwork)
RehrtvV  dchg e*timele; regonal maps; SISAG 
Tek Imp mentation prIod
Produce rnaps
Regional rn, net nchrgidrr eaemtes (input 0fr l,v,1 .e.6)
I.e 1.(b) Surgnrce Studies
DelmIt urgencreeem, pmdue egional maps nd tech. norms
1.a 1(v)- Conneridon of Freclred Aqulfrm
Tek nplwmentation period
Preliminwry diagnoss and action plan for etudy
Final reponl nd Manegemrnt Plan for onne
1.s.2.- Wed Inventory end Survey                                                              57.7 57 7 57.7 57 7 57.7 57 7 877 57 7 57 7 67.7 57.7 57.7 57.7
Coneot procningt"                                               '
Prepae documenbt                                     _        _
Cat bids                                                                x
S   d be
Contreet                                                                              x
TakI mplrentraon period                                                                            . . .... ..
1      Da2t(1)- ata Compation nd Anatyleb
Workehop: 1ed work ptnle                                                                   a
Inventory and pramWiory db                                                                     -   -     -    -    -    -
1 4.2.(ll)- FIed SurWy (Inpul tr 1 .b)
Compdle eurvey final db nd emple                                                                                           -     -   -    -    -   -
1a 3- Geoloy end Geop  lce                                                                                      95 3 95.3 96 3 95 3 95 3 95.3 95 3 95 3 95.3 95 3 95 3 95 3
Contmrc pnlso t                                              "       '   ' '. "  " ' ' .00 . "" . 0 "" ' ""'
Sabdd and c  rd connsultency to prepa  TORe
Prepar TORe
Prepre doment                            _ 
Cal bids                                                                              x
Sald                                                                                             - -
Contract                                                                                                 x
Teak tmpwnen town p     riod                                                                                   .,                                   , ,
Openhn workshop and Acdon Plan                                       _ 
Tel W & S SAG mIlbe
Data _onpiftion and dlagno                                                                                                      -
Pmoduce maps                                                                                                                              --- - - -               -
map & delIit SAG in Paraguay
Dale iorptlon and dbgnasl
Pmoduca maps                                                                                                                              - ----
SAG trdonbo erucrunr and geonrtry
Date compIoeon end dbtegn_al
Produce maps
Cbretng woithop
Prepare TOR
Contad Teak
Teak Implementain period
Producd prtrnimnry r,port
Produca final report
-142-



IBRD 31623
6s5                          -      0 55                                                               500                                450
PRELIMINARY MAP OF
50          THE GUARANI                                                  Cuiab6 ,I                                             BRASiLA
AQUIFER SYSTEM                                       -
B O L I V I A                          4         
Co                (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cPOrnBl oiot
*N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
Jujuy
__              ~~~~~~Salta                                          ASNJ 19                   pi f0.-urit
25   t                                                                                                                                                                  25AU
-          Fo~~rmon 
XX~~~~~~~~~~~Rsd                                 o       rrierit1s
lSa ago 
C t            0                                                                                                                                                  \    0
A3R        E      TM                                                 N      D                                                      1
130  0      200   3
Ch,otou                                 aI
Cordoba o              naF
BUENO4S AIRE
-350                                                                                                      TA          TC31
0 100   200   300  A00   500 Km                                                                                                                  o,o~d.it~oo
I    I     I     I    I     I                                           K                                                                           oo.w<cdeaomf  ;oi ~.oro
Approximate scale 1.17,000,000
700                         650          F    -                                     550                         500                          450
Notes:
- Schematic map produced by CAS/SPH/MMA (UNPP/Bros,l) opproned by the
Potential indirect recharge areas                                                                 Project Steering Committee Project for the Environmentol Protection and
from surface runoff             J2   Rivers                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sustainable Developmientaof the Guarani Aquifer System (Argenkina, Brazil,
D    from surface runoff                                         Rivers                            Paroguoy, Uruguay - GEF/Wodd Bonk - OASI
f from underground Rows                                      -   Wens- Colored portions represent the areas which, potentiolly, belong to the Guaroni
Aquifer System The aquifer limits are not completely defined in Argentina
Potential direct recharge areos                              -    -International Boundaries           ond Poraguay.
F]   porous regime. Guoroni outcroppings
j   fractured/porous regime. basalts and                         Sate/Province Boundaries
F    sondstornes                                                                                 Sources:
@     State/Province Capitals        - South America Hydroguologicol Moo, 1996, DNPM/CPRM/UNESCO
Potential dischorge areas                                                                        - Guaroni Aquifer Hydrogeological Mop, 1999, Compos H C
*     Natonal Capitals               - Mop of Geological Integration of the Prato Bosin, 1998, Mercosul/SGT2
porous regime: Guarani outcroppings                                                         - Map of Hydrogeologicol Integration of the Pnoto Bosin, under elaboration,
[]fractured/porous regimie basalts and sanvdstones        0    Cities                           Morcosul/SGT2
- Geological Map of Brazil, 2nd Edition, 1995, MME/DNPM
D    fractured/porous regime frelation to Guarani to be defined)                                 - Geological Map of Rio de lo Plato Eosin, 1970. OEA
NOVEMBER 2001









IMAGING
Report No.:        23490  LAC
Type:     PAD



