Page  1
June 12, 2000
César Gaviria 
Secretary General 
Organization of American States 
17th St. & Constitution Ave., N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20006
Re:
Grant for Preparation of the Environmental Protection and 
Sustainable Integrated Management of the Guarani Aquifer Project 
GEF-PDF TF 023823 
Dear Mr. Secretary General:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF to indicate the 
Bank’s agreement to grant to the General Secretariat of the Organization of American 
States (the Recipient) for the benefit of the Republic of Argentina, the Federative 
Republic of Brazil, the Republic of Paraguay, and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay 
(the Members) a grant in an amount not exceeding US$350,000 (the Grant) for the 
preparation of a future GEF funded project for the environmental protection and 
sustainable integrated management of the Guarani Aquifer (the Project Preparation). 
The Grant is made in response to the Members’ requests for financial assistance and 
for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is 
authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said 
terms and conditions.
The award of the Grant does not constitute or imply any commitment on the part 
of the Bank, either as a GEF Implementing Agency, or in its own capacity, or the 
International Development Association, to assist in financing any project which will 
result from the activities financed by the Grant.
The Members, by letters dated March 24, 2000 (Republic of Argentina), April 13, 
2000 (Federative Republic of Brazil), January 27, 2000 and March 31, 2000 (Republic of 
Paraguay), and February 25, 2000 and May 26, 2000 (Oriental Republic of Uruguay), have 
agreed (i) to the execution of the Project Preparation and (ii) that the Recipient 
shall be the executing agency of the Project Preparation.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter agreement (the 
Letter Agreement).  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement 
countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of 
the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani 
Director Brazil - Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
General Secretariat of the Organization of American States 
By /s/ Christopher Thomas
Page  2
Assistant Secretary General
Date:
June 19, 2000
Attachment
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purpose and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Environmental 
Protection and Sustainable Integrated Management of the Guarani Aquifer Project (the 
Project), the main objective of which is to support the Members in the joint 
elaboration and implementation of a common institutional framework for managing and 
preserving the Guarani Aquifer (the Aquifer).  The Project Preparation activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
a) Expansion and Consolidation of Knowledge Base.  The preparatory activities 
for the expansion and consolidation of the knowledge base of the Aquifer include a 
survey on the existence of technical data on the Aquifer, the definition of the 
relevant data required to build up the Aquifer monitoring network and the frequency in 
which such data needs to be collected, and a survey on the actual and projected uses 
of the Aquifer;
b) Joint Development of a Guarani Aquifer Management Framework. The preparatory 
activities for the joint development of a Guarani Aquifer Management Framework include 
the elaboration of the terms of reference for a strategic action program for the 
sustainable development and protection of the Aquifer, a survey of the current 
applicable legislation of each Member, and the institutional assessment of all public 
and non-public agencies to be involved in the Project.
c) Design of a Social Communications Program for the Aquifer. The social 
communication program shall contemplate (i) pilot processes to improve public 
awareness of the existence and importance of the Guarani Aquifer, and (ii) provision 
of formal and informal environmental education, with special emphasis on the 
population residing in the Aquifer’s recharge areas.
d) Implementation of Measures to deal with Pollution. The preparatory activities 
for the implementation of these measures include the identification of possible pilot 
areas in which to carry out pollution control programs, the preparation of feasibility 
studies, and the design of the terms of reference for such programs.
e) Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Elaboration of a monitoring and evaluation 
plan for the Project including the interchange of experiences and information with 
other similar GEF-financed projects.
f) Improvement of Project Management Capacity. The preparatory activities for 
the improvement of project management capacity include the assessment of the needs for 
a management information system and the design of the institutional arrangements for 
Project implementation.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall:  (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant on a quarterly basis or more frequently, as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; (d) coordinate with the Bank’s representatives the timing 
and content of the Activities and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable 
the Bank to visit the territory of the Members for the purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of 
the Activities.
3.
Procurement
Page  3
3.1
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I 
to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for 
such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the Activities are at all 
times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and that any 
repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
     Allocated 
Expenditures
Category
(in U.S. Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
300,000
100%
Services
(2)
Goods
 10,000
100% 
(3)
Incremental Operating 
 40,000
100%
Costs
Total
350,000
The term "incremental operating costs" means expenditures for transportation and 
travel, maintenance of equipment, facility and equipment rental, utilities, materials, 
publications, communications, and small services such as transcriptions, translations, 
digitizing, and security, all to the extent said expenditures are attributable to the 
carrying out of the Activities.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Letter 
Agreement; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of 
any of the Members; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services supplied from 
such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any acquisition of goods, if such payment or acquisition, to the Bank’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after September 30, 2001 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing 
Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the 
Closing Date and received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after 
which t
ime any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled; and (b) if, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any 
of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, it may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which in its opinion 
will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by Heather Alsopp (principal accountant, department of 
financial services, OAS) or such other person as the Secretary General shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures 
of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the 
Page  4
first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that 
the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the 
amounts withdrawn by the
 Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) services of consulting firms 
and individual consultants not subject to the Bank’s prior review; and (b) goods and 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of the Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
(a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Activities.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; (C) a 
management letter from said auditors to the Recipient covering all auditor-discovered 
weaknesses in the Recipient’s internal controls system and providing constructive 
suggestions therefor, and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least after one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals. 
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing:  (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with 
any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of any of the Members, or 
Page  5
any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Members, 
to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the  Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association has been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account:  (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account has been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
has failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within 90 days after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has decided, at 
any time after consultation with the Recipient and the Members, to withdraw its 
support to the Project; or (d) if the Members have withdrawn their request for the 
Bank’s assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely consultants nationals of the Members in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection and Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may (i) 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, or (ii) with the Bank's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  6
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$80,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
US$80,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$20,000, and (ii) each contract for 
the employment of individual consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consulting firms and individual consultants, 
respectively, shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word "bids", in such 
paragraph 4, shall be read as "quotations".
Attachment II 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)  The term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$80,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)  
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
Page  7
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under the eligible items, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account.
(a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant;
(b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex of this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)  once the total withdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount. 
