Report No. PID10757
Project Name                     China-GEF Energy Conservation II
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Other Power & Energy Conversion
Project ID                       CNPE67337
Borrower(s)                      Government Of China
Implementing Agency
State Economic And Trade Commission
Address: No.28 West Street Xuanwumen,
Beijing, 100053, P.R.C.
Contact Person: Mr. Wang Shumao
Tel: 86-10-6360-1354
Fax: 86-10-6360-1353
Email:pmo@public.bta.net.cn
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                September 14, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 2002
Projected Board Date             June 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Energy Conservation Efforts in China. Improving energy efficiency has
been a cornerstone in China's energy policy for about 20 years. It has
long been recognized that continued, long-term economic growth is not
physically, financially or environmentally sustainable without dramatic
further improvements in energy efficiency. Initially, the Chinese
Government employed a series of monitoring and quota mechanisms through
the planned economy to promote energy conservation and curtail at least
the most glaring cases of energy waste. More recently, the Government has
deployed a mixture of tools, better catered to the developing market
economy, which are similar to those employed in most market economies with
sophisticated energy conservation policies. These include the economic
framework, regulation, technology development, and market-based
initiatives.   China has collaborated with a variety of international
organizations on each of the above agendas, with a number of important and
worthwhile projects. For its part, the Bank has supported the technology
transfer agenda, through the development of more energy-efficient small
coal-fired boiler models under the GEF-supported China Efficient
Industrial Boilers Project. The Bank also is discussing possible support
for the implementation of building energy efficiency regulations, as part
of a possible future Building Energy Efficiency and Heat Reform Project.
However, the main focus of the Bank's effort, based on the findings of
substantial upstream sector work and following the strong desire of
Government counterparts, has been to help develop means to better take
advantage of market forces to implement financially attractive energy
saving renovation projects. The effort to obtain results using market
forces follows the slogan coined by one Chinese counterpart, "Conserve



energy and make money."      The sector work, together with other market
analyses and many experiences in project implementation, has shown that
there is very large potential across China for "classic" energy
conservation renovation project which will yield sound life-cycle
financial returns today. However, a large part of this potential remains
untouched. The reasons for this counter-intuitive dilemma, also found in
other countries, include inadequate information, real or perceived
insignificance of small projects, high transaction costs, technology risk,
technology transfer barriers, and difficulties in arranging financing.
The China Energy Conservation Project, and this proposed Phase II effort,
are targeted squarely on the development and implementation of solutions
to at least partially overcome these barriers to implementation of
financially attractive energy conservation investment. The EC/GEF/IBRD
China Energy Conservation Project. Approved by the Bank's Board in March,
1998, the objective of the $151 million China Energy Conservation Project
is to achieve large, sustained and growing increases in energy efficiency,
and associated reductions in growth of carbon dioxide emissions and other
pollutants, by (a) introducing, demonstrating and disseminating new
project financing concepts and market-oriented institutions to promote and
implement energy efficiency measures in China, and (b) developing a more
efficient national energy conservation information dissemination program.
The project is designed to assist in the transition of China's energy
conservation activities from a system based on planned economy concepts to
a more market-oriented system, which can be sustained over time and grow
with China's economy. Energy performance contracting as practiced by the
three EMCs under the project, can overcome many of the constraints
described previously. By providing design, procurement, financing, and
installation services, and guaranteeing positive-cash flow performance as
a condition for any payment, the EMCs can overcome many of the problems
faced by enterprises with energy conservation projects.     Project
implementation to date has been fully satisfactory, and the three EMCs,
founded in Beijing, Liaoning and Shandong, are successfully developing
growing businesses. Following publicity by SETC of the efforts so far,
some new EMCs are beginning to form, and more groups and business are
becoming interested in capturing some of the potential for energy
performance contracting.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed project is to expand domestic investment in
energy efficiency projects through the aggressive development of China's
nascent Energy Management Company (EMC) industry, thereby achieving
large-scale energy efficiency improvements and associated reductions in
the growth of carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants. The EMC
concept has been successfully demonstrated under Chinese conditions by
three large pilot EMCs established in 1997 and developed under the ongoing
EC/GEF/IBRD China Energy Conservation Project. Additional EMCs are now
endeavoring to emerge, and interest in developing this type of business in
China is running high. To foster the broad development of an EMC industry
in China quickly will require (a) the introduction and growing
participation of China's domestic banks in the business, as the primary
source of credit, and (b) massive dissemination of the concept and
experiences achieved, supported also with practical technical assistance
and operationally-focused training for emerging new EMCs. This project
seeks to meet these requirements.
-2-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This project conforms fully with the CAS goals to adjust the balance
between energy development and conservation and improve the environmental
sustainability of infrastructure. The project is also consistent with the
objectives of GEF Operational Program 5: Removal of Barriers to Energy
Efficiency and Energy Conservation. Section 5.7 of OP5 includes support
for activities that lead to sustainable "win-win" results that demonstrate
local, national, and global benefits through removal of barriers.
4. Description
The proposed project includes two components: (a) an EMC Service
Component, designed primarily to provide in-depth, practical technical
assistance to new and emerging EMCs on development of their businesses,
and (b) an EMC Loan Guarantee Program, designed to provide new and
emerging EMCs with enhance opportunities to receive loans from domestic
banks, and to engage the banks in the development of a sustainable EMC
industry.EMC Service Component. This component will support the
development and key initial activities of an EMC Service Group, which
will operate as a Western-style trade association to provide a range of
services to member EMCs or prospective member EMCs. The objective of the
EMC Service Group is to assist in the creation of a sustainable MEC
industry in China, by providing technical assistance and training services
to emerging EMCs, promoting the EMC business in society at large, and
developing a cohesive, mutually supporting network among member EMCs.
EMC Loan Guarantee Program.    A new EMC loan guarantee facility will be
established under the project in China and operated on a commercial basis
with national coverage, to enhance the ability of EMCs to obtain
commercial loan financing from domestic banks. The facility will be
operated by a Guarantee Company (most likely newly established
specifically for the project), working in strategic partnership with
several major participating domestic banks, who will receive substantial
technical assistance under the project. The facility must be operated on
commercial terms, seeking to preserve and grow its capital base be
controlling costs, price risk correctly, charge appropriate fees, and
maintain prudent treasury management.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GEF financing proposed for this project: $26 million
Total Project Cost
6. Implementation
The SETC will be responsible for coordination of project implementation,
working together with the Ministry of Finance and other agencies and
research units. The SETC's Project Management Office (PMO), established
in 1997, has been effectively conducting project coordination activities
for the first phase of the China Energy Conservation Project, and will
continue its work during this second phase. The details of project
implementation, however, with be the responsibility of the EMC Service
Group, and the proposed Guarantee Company in conjunction with its
participating bank partners.
7. Sustainability
The development of a self-sustaining (and growing) EMC industry in China
is the objective of this project. The project has been designed
-3 -



specifically to achieve this objective, by aiming to involve domestic
banks as the financiers of the industry, thus completing the full
necessary market framework, and by developing a service-oriented EMC
Group/Association for mutual EMC assistance.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience in other Bank/GEF projects, and in a variety countries, in
promotion of EMCs/ESCOs has been fully reviewed and incorporated in the
project design, particularly through active involvement of the task team
in the Bank's Energy Efficiency and Environment Thematic Group.
Contingent finance arrangements developed in IFC's Hungary Energy
Efficiency Guarantee Project and the proposed GEF Romania Energy
Efficiency Project were closely reviewed, and elements from these projects
have been incorporated in the project design. The task team has also
exchanged views with Brazilian experts involved in the GEF/IBRD Brazil
Energy Efficiency Project, who also are considering the development of a
loan guarantee program for ESCO projects.    As planned prior to submission
of this project to the GEF Council, the PMO and Bank team have also
completed, particularly through the Mid-Term Project Review, (a) an
evaluation of implementation results of the initial pilot project in the
EMC Demonstration Component, (b) an assessment of lessons learned,
identification of issues requiring resolution, and proposed solutions: (c)
conferences and consultations on EMC results with the domestic financial
community; and (d) arrangements for suitable counterpart
financing.Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership
Borrower commitment and ownership is high. Development and expansion of
the EMC industry has become one of the main directions of the Government's
program to align its energy conservation strategy with the developing
market economy. Development of this project has involved many
consultations with various stakeholders, to develop a broad consensus of
approach. SETC has already formed the EMC Service Group, and has engaged
high-quality consultants and experts from different sectors to undertake
project preparation.Value added of Bank and Global support in the project.
With the active support and involvement of GEF staff, the Bank and Chinese
teams have worked exceptionally closely since 1995 to develop energy
performance contracting as a new investment mechanism in the Chinese
market. The joint team has built new institutions, adapted foreign models
to Chinese conditions, and addressed and solved a wide range of issues,
some of which had never been encountered before. It is very important to
continue the GEF/Bank/Chinese joint effort on past the initial,
successfully demonstration phase, through to the most critical,
dissemination and expansion phase. This will require additional
institutional building challenges and additional innovative arrangements,
building upon the relationships already developed.        As with the first
phase of the project, GEF support of Phase II fulfills a role which no
other entity can. There is no alternative investor willing and able to
place sufficient funds in the high-risk position of the proposed new
guarantee facility capital reserve, in order to achieve the potential
broad global benefit expected.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :    This financial intermediation project will result
in major positive impacts on the environment, in terms of improved energy
- 4 -



efficiency, reduced air pollution, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
No major adverse environmental issues are associated with the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Robert P. Taylor
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-2446
Fax:   (202) 522-1648
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 2,2001
- 5 -



