Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24883-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GEF GRANT
OF SDR 19.7 MILLION (US$26 EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
SECOND ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
September 25, 2002
Energy & Mining Sector Unit
China Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 10, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Yuan 1.00 = US$0.12
US$1.00 = Yuan 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASTAE         Asia Alternative Energy Programme
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DfID          Department for International Development
DO            Development Objective
EMC           Energy Management Company
ESCO          Energy Service Company
GEF           Global Environment Facility
IA            Implementating Agency
IAS           International Accounting Standards
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IP            Implementation Progress
NGO           Nongovernmental Organization
PMO           Project Management Office
SECIDC        SETC Energy Conservation Information Dissemination Center
SETC          State Economic and Trade Commission
TA            Technical Assistance
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Yukon Huang
Acting Sector Manager/Director:  Mohammad Farhandi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Robert P. Taylor



CHINA
SECOND ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ................................................................6
1. Project Development Objective .................................................................     6
2. Key Performance Indicators ................................................................. 6
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ...............................................................6
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project               .  .   6
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy .................................................................   7
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices                   .      .       10
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ...............................................................           12
1. Project components .................................................................               12
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project: .             ........................................... 16
3. Benefits and Target Population .................................................................   16
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: .................................................................. 16
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ...............................................................                      16
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ................................................... 16
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies ............ 17
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design ............................................................ 17
4. Indications of Borrower and Recipient Commitment and Ownership ...............          ..................... 17
5. Value Added of Bank and Global Support in this Project ....................................................... 18
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ...............................................................               18
1. Economic ................................................................. 18
2. Financial ................................................................. 18
3. Technical ................................................................. 19
4. Institutional ..................................................................                    19
5. Environmental        .................................................................. 20
6. Social .................................................................. 21
7. Safeguard Policies ................................................................. 21
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ...............................................................               22
1. Sustainability ................................................................. 22
2. Critical Risks ................................................................. 22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................. 24
G. MAIN CONDITIONS ...............................................................                        24
1. Effectiveness Condition ............................                                               24
2. Other ............................ 24
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION                          ........................... 27
I. COMPLIANCE WITiH BANK POLICIES                        ........................... 27



ANNEXES
Annex 1:        Project Design Summary ......................................... 28
Annex 2:        Detailed Project Description ......................................... 31
Annex 3:        Estimated Project Costs ......................................... 46
Annex 4:       Incremental Cost Analysis ......................................... 47
Annex 5:        Financial Summary .........................................                 55
Annex 6(A):     Procurement Arrangements .........................................          64
Annex 6(B):     Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................... 68
Annex 7:        Project Processing Schedule ......................................... 71
Annex 8:        Documents in the Project File .........................................     72
Annex 9:        Statement of Loans and Credits ......................................... 73
Annex 10:       Country at a Glance ......................................... 77
Annex 11:       China's EMC Industry .........................................              79
Annex 12:       Flow Chart for Environmental Clearance of Subprojects ...................................... 87



CHINA
Second Energy Conservation
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASEG
Date: September 25, 2002                          Team Leader: Robert P. Taylor
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang             Sector Manager/Director: M. Farhandi
Project ID: P067337                               Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
Theme(s): Energy
Focal Area: G                                     Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit      [X] Grant       [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $26.0 equivalent
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                            1.50           0.00          1.50
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                  25.00          1.00          26.00
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                          215.00          0.00         215.00
Financing Gap
Total:                                                      241.50          1.00         242.50
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF CHINA
Responsible agency: STATE ECONOMIC AND TRADE COMMISSION
Address: No.28 West Street Xuanwumen, Beijing, 100053, P.R.C.
Contact Person: Mr. Wang Shumao
Tel: 86-10-6360-1354           Fax: 86-10-6360-1353           Email: pmo@public.bta.net.cn
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS ( BANK FY/US$M):
FY          2003       2004      2005       2006      2007       2008       2009
Annual     11.9      7.0        6.2        0.4       0.3        0.1       0.1
Cumulative        11.9       18.9      25.1       25.5      25.8       25.9       26.0
Project implementation period: 2002-2009






A. Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed project is to expand domestic investment in energy
efficiency projects through the aggressive development of China's nascent Energy Management
Company (EMC) inclustry, thereby achieving large-scale energy efficiency improvements and
associated reductions in the growth of carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants. The EMC
concept has been successfully demonstrated under Chinese conditions by three large pilot EMCs
established in 1997 and developed under the ongoing EC/GEF/IBRD China Energy Conservation
Project. Other EMCs are now endeavoring to emerge, and interest in developing this type of
business in China is running high. To foster the broad development of an EMC industry in China
quickly will require: (a) the introduction and growing participation of China's domestic banks in
the business, as the primary source of credit; and (b) massive dissemination of the concept and
experiences achieved., supported also with practical technical assistance and operationally-focused
training for emerging new EMCs. This project seeks to meet these requirements.
EMCs in the Chinese context are similar to energy service companies (ESCOs) operating
abroad. The EMCs undertake energy conservation investment project in other "host" enterprises,
based on a contract between the EMCs and hosts (e.g., an "energy performance contract"). As
developed in the three pilot EMCs, the EMCs are responsible for project design, procurement,
installation, financing and energy conservation performance. Host enterprises are obligated to pay
the EMC a portion of the energy savings realized (typically about 80%) over the tenor of the
contract (typically 1-3 years), as payment for the project package. At the end of the contract, title
to the relevant equipment, and all future energy savings arising there from revert to the host
enterprise. The emerging Chinese EMCs need not strictly adhere to the model developed by the
first three pilot companies. Variations in terms of EMC corporate structure, business lines,
contractual arrangements, and role of the EMC in project financing are expected, and healthy. To
be defined as an EMC in the Chinese context, the two critical points are: (a) over 50% of the
benefits of EMC projects should arise from energy cost savings, in order to be classified as energy
conservation projects; and (b) the revenue paid to EMCs by host enterprises should be derived from
and be proportional to actual reductions in energy costs, allowing the host enterprise to maintain
positive cash flow on the project throughout the project life.
2. Key Performance Indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators for this project will include total annual energy efficiency
investments generated by EMCs, and associated annual energy savings and reductions in carbon
dioxide emissions. In addition, a number of other quantitative and qualitative indicators will be
monitored and reported in all regular project reports. The key performance indicators were
formally agreed at project negotiations and are detailed in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107 (Progress Report)     Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
The 1997 CAS goals (R97-20 (IDA/R97-14], discussed on March 18, 1997) were to reduce
infrastructure bottlenecks by adjusting the investment pattern in favor of water management,
energy, transportation, and telecommunications, to adjust the balance between energy development
6



and conservation, and to develop alternative energy sources. The CAS is currently under revision
and major themes emerging are assistance to China in its transitions from a command economy to a
market economy; and from a rural, agricultural economy to an urban society, focusing on
development of the institutional frameworks, and development of environmentally sustainable
infrastructure; and addressing the needs of disadvantaged peoples and regions.
This project conforms fully with the program's goals to adjust the balance between energy
development and conservation, and to improve the environmental sustainability of infrastructure.
la. Global Operational Strategy/Program Objective Addressed by the project:
The project is consistent with the objectives of GEF Operational Program 5: Removal of
Barriers to Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation. Section 5.7 of OP5 includes support for
activities that lead to sustainable "win-win" results that demonstrate local, national, and global
benefits through removal of these barriers.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Energy Conservation Efforts in China. Improving energy efficiency has been a
cornerstone in China's energy policy for about 20 years. It has long been recognized that
continued, long-term economic growth is not physically, financially or environmentally sustainable
without dramatic further improvements in energy efficiency. Initially, the Chinese Government
employed a series of monitoring and quota mechanisms through the planned economy to promote
energy conservation and curtail at least the most blatant cases of energy waste. More recently, the
Government has deployed a variety of tools, better suited to the developing market economy,
which are similar to those employed in most market economies with sophisticated energy
conservation policies. These include:
o  The economic framework. Reformed for many reasons, the current economic operating
framework of most enterprises is far more conducive to improving energy efficiency than
previously. Average energy price levels have been basically in line with, or above, energy
production costs for a considerable period, and the financial energy costs faced by
enterprises are generally close to economic costs. Although further reforms remain
necessary, profit motives among enterprises have greatly increased, including in state-
owned enterprises, and will increase further with China's accession to the World Trade
Organization.
o  Regulation. Aided by the implementation of an Energy Conservation Law passed in 1997,
the Government is endeavoring to develop and implement various efficiency standards and
labeling programs for energy-intensive equipment, codes for new buildings, and some unit
energy consumption benchmarks for new industrial plant.
o  Technology development. Various programs are in place to foster the research and
development and/or technology transfer from abroad of new, more energy-efficient
technologies for a wide range of applications.
o  Market-based initiatives. Beginning in the early 1990s, China has increasingly tried to
capitalize on market forces and incentives to encourage greater energy efficiency, through
development of new investment mechanisms, efforts to increase business awareness, and
institution building.
7



China has collaborated with a variety of international organizations on each of the these
initiatives with a number of important and worthwhile projects. For its part, the Bank has
supported the technology transfer agenda, through the development of more energy-efficient small
coal-fired boiler models under the GEF-supported China Efficient Industrial Boilers Project. The
Bank also is considering possible support for the implementation of building energy efficiency
regulations, as part of a possible future Heat Reform and Building Energy Efficiency Project.
However, the main focus of the Bank's effort to date, based on the findings of substantial upstream
sector work, and following the strong desire of Government counterparts, has been to help develop
means to better take advantage of market forces to implement financially attractive energy saving
renovation projects. The effort to obtain results using market forces follows the slogan coined by
one Chinese counterpart, "Conserve energy and make money." (See China: Energy Conservation
Study, February 4, 1993), and China: Issues and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control,
1994).
The sector work mentioned previously, together with other market analyses and many
experiences in project implementation, including many case studies undertaken by SETC's Energy
Conservation Information Dissemination Center (SECIDC), all have shown that there is very large
potential across China for "classic" energy conservation renovation projects which yield sound life-
cycle financial retumns today. ("Classic" energy conservation projects may be defined as projects
where the primary purposes is energy conservation.  Major industrial restructuring and
modernization projects also may save large amounts of energy, and are important in the national
energy conservation program, but investment decision-making must involve more complex issues,
such as long-term enterprise viability, market strategies, etc.) Investment scale for the classic
energy conservation projects in industrial or commercial establishments typically ranges from
US$50,000-1,000,000, with financial rates of return of 20-40% p.a. or even more, and payback
periods generally ranging between 1 and 4 years. However, a large part of this potential remains
untouched. The reasons for this paradox, also found in other countries, include:
*  Inadequate information. Enterprises and individuals generally lack information about
energy-saving investments, especially on financial aspects and the implementation
experiences of others. Information on new and emerging technologies and project
concepts is particularly difficult for many to obtain;
*  Less interest in operating cost savings. Many enterprises continue to show less interest in
investments which result in operating cost savings over the longer term, compared to
investments yielding production increases or entry into new markets. Projections of future
cash flow from operating cost savings do not seem as tangible a benefit as, for example, a
new production line.
*  Real or perceived insignificance of small projects. Many worthwhile energy conservation
investments are relatively small (although the high number of such projects in many
enterprises makes aggregate potential rewards large). Although they may yield very
attractive internal rates of return as projects, the end result may represent only a percentage
point or two savings on total enterprise operating costs, or even less. Particularly if there
are other perceived headaches (lack of detailed information, insufficient financing, possible
technical risk or operational disruption, etc.) this often results in unenthusiastic responses
from enterprise managers;
*  High transaction costs. If a given enterprise has no experience with a certain type of
energy conservation investment, the time required from skilled staff for securing
information, analyzing design options, arranging financing, identifying reliable suppliers,
etc., may rnake a small project not worthwhile;
8



o  Risk. Unless clearly demonstrated otherwise, fears that a new technology may not work,
could interrupt production, or may take time to perfect, all inhibit enterprise managers from
adopting new energy-saving technologies;
o  Technology transfer barriers. In some cases, it may be difficult for enterprises to gain
access to state-of the-art technologies; and
o  Difficulties in arranging financing. High loan transaction costs for such types of small
projects make commercial lending for many energy conservation projects unattractive to
most banks, unless projects can be bundled together, or other pooling measures are
adopted. Additional problems for banks may include lack of knowledge about the main
technical areas and associated risk factors, reticence to lend for projects where projected
operating cost benefits form the main revenue stream and which cannot readily be isolated,
or less-than-average collateral values for the diverse, small-sized equipment generally
associated with an energy conservation project. With such problems, most enterprises put
other projects at the top of their lists when requesting bank loans.
The China Energy Conservation Project, and this proposed follow-on effort, are targeted
squarely on the development and implementation of solutions to at least partially overcome these
barriers to implementation of financially attractive energy conservation investment.
The EC/GEF/IBRD China Energy Conservation Project. Approved by the Bank's
Board in March, 1998, the objective of the $151 million China Energy Conservation Project is to
achieve large, sustained and growing increases in energy efficiency, and associated reductions in
growth of carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants, by (a) introducing, demonstrating and
disseminating new project financing concepts and market-oriented institutions to promote and
implement energy efficiency measures in China, and (b) developing a more efficient national
energy conservation information dissemination program. The project is designed to assist in the
transition of China's energy conservation activities from a system based on planned economy
concepts to a more market-oriented system, which can be sustained over time and grow with
China's economy. The largest component of the project, including financing of $15 million from
the GEF, $63 million from IBRD, $4.5 million from the EC, and $54.3 million from domestic
sources, supports the establishment and pilot demonstration of EMCs in China for the first time.
The project includes a $10 million Information Component, which seeks to strengthen China's
national efforts to improve access to specific information concerning successful domestic energy
efficiency experience, geared in particular to financial decision makers, through the establishment
and operation of SETC's new Energy Conservation Information Dissemination Center. The project
also includes a $4 million Project Management and Monitoring Component. (See the Project
Appraisal Document, IBRD Report 17030-CHA, February 26, 1998).
Energy performance contracting as practiced by the three EMCs under the project (see
section Al above), can overcome many of the constraints described previously. By providing
design, procurement, financing, and installation services, and guaranteeing positive-cash flow
performance as a condition for any payment, the EMCs can overcome many of the problems faced
by enterprises with energy conservation projects. If projects are successful, host enterprises
basically receive new, more efficient equipment at the end of the performance contract, paid for
entirely through energy savings. Through specialization, and replication of similar projects across
many enterprises, the EMCs are able to reduce transaction costs. Because the internal economics
of the projects are strong, there are sufficient financial returns to both attract host enterprises and
provide strong financial returns to the EMCs.
Successfully developed in North America and Europe, groups in many developing
countries have found the energy performance contracting concept appealing, and made efforts to
9



develop ESCOs. However, it has proven difficult to ramp-up the scale of this approach and attain
meaningful levels of investment, as it is a new and relatively sophisticated business, requiring a
receptive operating environment and suitable mix of technical, financial risk management,
procurement, contracting and marketing skills. In the Chinese case, where it was a totally new
concept, it was decided, therefore, to put maximum effort initially on the development of corporate
working models of meaningful scale to pioneer the mechanism, and test and adapt it in the Chinese
market. If successful, yielding good financial results, the experiment could then be more broadly
disseminated.
Project implementation to date has been fully satisfactory, and the three EMCs, founded in
Beijing, Liaoning and Shandong, are successfully developing markets, building human capital and
progressively growing their businesses. Formed in 1997 with shareholders' capital of between
RMB 20 and 34 million each (US$ 2.4-4.1 million), and recipients of large-scale technical
assistance, the three small companies utilized an EC grant to implement initial sets of pilot
subprojects in 1998. In mid-1999, the companies began to develop their portfolios, using GEF,
IBRD and other financial resources. As of March 2002, the three EMCs have entered into 208
energy performance contracts with aggregate investments of over US$45 million (including GEF
financing of $9.5 million). Their businesses are growing rapidly: in 2002, the three companies plan
to enter into 83 new performance contracts, totaling almost $26 million in new investment.
Average annual financial rates of return to the EMCs of subprojects have been in excess of 20%
per year, although these may decline somewhat in the future as their markets mature. Repayment
by client enterprises has been very good, and with few exceptions, payments have been made
according to contracts. Profits from earlier investments are beginning to be realized and all three
EMCs declared corporate profits for 2001. Additional information of the experience of the three
EMCs is provided in Annex 11.
Following publicity by SETC of the efforts so far, new EMCs are beginning to form, and
more groups and business are becoming interested in exploiting the potential for energy
performance contracting.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices: (see also Annex 11)
Now is the appropriate time to harvest the investments made in the demonstration EMCs
and to begin a larger scale program to develop the EMC industry in China, based on these
successful working models. All parties recognized during the design and preparation of the China
Energy Conservation Project that the initial development of the pilot EMCs would need to be
followed by a major dissemination and expansion effort, under a Phase II GEF project, in order for
the full benefits and vision of the program to be truly realized. Provisions for this are reflected in
the original Project Appraisal Document, legal agreements and Minutes of Project Negotiations.
Originally, Phase Il activities were included in a large first project package, but at project appraisal
it was decided to split components for which GEF financing was sought, so that the detailed design
of Phase II could build upon the initial implementation experience of the first.three EMCs, and be
best catered to evolving needs. The Bank and the Government agreed that the follow-up GEF
support would be sought about 18 months after the effectiveness of the first project.
Through the demonstration effort, the main achievements in developing EMCs to date
include:
* The concept of energy performance contracting has been shown to be viable under Chinese
conditions. Promotion of this market mechanism has now become an important part of the
Government's overall energy conservation policy;
10



o The three EMCs have successfully pioneered corporate models and business strategies
incorporating both the financial and technical sides of the energy performance contracting
business;
o Contract models, standard financing terms and benefit sharing regimes, energy savings
verification methods, host enterprise selection criteria and credit controls, and project
negotiation and management methods all have been worked out, tested and revised in over
200 projects, to best meet the practical needs in the Chinese economic system; and
o  Market demand for energy performance contracting services has been demonstrated to be
strong and broadly based across a variety of sectors, especially if the EMCs are able to
provide project financing.
The three working models have attracted the attention of others. As of November, 2001,
some 6 small new EMCs had     been formed, with registered capital of RMB 10 million
($1,200,000) or less. An additional 15-20 groups have established some types of subsidiaries to
operate EMC-type businesses. Over 200 firms have expressed interest to SETC in establishing
EMC-type businesses. However, these new initiatives remain very small, and, while many groups
have tried out some small energy performance contracting projects, little investment has actually
been made (see also Annex 11).
Following surveys and many discussions with emerging/prospective EMCs and banking
institutions, SETC's Project Management Office (PMO) and the Bank project team have concluded
that the main barriers constraining rapid new EMC development today include:
o Lack of awareness of the basic concept. Despite the steady efforts of SETC to publicize
the concept of energy performance contracting, the idea remains basically unknown by
most groups, except for some groups specialized solely on energy conservation work.
Given the vastness of China, truly massive efforts are required to raise awareness.
o  Lack of knowledge and skills to operate EMC businesses.   Energy performance
contracting, as operated by the EMCs to date, is both a novel and sophisticated business
concept. Key capacities required include (a) excellent and up-to-date knowledge of energy
conservation technologies and their practical application, in order to provide value-added
to customers and minimize technical risks; (b) ability to assess and minimize host
enterprise credit risks, employing various credit appraisal techniques and a variety of
options to secure repayment prospects; (c) sophisticated corporate financial management,
including project portfolio risk management; and (d) contract, procurement and project
implementation management. Mixtures of these skills can in principle be gained through
business alliances, well conceived staffing policies and extensive training , but practical
knowledge from past experience is critical. There is rich experience in the range of
business issues among the three EMCs and ESCOs abroad, but transfer of this knowledge
and experience is a daunting task.
o  Lack of creditfinancingfor EMC business development. Although policies may change in
the future, all banks in China remain subject to interest rate regulation, which allows only
minor variations in rates and hence does not enable loan pricing based on risk. Thus, since
returns are largely fixed, Chinese commercial banks focus primarily on loan security issues
and are particularly risk adverse. While a number of banks have noted the potential
advantage of the EMC businesses in bundling projects together, and minimizing
transaction costs, loans for energy performance contracting, either directly to host
enterprises or EMCs, are perceived as being very risky. This is due to the lack of
11



widespread experience with the mechanism, lack of established track records within
prospective new EMCs, and difficulties in structuring the type of strong collateral and/or
guarantee arrangements typically required by Chinese lenders. Liaoning EMC (one of the
pilot EMCs) has successfully pioneered a strategic partnership and line-of-credit
arrangement vwith a Chinese commercial bank, but only after demonstrating a track record
of successful subprojects, strong management, a viable business plan, and with the benefit
of GEF and IBRD financial commitments already in place.
Difficulties in securing sufficient equity financing. Equity financing is especially important
if EMCs are to provide at least some financing for their projects. Securing equity
investrnent also is often subject to the problems noted above, and is often a chicken-and-
egg problem with respect to credit financing: If credit financing can be secured, equity
investments are easier to obtain, and visa versa.
The proposed Second Energy Conservation Project has been designed by SETC's PMO
and its advisors, together with the Bank project team, to help overcome these barriers to rapid
development of China's EMC industry as efficiently as possible. Furthermore, in order to foster
development of an EMC industry which is sustainable in the market on commercial terms, two
additional objectives were set as requirements for project design: (a) direct grants to new or
emerging EMCs should be avoided, and (b) the Chinese. banking industry must be engaged as the
key source of credit financing, replacing the donor financing in the demonstration phase. Indeed,
the active participation of the banking sector is the remaining key piece of the market framework
needed for operation of a sustainable EMC industry, as the third necessary player in this triangular
business, joining the EMCs and host enterprises.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative         Bank      % of     GEF      % of
Component        Sector   Costs    % of   financin  Bank    financing  GEF
(US$M)    Total     g     financing  (uJS$M  financing
(US$M)            equivalent)
EMC Guarantee Prograrms         238.8     98.5    0.00     0.0      23.80     91.5
EMC Services                     3.1      1.3     0.00      0.0      1.60     6.2
Project Monitoring,              0.60     0.2     0.00      0.0      0.60     2.3
Reporting and Evaluation
Total Project Costs      242.5    100.0    0.00     0.0      26.00    100.0
Total Financing lRequired     242.5    100.0    0.00     0.0      26.00    100.0
The proposed project includes three components: (a) an EMC Service Component,
designed primarily to provide in-depth, practical technical assistance to new and emerging EMCs
on setting up and developing their businesses; (b) a Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
Component to support the coordination and evaluation work of SETC's PMO; and (c) an EMC
Loan Guarantee Program, designed to provide new and emerging EMCs with enhanced
12



opportunities to receive loans from domestic banks, and to engage the banks in the development of
a sustainable EMC industry.
EMC Service Component. This component will support the development and key initial
activities of an EMC Service Association,  which will operate as a service-oriented trade
association to provide a range of services to member EMCs or prospective member EMCs. The
objective of the EMC Service Association is to assist in the creation of a sustainable EMC industry
in China, by providing technical assistance and training services to emerging EMCs, promoting the
EMC business in society at large, and developing a cohesive, mutually supporting network among
member EMCs. A core EMC Service "Group" already has been formed, within SETC's PMO, and
begun operations. During 2003 and following the expansion and further development of its EMC
membership, the EMC Service Group will be transformed into a permanent, independent legal
entity (termed here the "EMC Service Association"), independent from the Govemment and
dedicated to providing service to its EMC members. A major technical assistance program to
support the initial operations of the EMC Service Group is already underway, supported with grant
financing of about $2.5 million from the United Kingdom's Department for Intemational
Development (DfID) and implemented through the Bank's Asia Alternative Energy Programme
(ASTAE). Proposed additional financing during the project implementation period for the EMC
Service Association includes $1.6 million equivalent in GEF grant funds and about $1.6 million in
membership fees, service fees and other sources of Association revenue.
ASTAE-DJID EMC Service Activities. Approved in March 2001, and launched in May
2001, the ASTAE-DfID project is being implemented over about two years. Initial major activities
include: (a) development and initial delivery of a massive and sophisticated training program for
new EMCs, including an introductory course, and advanced, interactive workshops on EMC
corporate development and business strategy, EMC project development and management, EMC
financial management, and new and emerging business opportunities; (b) definition of the optimal
long-term institutional arrangement for the EMC Service Association, based in part on the
operational experiences of ESCO Associations intemationally; and (c) a series of activities to raise
awareness conceming the EMC industry in local banks, to help bank officials to understand the
details of the business, and to provide EMCs with customized technical assistance in their
preparation of applications for loan finance. The ASTAE-Df[D project plays a critical role in the
overall project, as it provides for a large-scale effort on corporate and business plan development
for new EMCs prior to the initiation of the proposed loan guarantee program, which must await
GEF Phase II project start-up.
Proposed GEF-financed Aspects. GEF support over a five-year period is proposed to
follow-on from the ASTAE-DfID activities, and to build the EMC Service Group/Association into
a self-sustaining and permanent institution, publicly acknowledged as the central institution
representing and servicing the national EMC industry in China. In addition to a further deepening
of the Association's massive training programs, major efforts are required to develop the
Association's advocacy functions to support the EMC industry, for intemational liaison, and to
develop sophisticated membership coordination, networking, and customized support functions.
GEF funds also will be used to support initial start-up core costs of the Association, which will
then be gradually phased out and replaced with the Association's revenues over a 5-year period, so
that the Association can sustain its operations once the GEF funds are exhausted. The Bank
reviewed and agreed to the Service Group's overall five-year financial plan at project appraisal.
The Group also will provide a further, more detailed year-by-year work program proposal for
agreement with the Bank by the end of 2002. These two plans will provide benchmarks for
subsequent project supervision.
13



Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation Component. The critical Project
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting Component will require $600,000 equivalent of GEF
support, and will be irmplemented by SETC's PMO. The PMO will maintain the Special Account
for the GEF financing of incremental operating costs and consulting services and will oversee GEF
disbursements. The PMO will be responsible for compiling reports on project status, on progress
meeting performance indicators (especially energy savings levels), and on financial management,
based in large part on information provided by the other two implementing entities (the EMC
Service Association and Guarantee Program Implementing Agency). The PMO will be responsible
for all project procurement work (consisting of consulting services only), although details may
prepared by the other two implementing entities. As the PMO also will operate the bank account
for the Guarantee Program Capital Reserve Specialized Fund, for SETC, the PMO also will need to
engage qualified experts to assist the Government in the supervision of the Guarantee Program and
its account.
EMC Loan Guarantee Program.      A new EMC Loan Guarantee Program will be
established under the project in China to enhance the ability of EMCs to obtain commercial loan
financing from domestic banks. The central objective of the Program is to achieve maximum EMC
investment in energy efficiency over the long term. To achieve this, the program must seek to: (a)
maximize guarantee transactions, leveraging capital resources as much as possible, to facilitate as
much lending to EMCs as possible; (b) preserve its capital base, to the extent feasible while
meeting other objectives, through commercially-oriented operation, in order to maintain resources
for revolving, long-term use; and (c) engage and strengthen the involvement of domestic banks in
the program as much as possible, so that the banks become increasingly familiar and comfortable
with lending to the EMC industry, and are increasingly willing to undertake EMC credit risks
themselves.
The Guarantee Program will be operated by one (or possibly several) Guarantee Program
Implementing Agency (IA), according to a Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement
between the IA and the Government, which must be approved by the Bank before any funds can be
disbursed for this component. The China National Investment and Guaranty Co. (I&G) is expected
to be appointed as IA for the Program at the outset. I&G is China's only national guarantee
company, and maintains the longest track record of any company in China's nascent loan guarantee
business, and the widest credibility in the Chinese market. The Terms of Reference for an
Implementation Agreement were agreed during project appraisal, and the principal terms and
conditions required have been included in the negotiated GEF Grant Agreement.
The   Program will be implemented incrementally, with flexibility to incorporate
adjustments, if required based on emerging experience, and if agreed between the Government, IA
and the Bank during annual formal program reviews and two Mid-Term Project Reviews.
Continuation of the appointment of an IA will be contingent upon satisfactory performance, as
determined during the above reviews. The IA with I&G will focus in particular on development of
the Program during the 30-month period leading up to the first Mid-Term Project Review, which
will involve intensive, customized work to implement at least 20-30 guarantee transactions. The
first four individual guarantee transactions for each type of guarantee will be subject to the Bank's
prior review, providing for intensive review until sufficient experience is gained with specific
EMC-Lk guarantee agreement models.
EMCs are expected to develop their own businesses, independently, using service from the
EMC Service Group/Association where necessary. For loan financing, they should approach
domestic banks. If there is a need for some support to close a loan or line-of-credit, EMCs and the
relevant bank may apply to the Program for a partial guarantee. Guarantees may be for loans
14



directly to EMCs, EMC host enterprises, or various combinations of these. The Program will offer
partial credit guarantees of up to 80-90% of loan principal amount initially, and declining amounts
over time. The Program will be open to any potential applicants operating EMCs or otherwise
engaged in energy performance contracting in China.  Guarantee periods are expected to range
between 1-3 years, and amounts are expected to be relatively small.  Hence, guarantee
commitments will "revolve" fairly quickly.
GEE resources of $22 million equivalent will be utilized to establish the EMC Guarantee
Program Special Fund, which is the fund against which guarantee commitments will be made.
(Multiple Funds will be established if more than one IA participates.) This capital reserve fund will
be placed in a first-loss position for the program's guarantees The IA will assume a portion of the
default risk relating to the leveraging of the reserve with guarantee commitments over and above
the reserve balance. The Fund will be operated by the SETC's PMO, acting for the Government,
and the Fund will remain the property of the Government of China under all circumstances. The
Fund will (a) be a separate account, retaining its own legal identity; (b) have its own strict
financial accounting, monitoring, control and reporting system that complies with Bank
requirements and International Accounting Standards (LAS). Income from investments of the
guarantee reserve and from guarantee fees will accrue to the Fund. Based on the provisions of the
Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement, the IA will (a) undertake conservative investment
of these funds, in line with agreed investment criteria; (b) enter into guarantee cormmitments
against the reserve; (c) pay for defaults, according to agreed procedures; and (d) receive
compensations for costs, as well as any accruing incentives payments. As an account operated by
SETC's PMO all withdrawals will require the approval of SETC or its PMO, according to
procedures in the Implementation Agreement.    At the end of the seven-year project
implementation period, the Fund balance will remain in the Fund for continued use to backstop
EMC loan guarantees developed by the IA, unless it is agreed by the Bank and the Government
that these remaining funds should be deployed for other, specifically agreed greenhouse gas
reduction activities and projects. Annex 2 provides additional details.
The EMC Loan Guarantee Program also includes $1.8 million equivalent of GEF grant
financing to support a portion of the costs associated with the Program start-up and the intensive
development of initial transactions during the first several years. Transactions costs are expected to
be especially high initially, as the provision of loan guarantees is an entirely new business. Strong
emphasis has been put on the development of an initial pipeline of at least 20-30 transactions
during the first two years. The IA is already preparing an initial set of 5-10 transactions for
immediate implementation upon grant effectiveness.
If the Guarantee Program develops a good reputation, and the banking sector considers the
capital reserve to be a suitably liquid and credible, the IA may eventually be able enter into
guarantee commitments of 3-5 times the capital reserve. GEF seeks to maximize guarantee
capacity from the capital reserve, aiming at guarantee commitments exceeding the capital reserve
level from the first year onwards. Even with very conservative assumptions on the willingness of
the market to accept leveraged guarantee commitments, the guarantee facility will be able to
support EMC-sponsored energy conservation investment of at least some $250 million over the
seven-year project period. This equates to a leveraging of about II to 1, in terms of investment
over the period per dollar of GEF resources.'
In the Illustrative Case presented in Annex 5, the somewhat less conservative assumptions on leveraging
result in EMC investment levels of about $310 rnillion over seven years.
15



Use of GEF financing for the guarantee facility conforms with the GEF's strong desire to
develop "contingent financing" modalities for "win-win" energy efficiency projects. The GEF
seeks arrangements where its grant funds may be used to compensate for (buy down) the risks
considered too high by commercial investors but, in cases where the risks are indeed successfully
overcome in project implementation, direct grants for financially successful projects are avoided.
This project component will be one of the first major projects in the Bank adopting a contingent
financing approach. No direct grants will be provided to EMCs or end-users. Upon project
completion, remaining funds, which are expected to be substantial, can be retained for further use
in the guarantee program or reallocated for other greenhouse gas abatement projects.
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
None-the project is expected to be implemented within the current Chinese environment.
3. Benefits and Targelt Population:
The project will provide large, cost-effective reductions in energy use, GHG emissions and
other pollutants (e.g., total suspended particulates and sulfur dioxide). Preliminary estimates of
direct energy savings benefits over a ten year period total some 64 million tons of coal equivalent,
equal to about 43 million tons of carbon (see Annex 4). Reduced energy costs in production yield
benefits to Chinese consumers, while reduced local and global pollution benefit both local and
global populations.
Because this project builds upon the investrnents made in the first phase of the China
Energy Conservation Project, contingent financing is employed, and the Chinese energy efficiency
market is so large, the cost effectiveness of GEF's projected net investment in the project is
extremely high, at some $10-25 US cents/ton of carbon avoided. This would be among the lowest
cost per ton of carbon avoided in the GEF's entire portfolio.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
The SETC will be responsible for coordination of project implementation, working
together with the Ministry of Finance and other agencies and research units. The SETC's Project
Management Office (PMO), established in 1995, has been effectively conducting project
coordination activities for the first China Energy Conservation Project, and will continue its work
during this second phase.  The details of project implementation, however, will be the
responsibility of the EMC Service Group/Association, and the Guarantee Program Implementing
Agency (IA). The institutional set-up for the EMC Service Group/Association and for the
implementation of the Guarantee Program is discussed in Section Cl above, and especially Annex
2.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection:
Project design was a gradual process over two years, during the implementation of the first
Energy Conservation Project, involving many consultations with the three demonstration EMCs,
new and emerging EMCs, domestic banks, central and local government officials, and international
and domestic industry experts. Incorporation of a major investment (guarantee) component was
included, as opposed to sole reliance upon information dissemination and capacity building,
following surveys and repeated discussions with both new and merging EMCs and domestic banks,
who outlined the severe constraints facing EMCs applying for loans with limited track records and
16



assets. Operation of a competitive, small grant program for new and emerging EMCs was
considered during the early stages of project design. However, it was decided to rely on the
guarantee mechanisms only, and avoid direct grants to the EMCs, both to increase the leverage and
potential benefits from the limited funds available, and to conform with the GEF's interests in
promotion of "contingent finance" projects.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies
completed, ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                 Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects onlv)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                           Progress (IF)  Objective (DO)
Energy Efficiency       EC/GEF/IBRD                         S             S
China Energy Conservation Project
Energy Efficiency       China: Efficient Industrial Boilers  S            S
Energy Efficiency      IFC Hungary EE Cofinancing Program
Energy Efficiency       Romania-GEF Energy Efficiency
Project (FY03)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design:
Experience gained promoting EMCs/ESCOs in other Bank/GEF projects, and in a variety
countries, was fully reviewed and incorporated in the project design, particularly through active
involvement of the task team in the Bank's Energy Efficiency and Environment Thematic Group.
Contingent finance arrangements developed in IFC's Hungary Energy Efficiency Guarantee
Project and the GEF Romania Energy Efficiency Project were closely reviewed, and elements from
these projects have been incorporated in the project design. The task team has also exchanged
views with Brazilian experts involved in the GEF/IBRD Brazil Energy Efficiency Project, who also
are considering the development of a loan guarantee program for ESCO projects.
As planned prior to submission of this project to the GEF Council, the PMO and Bank
team also have completed, particularly through the Mid-Term Project Review for the first China
Energy Conservation Project, (a) an evaluation of implementation results of the initial pilot project
in the EMC Demonstration Component, (b) an assessment of lessons learned, identification of
issues requiring resolution, and proposed solutions: (c) conferences and consultations on EMC
results with the domestic financial community, and (d) arrangements for suitable counterpart
financing (see Annex 11).
4. Indications of Borrower and Recipient Commitment and Ownership:
Borrower commitment and ownership is high. Development and expansion of the EMC
industry has become one of the main directions of the Government's program to align its energy
conservation strategy with the developing market economy.  As mentioned in section DI,
development of this project has involved many consultations with various stakeholders, to develop
a broad consensus on approach. SETC already has formed the EMC Service Group, and has
engaged highly qualified consultants and experts from different sectors to undertake project
preparation.
17



5. Value Added of Bank and Global Support in this Project:
With the active support and involvement of GEF, the Bank and Chinese teams have
worked exceptionally closely since 1995 to develop energy performance contracting as a new
investment mechanism in the Chinese market. The joint team has built new institutions, adapted
foreign models to Chinese conditions, and addressed and solved a wide range of issues, some of
which never had been encountered before. It is very important to continue the GEF/Bank/Chinese
joint effort on past the initial, successfully demonstration phase, through to the most critical
dissemination and expansion phase. This will require additional institutional building challenges
and additional innovative arrangements, building upon the relationships already developed.
As with the first project, GEF support of this second project fulfills a role which no other
entity can. There is no alternative investor willing and able to place sufficient funds in the high-
risk position of the proposed new guarantee program capital reserve, in order to achieve the
potential broad global benefit expected.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[ ] Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
] Cost effectiveness
[X] Incremental Cost
[ ] Other (specify)
Analysis of the incremental costs and the global environmental benefits of the project are outlined
in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
As described in Section Cl and Annex 2, the EMC Loan Guarantee Program will be
implemented by one or several Guarantee Program Implementing Agencies (IAs), based on
Implementation Agreements to be entered into between the Government and the lAs, and approved
by the Bank. Financial projections for the program of the IA(s) will be reviewed as part of the
review and approval of the various Implementation Agreements. Arrangements for the first
Implementation Agreement are being prepared by I&G, in collaboration with the Bank team and
the Government, and although this IA's documentation is likely to include a notional long-term
forecast of the possible evolution of the Program, the focus of formal financial appraisal will be on
the arrangements for the first 2-3 years.
In order to gauge the potential outcomes of the Program, the Bank team has modeled a ten-
year period of operating of the Guarantee Program, as designed and based on Chinese conditions,
working together with PMO, its consultants, and I&G staff. An "illustrative case" projection is
presented in Annex 5. Given the market uncertainties involved in this new Program, however, the
most important part of this analysis is the sensitivity analysis of the various key factors and risks
involved in the Program. This analysis is critical for determining both upside and downside
potential, and for detailed design of the incentives schemes for the IA. The analysis is presented in
Annex 5. Specific risks, which are quantified in the Annex, are also discussed in Section F below.
Fiscal Impact:
N/A
18



3. Technical:
EMCs need to focus on project concepts with minimal technical risk to obtain the best
retums, but they also need new ideas to develop market share. While most projects are expected to
involve well-proven technology and concepts, the EMC Service Component also includes specific
technical assistance to help EMCs develop new project opportunities.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Under the coordination of SETC's existing PMO, project implementation will be
undertaken by a new entity--the EMC Service Association--and by new project units in the
Implementing Agency or Agencies operating the Guarantee Program. Although successfully
achieved under the first project, such institution building is always a challenge, and is a major
focus of project preparation. Given the recent Govemment reforms and change in the reduction of
the role of government agencies such as SETC in project implementation, however, both the Bank
and Chinese teams feel strongly that the effort required for institutional building is necessary and
most worthwhile. The Energy Service Group is already formed, under the umbrella of the PMO, as
is capable of dispatching project implementation responsibilities (as it has done for the ASTAE-
DFID EMC Training Project in 2001 and 2002). Deliberate plans have been made for the
transformation of this Group into the permanent EMC Service Association. For the Guarantee
Program, the key will be: (a) flexibility to undertake practical arrangements with various entities,
as the Program and market develops; (b) the incremental approach, involving gradual development
of the business and step-by-step reviews and evaluations; (c) intensive preparations to develop
transactions during the first two years, which have already begun; and (d) provision of a program
of technical assistance and training for all concerned parties.
4.2 Project management:
Overall project coordination and day-to-day oversight of activities will be conducted by
SETC's PMO, which has been in effective operation since 1995. The PMO will assist the EMC
Service Group and Guarantee Company in matters relating to intemational donor/Bank project
management.
4.3 Procurement issues:
No procurement activities are involved in the capital reserve component of the EMC Loan
Guarantee Program, or in the incremental operating cost support to EMC Loan Guarantee Program
lAs and the EMC Service Group/Association. The project does include procurement of services, in
all three project components, which is discussed in detail in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Especially given the need for upfront disbursement of GEF funds for the EMC Guarantee
Program Special Fund, establishment of and monitoring mechanisms for suitable financial
management, control mechanisms and procedures, and audit requirements for the Fund have been a
major aspect of project preparation.  Annex 6 provides greater detail on this, as well as
arrangements for the other aspects of the project.
19



5. Environmental:   Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1  Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from
this analysis.
This financial intermediation project will result in major positive impacts on the
environment, in terms of improved energy efficiency, reduced air pollution, and reduce greenhouse
gas emissions. No major adverse environmental issues are associated with the project. The EMC
Loan Guarantee Program will indirectly support hundreds of small subprojects, which will be
identified during project implementation. Few, if any, will involve any negative environmental or
safety issues.
To both ensure that any potential negative environmental impacts are identified and
properly mitigated, and that energy savings and associated environmental benefits are properly
monitored and reported, the Environmental Review and Impacts chapter of the project's Operations
Manual has already been prepared, and reviewed and approved by the Bank. (Execution of the
Operations Manual, including the environment chapter, is also a condition of grant effectiveness.)
The chapter defines a procedure for Environmental Review of all EMC subprojects supported by
the EMC Loan Guarantee Program. The procedure requires EMCs to (a) screen subproject
according to an agreed Environmental Review Checklist, and (b) ensure that subproject host
enterprises receive review and approval of local Environmental Protection Bureaus for any
subprojects for which potential negative environmental impacts might exist. The Operational
Manual chapter also specifies a list of types of enterprises for which environmental hazards
preclude any form of guarantee program support. The Operations Manual chapter details a
procedure for reporting of energy savings and associated environmental benefits for all subprojects
supported by the Guarantee Program. Annex 12 shows the Flow Chart for Environmental
Clearance of Subprcijects in the Operations Manual chapter.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A. and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:  NA
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft
EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
As environmental benefits are the main objective of this project, the project key
performance indicators include systematic monitoring and reporting of energy savings and
greenhouse gas emissions reductions resulting from project activities.
20



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
No resettlement is anticipated in this project. No social hardships are anticipated as a
result of the project, which will support relatively minor industrial and commercial building energy
conservation retrofits and equipment renovation.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project design has included consultations with a wide range of stakeholders, in the central
and local government, research units, NGOs, and industrial, commercial and financial enterprises.
Through the efforts of the SETC's PMO, the emerging EMC Service Group, and the marketing
staff of the proposed Guarantee Program, major efforts are being initiated to increase awareness
about EMCs in general, and opportunities for project support in particular. Access to initial
technical assistance will be open to any interested parties. Access to more advanced training and
technical assistance also will be open and transparent, but will require a specified level of corporate
development.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other civil society organizations involved in energy efficiency in China are a
potentially important vehicle for marketing of the EMC concept and assisting groups to form EMC
business proposals.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                                       Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                             No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60) *          No
21



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The development of a self-sustaining (and growing) EMC industry in China is the
objective of this project. The project has been designed specifically to achieve this objective, by
aiming to involve dornestic banks as the financiers of the industry, thus completing the full
necessary market framework, and by developing a service-oriented EMC Association for mutual
EMC assistance.
A key goal of the EMC Service Component is to develop the EMC Service
Group/Association into a permanent institution. The Component and its project implementation
plan are being designed to best ensure that the Association is fully self-sustaining by the end of the
project, and able to operate effectively without outside revenue enhancement. The primary goal of
the EMC Loan Guarantee Program is to assist new EMCs to overcome initial barriers in obtaining
loan financing, and to develop domestic bank financing into the principal source of EMC credit.
The Guarantee Program operated by the IA should be able to provide EMC loan guarantees as long
as necessary.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of
Annex 1):
Establishment and operation of the new EMC Loan Guarantee Program is by its nature a
high risk proposition. Despite the successful initial demonstration, the EMC business is basically
new to China. Actively employed for less than a decade, the operation of credit guarantees by
specific guarantee companies also is relatively new in China, especially as a commercial as
opposed to a political/social instrument. The nature of the project conforms with GEF's contingent
grant financing model: while the initial risks of the Guarantee Program preclude its establishment
based on commercial investment, and it is expected that the full amount of the capital reserve will
not be retained through the end of the project, the design of the project to mitigate operational risks
as much as possible, and provide incentives for both maximum energy efficiency investment and
capital reserve retention, provides an excellent environment for an exceptionally high return in
terms of greenhouse gas emissions reductions. The main risks of the Program (also discussed in
detail in Annex 5), and accompanying adopted mitigation measures, include:
* Slower than expected development of EMC loan guarantee transactions. This could be
caused by (a) slower than expected establishmenit of new EMCs and/or slow growth in
their subproject investments, and/or (b) slow and cumbersome' development of guarantee
transactions, given the multiple players involved and newness of the business. These are
substantial risks; The EMC Service Component is designed specifically to assist new
EMCs to become established and to grow effectively. The EMC Service Group has begun
its training and technical assistance work well over one year in advance of planned project
effectiveness, benefiting from ASTAE-DfID support, which helps to defray the risk of
excessively slow start-up.  The EMC Service Group and I&G (the expected first
Implementing Agency or IA) have begun to develop the first 5-10 transactions for the
Guarantee Program, well in advance of project effectiveness. Additional ASTAE-DfID and
22



GEF financing support, as well as organizational efforts, have been made for a very
intensive effort to develop the new loan guarantee transactions during the first 2-3 years
involving the Bank team, the PMO, the EMC Service Group, the IA, the local banks and
the emerging EMCs.    Finally, the compensation/incentive scheme set forth in the
Guarantee Program Implementing Agreement for the IA will be tied to attainment of
specific performance indicators, which will be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, during
the formal annual Program reviews and the project mid-term reviews.
o  Poor market acceptance of the Program's guarantees. This is rated a moderate risk
because GEF funds will be disbursed upfront into the EMC Guarantee Program Special
Fund, and because I&G, which is the most well established guarantee company in China, is
expected to be assigned as IA at the outset of the project.
O  Lack of willingness of local banks to share EMC loan risks above token risk-sharing levels.
This is a substantial risk, especially in the early years of the Program, given the incomplete
banking reforms in China. Unwillingness by the banks to share a substantial portion of
credit risks will reduce the leverage achieved by the GEF resources, and slow the desired
eventual development of increasing direct local bank-EMC financing, without use of the
Guarantee Program. Although the pace of further banking sector reforms is uncertain and
outside of the control of this project, substantial reforms are expected over the next 3-5
years, which should improve the ability of banks to be compensated for incurring risk. The
Program also can mitigate this risk somewhat through early and intensive engagement of
local banks in the program, and by including incentives for the IA to maximize leverage of
the GEF resources.
o Insufficient market acceptance of guarantee fees at levels commensurate with risks and
costs. This is a substantial risk. Incomplete financial reforms have caused risk-adjusted
prices for credit to be artificially low. Program guarantee fees for the relatively risky parts
of the portfolio can only be raised over the current commonly accepted rates of 1.0-2.0%
gradually, as reforms proceed. Depending on the other operational results of the Program
(e.g. defaults and costs), this may cause modest losses to the capital reserve, and hence a
modest reduction in guarantee commitments which can be made against that reserve.
Overly aggressive pricing, however, will undermine the ability of the Program to meet its
primary objective of maximizing energy efficiency investments. Incentives measures will
be included in the Implementation Agreement with the IA to encourage maximum
guarantee revenue, requiring a balancing of efforts to maximize both transaction volume
and guarantee fee revenue per transaction. The effectiveness of such incentives during
initial operation will be reviewed at the first Project Mid-term Review.
o Excessive loan default rates. Unless properly mitigated, excessive default rates are a
substantial risk. Means to minimize defaults have been a key focus of both the Bank team
and the Government. Mitigation measures which will be adopted include: (a) structuring
of loans to EMCs with counter-guarantee, EMC equity collateral, and host-enterprise
subproject repayment arrangements which ensure that loan defaults are prohibitively costly
to EMCs; (b) structuring of loans to take full advantage of the risk mitigation opportunities
offered by energy performance contracting, through EMC portfolio diversification,
linkages of loans with energy performance contracts with strong host enterprises, etc.; (c)
some portion of risk-sharing by the local banks, who are best aware of local enterprise
strengths and weakness; (d) intensive technical assistance to the EMCs and local banks in
the preparation and review of transactions during the start-up years, including involvement
of the SETC's PMO and the Bank team; and (e) inclusion of a strong disincentive for
23



defaults, and incentives to recoup subrogation losses, in the compensation scheme
established with the IA.
*  Guarantee Program operating cost overruns. Unless properly mitigated, this also is a
substantial risk. Mitigation measures include explicit operating cost limitations in the
Implementation Agreement, cost-reduction incentives in the compensation scheme
established with the IA, and the incremental approach of the Program. Operating cost
issues will be an important aspect of the annual program reviews and project mid-term
reviews.
For the EMC Service Component, the principal risk is the risk of ineffective institutional
development. This risk is being mitigated through ongoing major capacity building investments
with ASTAE-DflD support, and the gradual and considered approach to the development of the
permanent EMC Service Association, led by the SETC and the EMC Development Steering
Committee (see Annex 2).
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified.
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A condition of effectiveness is that the Operations Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has
been duly adopted by the Recipient.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The following specific assurances, in addition to the general assurances in most other GEF
Grant Agreements, were obtained at project negotiations to include in the GEF Grant Agreement.
*  The Recipient will have all relevant records and accounts, including the project's Special
Account, audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, furnish
these to the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year, furnish to the
Bank other related information requested by the Bank, and retain relevant records. The
Recipient will also cause each Guarantee Program Implementing Agency to have the
records, accounts and financial statements of the EMC Guarantee Program Special Fund
audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, furnish these to
the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year, furnish to the Bank other
related information requested by the Bank, and retain relevant records.
* The Recipient will furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for he Project, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by the report, showing separately funds provided
under the Grant, and explaining variances between actual and planned uses of such funds.
The first report will be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first
semester after project Effectiveness, and every semester thereafter.
*  The Bank will have rights of suspension (pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General
Conditions), if (a) the Operations Manual is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived without the prior concurrence of the Bank, and this materially and adversely
24



affections the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under the Grant
Agreement, or (b) a Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement is amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior concurrence of the Bank, and
this materially and adversely affects the ability of he Recipient or Guarantee Program
Implementing Agency to perform any of their obligations under the Grant Agreement.
o  The Recipient will promptly refund, and/or cause a Guarantee Program Implementing
Agency to refund, to the Bank the GEF proceeds disbursed by the Bank, and the
investment income generated by the Special Fund, in whole or in part, at the Bank's
option, if (a) the Bank shall have determined that any payment made with GEF funds or
interest income generated therefrom was used for any expenditure not consistent with
provision of the Gant Agreement; (b) the Bank shall have determined that the Recipient or
a Guarantee Program Implementing Agency shall have failed to perform any obligations
consistent with the Grant Agreement or the respective Guarantee Program Implementation
Agreement; (c) expenditures from the GEF grant or from interest income generated
therefrom were made which are prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the UN Charter; (d) expenditures from the GEF grant
or interest income generated therefrom were made under contracts involving corrupt or
fraudulent practices by representatives of the Recipient or Guarantee Program
Implementing Agency, without timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to
remedy the situation; or (e) the Operations Manual, the charter of a Guarantee Program
Implementing Agency, or a Guaranty Implementation Agreement has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank,
would materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or attainment of its
objectives.
Concerning the EMC Service Component, assurances were obtained that the Recipient will,
through SETC:
o  Until the establishment of an EMC Service Association, maintain the EMC Service Group
with qualified and experienced management and competent staff in adequate numbers, with
terms of reference, funds and other resources acceptable to the Bank;
O  Cause the EMC Service Group by December 31, 2002 to prepare a time-bound Project
Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter implement said plan in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and
o  By December 31, 2003, establish a successor entity to the EMC Service Group,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be known as the EMC Service Association, and execute a
performance contract with the EMC Service Association, all in a manner and substance
acceptable to the Bank.
Concerning the Project Management and Monitoring Component, assurances were obtained that
the Recipient will, through SETC:
o Maintain its Project Management Office in SETC, with functions and sufficient and
adequate resources acceptable to the Bank and competent staff in adequate numbers,
including a qualified and experienced manager to coordinate, monitor and supervise the
implementation of the Project.
25



* Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of its objectives; and
* Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, (i)
semi-annually by May 31 and November 30 of each year, commencing May 31, 2003, and
(ii) on or about November 30, 2004 and April 30, 2007, reports integrating the results of
agreed monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of
the Project in the future period. The Recipient should review with the Bank the two Mid -
Term Project reports referred to above by January 31, 2005 and June 30, 2007, and take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project based on the
conclusions and recommendations of these reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
Concerning the EMC Loan Guarantee Program, assurances were obtained that:
* The Recipient will (i) Execute a Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement, in form
and substance acceptable to the Bank, with at least one Guarantee Program Implementing
Agency and, for each executed Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement, furnish the
Bank with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that said Guarantee Program Implementation
Agreement between the Recipient and a Guarantee Program Implementing Agency has
been duly authorized and executed in compliance with the provisions of this Agreement;
and (ii ) subsequent to the execution of Each Guarantee Program Implementation
Agreement, establish with the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, a Special Fund in
respect of said Guarantee Program Implementing Agency, which Agreement shall provide
for, inter alia: (A) the ownership of the said Special Fund by the Recipient; and (B) the
guidelines and procedures for the management and operation of the said Special Fund by
the Guarantee Program Implementing Agency with which the Recipient executes a
Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement.
*  No withdrawals will be made for the EMC Loan Guarantee Program disbursement
category until the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that a
Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement between the Recipient and a Guarantee
Program Implementing Agency, acceptable to the Bank, has been duly authorized and
executed in compliance with the provisions of the GEF Grant Agreement and is valid and
enforceable in accordance with its terms.
*  Each of the Guarantee Program Implementation Agreements shall include the terms and
conditions detailed in Schedule 6 of the Grant Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank. (These
terms and conditions are detailed in Annex 2 of the PAD.)
*  Except for such portions for which a refund to the Bank is required (see above), the
Recipient may keep in perpetuity Grant proceeds disbursed to it under the EMC Guarantee
Program Special Funds category, but only for the purposes of: (i) continuing the EMC
loan guarantee program as set forth in the Grant Agreement, or (i) using such funds in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with a plan provided to the Bank by
December 31, 2009 for the future use of such funds, consistent with the objectives of
reducing greenhouse gas emission in China, and revised as necessary by the Closing Date
to fully incorporate the comments of the Bank.
26



H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
1. b)    Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[ I   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[X]   The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
On August 2, 2002 senior management approved a waiver of the requirements under
OP12.00 and OP14.40 that the Bank follow its normal policies and procedures relating to
disbursements from the GEF Trust Fund into the EMC Guarantee Program Special Fund. The
upfront disbursement into the Fund, although in tranches, is not for goods, works or services, but
rather as a contingent capital reserve held in the event of guarantee defaults. Such disbursement is
essential for this project to proceed, in order for the Guarantee Program to have credibility in the
market, capacity to underwrite credit risk of participating banks, and to meet subrogation claims in
full when they arise. Similar waivers have been grated for a series of GEF biodiversity project,
also involving the capitalization of funds with GEF resources.
Robert      I              M. Farhandi                 Yuk       ng
Team Leader                Acting Sector Director      Co6Ary Manager/Dire oor
27



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
Key Performance Indicators  Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:           Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Alleviate infrastructure constraints  Quantified energy savings  Guarantee Program     CAS and GEF Objectives to
2. Promote enterprise competitiveness  Quantified C02 emission  Implementation Agency and  Bank Mission: Promotion of
and efficiency                     reductions from EE investments EMC Service Association  environmentally sustainable
3. Safeguard the environment                                   reports                    and commercial energy
I services and development
GEF Operational Program:
Removal of barriers to EE (OP 5)
Global Objective:                  Outcome / Impact Indicators:  Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Development Objective:             Total investments of EMC    PMO, EMC Service Association Development and Global
Achieve cost-effective improvements in industry                and project management      Objectives to CAS
EE on a commercially sustainable basis  Number of profitable EMCs in  reports; Supervision missions  Stable macroeconom'ic
Global Objective:                  operation                   and reports                conditions
Sustainable removal of commercial  Energy savings and CO2                                 Ongoing reforms in state-
barriers to EE investments         emission reductions from EMC                           owned enterprises
projects
Output from each Component:        Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
1. Increased commercial investments in  1. I Total investment of EMC  Guarantee Program   Increasing lending of
EMC                                projects supported by guarantee Implementation Agency, EMC  commercial banks to EMCs
projects                           facility                    Service Association and project Sufficient creditworthy
1.2 Number of EMC projects  management reports;        enterprises to sustain EMC
supported by guarantee facility  Supervision missions and  industry
1.3 Number of participating  reports                   EMC access to quality EE
banks                                                  technologies and know-how
2. Increased capacity for EMC industry  2.1 Number of EMCs
to identify and implement EE projects  implementing projects
2.2 Number of EMCs and staff
trained
Project Components / Sub-components:  Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
component)                                             Outputs)
1. EMC loan guarantee program      I. Capital grant of US$22   Guarantee Program          Commercial banks willing to
million equivalent; final grant of Implementation Agency, EMC  accept partial guarantees for
US$3-7 million expected     Service Association and project EMC projects
management reports;         Investors willing to establish
Supervision missions and    new EMCs
reports                     Ability of new EMCs to
operate successfully
2. EMC Service Association         2. US$1.6 million equivalent
grant
3. Project Monitoring, Reporting and  3. US$600,000 equivalent
Evaluation
28



Key Performance Indicators and Monitoring Methods
The key indicators of success in achieving the stated project development objectives are
the total annual energy efficiency investments generated by EMCs, and associated annual energy
savings and reductions in carbon dioxide emissions.
The project performance indicators on total annual energy efficiency investments
generated by EMCs are based on the business plans developed for the EMC loan guarantee
program and the EMC Association. These investment targets also were used for the incremental
cost analysis and environmental benefits.
In the project team's "best estimate" business plan, coefficients for energy savings (12.71
tce/US$'000/yr) and carbon reductions (8.46 tc/US$'000/yr) as well as the average life of
equipment (9.2 years) were derived from detailed analysis of the more than 141 EMC subprojects
commissioned under the first Energy Conservation Project. For the key performance indicators,
however, somewhat more conservative estimates were used, given major uncertainties conceming
the fuel mix saved, fuel prices, and the electricity generation source mix. For example, based on
the subprojects commissioned under the first Energy Conservation Project by mid-2002, electricity
savings projects save an average of 5.27 tce/US$'000/year compared with coal-saving projects with
22.96 tce/US$'000/year. Therefore, a coefficient of 10 tce/US$'000/yr has been used.
Performance Indicators for
Energy-efficiency Investments, Energy Savings and Reductions of Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Generated by EMCs
Project Year
1      2       3      4       5      6       7      Total
Total Investments      14.4   22.2   38.0    62.4   80.2    82.4    84.8     384
(million USD)
Energy savings         1.3    2.0     3.5     5.7    7.4    7.6     7.8     35.3
(million tce)
Carbon reduction       0.9     1.4    2.3    3.8     4.9    5.0     5.2     23.5
(million t)
Note: Investments are investments during the project period only. Energy savings and carbon reductions
are the total amounts which will be directly generated by the investments, over the estimated life of the
equipment installed.
Total actual energy savings and associated carbon dioxide reductions achieved from all
EMC subprojects will be reported by the guarantee program and EMC association in their biannual
reports. Actual energy savings for each EMC and each subproject are relatively easy to monitor,
since stipulated and confirmed energy savings are a key aspect of the energy performance contracts
to be used.
In addition to these key project performance indicators, a number of other quantitative and
qualitative indicators will be monitored by the Guarantee Program Implementation Agency, EMC
Association and PMO, and reported in all regular project reports.
For the Guarantee Program Implementation Agency, the indicators to be monitored and
reported include, at a minimum: (a) number and total value of guarantee commitments, guaranteed
loans, and associated energy efficiency investments generated, together with information on the
terms, duration, cumulative balances, etc. of these transactions; (b) number and amounts of
29



defaults, and net subrogation losses; (c) total Fund revenue (e.g., including both fee and interest
income); (d) total operating costs and average operating costs per transaction; (e) net income from
the Program; (f) number and types of beneficiaries; and (g) number and description of participating
banks, including infonnation on related loans and guarantee commitments.
For the EMC Association, indicators to be monitored and reported include, at a minimum:
(a) total number of EMCs operating in China, and their basic characteristics, including equity
holdings; (b) number and characteristics of EMC Association members; (c) EMC Association costs
and revenues; and (d) number of EMCs participating in training events.
30



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ClH[lNA: Second Energy Conservation Project
The proposed project includes three components: (a) an EMC Service Component,
designed primarily to provide in-depth, practical technical assistance to new and emerging EMCs
on development of their businesses, (b) the Project Management and Monitoring Component, to
support central coordination, monitoring and reporting of project activities, and (c) an EMC Loan
Guarantee Program, designed to provide new and emerging EMCs with enhance opportunities to
receive loans from domestic banks, and to engage the banks in the development of a sustainable
EMC industry.
EMC SERVICE COMPONENT
This component consists of a large capacity building and technical assistance program to
raise broad awareness of the EMC mechanism, assist new EMC to develop into established
businesses, and help develop policy support. EMC service activities have already begun, with
about $2.5 million of support through an associated technical assistance projects executed by the
Bank's Asia Alternative Energy Programme (ASTAE) and financed by the Department for
Intemational Development (DflD) of the United Kingdom. Under the five-year implementation
period, this component includes GEF financing of $1.6 million equivalent. Although some
international technical assistance will also be involved, the primary focus will be to rely on Chinese
experts and business people who are well versed in the development of Chinese EMCs and their
potential to assist new, emerging companies. The component includes the development of the
EMC Service Group into a permanent, self-sustaining institution, to implement this function over
the short and long term. The Bank reviewed and appraised the general project implementation plan
and its five-year budget during project appraisal. Additional work program details are being
prepared by the Group, and will be completed satisfactory to the Bank by then end of December
2002.
The EMC Service Group/Association and Steering Committee
The SETC formed the EMC Development and Service Group (EMC Service Group) in
March 2001, operating under the umbrella of the State Economic and Trade Commission's (SETC)
Project Management Office (PMO) of the World Bank/GEF China Energy Conservation Project.
As of project appraisal in April 2002, the EMC Service Group included 6 full-time employees.
Prior to the end of 2003, and following the expansion and further development of its EMC
members, the EMC Service Group will be transformed into a permanent entity, independent from
the PMO and govemment, dedicated to providing service to its EMC members. The permanent
service institution will act as a service oriented trade association, and should be financially self-
sustaining after project completion. Although described in this report as the "EMC Service
Association", the new institution may or may not be formed as an Association under Chinese law,
given that Associations in China operate differently than in many other countries.
The function of the EMC Service Group/Association is to provide service to new and
emerging EMCs, including:
o Developing and implementing a massive and detailed training program for new and
developing EMCs, in line with needs expressed by them, including assistance in EMC
establishment, corporate structuring and identification of types of corporate partners,
31



assistance in project identification and development, assistance in overcoming operational
problems, etc. Training will include customized technical assistance to specific EMCs, in
addition to training courses, workshops and seminars;
*  Acting as an advocate of the EMC industry in China, and recommending policy and
support activities to the Govemment, international institutions, and other key groups,
which will foster healthy industry growth;
*  Preparing and disseminating basic information conceming the EMC business throughout
China;
*  Recruiting new  Association Members, and developing feedback mechanisms for
improving member services and developing new services; and
*  Meeting and coordinating with financial institutions to introduce the EMC business, to
explain perfommance contracting, and to discuss potential roles and benefits of financial
institution participation.
Measures of the EMC Association's effectiveness will include the number of commercial
EMCs operating successfully, volume of energy efficiency investments implemented through EMC
activities, number of EMC members and revenues generated by the EMC Association to ensure its
sustainability. Qualitative performance assessments of the EMC Association and its products will
be conducted through EMC member/participant surveys and interviews.
In addition to SETC, the EMC Service Group is operating with the advisory assistance of
the EMC Development Steering Committee, also formed in March 2001. The Steering Committee
is a high-level group, established to guide the overall development of China's EMC industry. The
group includes highly-respected active or former senior officials concemed with energy policy and
energy conservation, bank managers, authorities form the electricity utility industry, officials
involved in taxation and auditing, a legal representative, and business people from the energy
conservation industry. The Steering Committee meets at least four times a year, and its Vice-
Chairman is working about half-time on Steering Committee tasks. The Steering Committee's
work program includes a number of site visits every year, and a research of specific operational
topics confronting the EMC industry from time to time. The responsibilities of the Steering
Committee include:
*  To direct the operation of the EMC Service Group;
*  To guide the accomplishment of a strategic development plan for EMCs industry;
*  To scrutinize, monitor, and assess the business operation of the three demonstration EMCs,
and to summarize and comment on their accumulated experience;
*  To evaluate the training course plans and implementation by the EMC Service Group, and
assess actual results achieved;
*  To coordinate with relative govemment policy-makers, with the objective to create a
harmonious environment for EMCs development; and
*  To boost and attract potential EMCs, and to seek potential EMCs partnership, in part
through support of individual Committee members.
Near-term Work Plrogram
The EMC Association's work program during March 2001-December 2003 focuses
particularly on the establishment of its large-scale training program and some other services, and
definition of its institutional future. The Group's work during this period is supported in large part
by ASTAE's DflD supported technical assistance, but also with a portion of the GEF resources.
This is a critical time period for the Group/Association, in terms of its institutional establishment
32



and identity, development of relationships with its members, and investment in customized
materials, curricula and training personnel for a series of EMC training course and workshops. The
work program includes:
EMC Service Association Development. Working together with SETC, the EMC Service
Group, the EMC Steering Committee, and the member EMCs must decide on and build the
institutional future of the Group/Association, including legal establishment of the permanent
institution, governance arrangements, membership criteria, organization of service provision,
specifics of annual revenue development and financial plans, etc. An international workshop was
held in Beijing in September 2001 to review the experience of national ESCO Associations in other
countries, and lessons learned relevant to the Chinese situation. The Group is now enlarging its
international contacts, and developing its institutional plans, beginning with the completion of a
more detailed Project Implementation Plan for this project.
EMC Training Program. With over 200 Chinese firms registering interest in training
already, and more expected, training of prospective EMC staff is an urgent and massive task.
During 2001, the design for a series of customized courses and workshops was completed,
including an introductory course, and three advanced workshops-one  for EMC General
Managers on corporate development and business planning, one for EMC Project Managers, on the
development and implementation of energy performance contracting projects, and one for EMC
Financial Directors, on EMC portfolio risk management and EMC financial planning and
accounting. The courses and workshops are being developed basically from scratch, with highly
customized materials for the Chinese market based largely on EMC experience in China to date.
The advanced courses, in particular, utilize some case study and business school presentational
methods. Once the specific curricula and training materials have been developed and tested, it is
planned to hold each course and workshop several times each year for the foreseeable future. By
the end of June, 2002, the introductory course had been successfully delivered four times. Initial
materials and curricula for the three advanced workshops also had been completed and each of
these three courses had been successfully delivered.
EMC Financial Technical Assistance. Working together with the Implementing Agency
for the EMC Loan Guarantee Program, the EMC Service Group also will pursue a series of
activities to raise awareness concerning the EMC industry in local banks, to help bank officials to
understand the details of the business, and to provide EMCs with customized technical assistance
in their preparation of applications or loan finance.. During 2002 and early 2003, workshops will
be held with financial industry representatives to introduce the EMC industry and its business
opportunities. Customized technical assistance and training will also be provided to banking
officials concerning how to review EMC business plans, and loan restructuring options. On the
EMC side, the EMC Service Group will organize assistance on the preparation of business plans
for specific credit applications, on means to meet bank loan criteria and the criteria of this project's
EMC Loan Guarantee Program, and on the processing of such applications. This technical
assistance is also essential for the development of the EMC Loan Guarantee Program pipeline.
Additional Activities. Additional planned activities of the EMC Service Group during
2002-3 include (a) activities to provide EMCs with information on new business opportunities,
including state-of-the art-technologies abroad which offer good potential for EMC applications in
China, and means to develop new, integrated and full-service EMC project concepts; (b)
organization of workshops and other "match-making" mechanisms to facilitate foreign-local
ESCO joint ventures, bank-EMC partnerships, and EMC-equipment supplier alliances which can
capitalize on the comparative advantages in developing new EMCs; and (c) initiation of an EMC
33



marketing effort to all sectors in China, to further sensitize potential customers and to increase
awareness among local government entities.
Medium-term Work Program
Whereas the 2001-2003 near-term work program involves investment in developing the
basic capacity of the EMC Service Group/Association, the medium-term work program (continuing
until late 2007) involves steady delivery of EMC services, and transformation of the EMC
Association into a self-sustaining, permanent entity. Key tasks include the "regularization" of the
EMC Association's work, development and expansion of the Association's revenue, and
expansion of EMC membership and the Association's market presence.  The Association's
expenditures will decline, as the upfront capacity-building investments of the ASTAE-DflD
projects will have concluded. The primary sources of financial support will be GEF support and
the Association's own revenues (see Figure 1).
The principal activities comprising the medium-term work program include:
*  Continued delivery of training courses and workshops, including both the introductory
training course and the advanced workshops, based on demand in the market and demand
from EMC members;
*  Continued offering of customized technical assistance and advisory assistance to EMC
members, especially on access to credit financing;
*  EMC membership meetings and expositions, to enable EMC members to exchange
experiences, to disseminate information on new business opportunities and business
models, and to disseminate information about the EMC industry to society as a whole;
*  Publication and dissemination of newsletter and specific information pieces of interest to
EMC members, utilizing website and hard copy dissemination practices;
*  Provision of EMC certification services, as requested and developed together with the
EMC membership;
*  Development of a sophisticated member service request and response function, including a
database for member use;
*  Policy research and advocacy with relevant Government agencies, in the interest of the
growing EMC industry; and
*  Monitoring of EMC industry development, and reporting on EMC industry growth and
trends to the Government, World Bank and GEF, based on mnarket surveys, database
compilation and field investigations.
EMC Service Component Costs and Financing
The total estimated costs of the EMC Service Component, including pre-project costs
supported by ASTAE-DflD financing, are about $4.96 million equivalent, as shown in Table 1.
ASTAE-DfID financing comprises about $2.5 million, GEF financing $1.6 million equivalent, and
Association revenue about $0.86 million. As shown in Figure 1, the ASTAE-DflID financing
supports mainly upfront capacity building costs and investments, including, in particular, the
development of the customized training program for continued use in future years. The GEF
financing provides support for some continued investment in capacity building, and assists the
EMC Service Association to make the transition to a permanent entity, which can be self-sustained
through its own revenues.
34



Table 1: Preliminary EMC Service Group/Association GEF Budget
GEF Budget       Total Cost
Component                                    (UJSD million   (USD million)
equivalent)
EMC Services
EMC training courses                       0.15           1.38
Customized EMC TA and advisory services    0.13           0.95
EMC membership meetings/expos              0.16           0.47
Policy research/advocacy                   0.06           0.10
EMC partnerships, business development     0.06           0.49
EMC publications, certification services   0.07           0.15
Sub-total                                        0.63            3.53
Institutional Development
Core costs                                 0.55           0.87
Business plan development, marketing,      0.16           0.25
website
Staff Training/Twinning                    0.06           0.10
Sub-total                                        0.77            1.21
Monitoring and Reporting
EMC market surveys, database               0.12           0.14
Project inspections, monitoring, reporting  0.08           0.08
Sub-total                                        0.20            0.22
TOTAL                                             1.60           4.96
Revenue generation. Development of EMC Service Association revenue will take time,
and the Association's revenues are expected to grow only gradually. The ASTAE-DfID and GEF
support will allow the Association to gain a jump-start, and provide a mechanism for the delivery
of the massive EMC training and technical assistance required for the industry to develop.
Association revenue development requires both further development of the EMC industry into a
true membership base, and establishment of the Association's credibility within the market as a
true service-oriented entity, providing services which are worth paying for. Increasingly over the
project implementation period, the Association will develop revenues, from its membership and
other sources, to sustain its costs, including the costs of engaging outside expertise. It is a clear
project requirement that the Group/Association must be fully self-sustaining from these revenue
sources by the end of the five-year period. Revenue development is expected to be only gradual in
the Chinese environment, where many "associations" developed in the past have provided little if
any real service to membership. Thus, the Association must demonstrate that it can provide high
quality and relevant services to its members and clearly demonstrate its value added to their
businesses. The Association's advanced training courses, for example, must first gain a high
reputation before many participants will be willing to pay substantial fees for the privilege of
attending.
Association revenue sources may include member dues, revenues from member meetings
and exposition fees, fees for at least the advanced training courses, advisory service fees, fees for
EMC certification, publication and exposition advertising, certain consulting fees, and Government
or international agency or company financing for specific activities or research tasks.
GEF financing. Details of GEF financed aspects are also included in Table 1. GEF grant
would support about 32% of the total costs of the EMC Service Component (including pre-project
35



costs supported by ASTAE-DfID). GEF financing levels estimated in Table 1 assume allocation of
$200,000 equivalent from the project's unallocated disbursement category. (Allocation of the
$200,000 equivalent is contingent upon needs and results, relative to other project components.)
GEF support would include:
*  $770,000 equivalent to support long-term consultants and the incremental operating costs
of the EMC Group/Association, including a portion of fixed-temn personnel costs, office
and travel costs for the Association, staff training and twinning arrangements, and support
for the development of the Association's business plans, marketing efforts and website
information dissemination. This represents about 64% of the estimated institutional costs
of the Association, with the balance coming from Association revenues. The share of
GEF-supported incremental operating cost financing will decline each year over the five-
year project implementation period, in favor of Association revenues, until reaching zero
after Year 5 (see Figure 1).
* $630,000 equivalent to support about 18% of the costs of providing specific EMC
Association services, including, in particular, the delivery of the training courses and
workshops, customized technical assistance and advisory services, and membership
meetings and expositions.
* $200,000 equivalent for monitoring and reporting on the development of the EMC industry
in China, as a ciitical input into this project's overall Monitoring and Evaluation reporting,
as required by the Govemment, World Bank, and GEF.
Figure 1
EMC Group Funding Arrangements
$1,200-
$1,000 
$800-
0
060
{,3   $600              X        -
8            : ~~UK-        ~>                :   _
$200                     GEF              I .
-2    -1    0     1     2     3     4     5    6     7
Project Year
PROJECT MONITORING, REPORTING AND EVALUATION COMPONENT
36



The SETC's PMO will assume responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the overall
Project, including both the EMC Service Component and the EMC Loan Guarantee Program. The
key functions of the PMO, which will be supported with GEF financing of $600,000 equivalent to
engage necessary expert services, include:
*  Coordinating, compiling and preparing project reports, including biannual project progress
reports need for the supervision of the project by the Government and the Bank, and mid-
term project reports. The PMO should review and compile progress reports from both the
EMC Service Association and the Guarantee Program Implementing Agency, perform
periodic inspections and audits as required, prepare full reports on the energy and carbon
savings from the project as well as other project performance indicators, address
implementation issues with SETC and the implementing agencies, and other project
oversight activities as required. Based on, and including detailed information from the
transactions of the Guarantee Program Implementing Agency and from the databases and
surveys of the EMC Service Association (based on separate and specific monitoring and
reporting procedures and budgets of those entities), the PMO will have oversight and
reporting responsibility for the major project monitoring and evaluation aspects of the
project These reports will include aggregate investment figures, number of EMCs and
EMC projects supported, total energy saved, and total carbon emissions reduced from
EMC projects through EMC and customer surveys, project inspections, and reporting This
reporting will be a key input for the Bank's project supervision work.
*  Maintaining the project's Special Account, oversight of project disbursements, monitoring
of financial management under the project, and preparation (or compilation from the inputs
of other project entities) of all required financial reporting to the Bank. The PMO also will
be responsible for oversight of the procurement of services under all components of the
project, and direct liaison with the Bank on these procurement matters.
* Engaging sufficient expertise to assist the Government in the supervision of the EMC Loan
Guarantee Program. The PMO will operate the bank account for the EMC Guarantee
Program Special Fund, for SETC. By engaging suitable expertise, the PMO will need to
assist SETC in most of the detailed supervision responsibilities of the Program and
account, including review of annual plans and budgets.
EMC LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM
Background
China's Banking System and its Reform. China's banking system currently includes (a)
several large policy banks (e.g., the State Development Bank), (b) four very large state-owned
commercial banks (China Industrial and Commercial Bank, Bank of China, China construction
Bank, and China Agricultural Bank), (c) a series of relatively new joint-stock commercial banks
(e.g, the Bank of Communications, CITIC Industrial Bank, China Everbright Bank, Huaxia Bank,
China Minsheng Banking Corporation, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, Merchant's Bank
etc.), and (d) a series of local municipal banks. A number of foreign banks have begun operations
in China, but with limited scope. The financial system also includes a large number of Trust and
Investment Corporations (TICs), who have provided a series of financial services, especially at
local levels. Many of the TICs, however, are being restructured or are suspending operations, as
regulation of these entities has increased in recent years.
37



China's banking sector is in the midst of a critical transition from operation under the
planned economy to true commercial, market-based banking. This transition will still require years
to complete. The legacy of the past era where the Government directed lending policies through
the banks, and maintained a key role in lending decisions, still leaves an imprint on the sector-the
four large state-owned banks in particular retain high ratios of non-performing loans in their
portfolios, and prospects for repayment from heavily debt ridden state-owned enterprises are often
dim. In addition, the interest rates which banks are allowed to charge are regulated within a fairly
narrow band by the People's Bank of China. Thus, banks are not allowed to vary the price of loans
substantially, based on variations in risk. Therefore, the combination of a history of relatively poor
loan repayment and inability to charge for risk have caused the banks to now be exceptionally
conservative in their lending policies.  Loan collateral and guarantee requirements are
exceptionally stringent; as interest returns are similar regardless of risk, Chinese banks currently
tend to focus on maximizing loan security.
With China's entry into the World Trade Organization (WTO), and the pressure and
momentum of financial sector reform building, substantial progress in reform of the sector is
expected during the life of the proposed project. Interest rate regulations are expected to be
loosened for small and medium-sized enterprise loans in particular, but the timing of these reforms
remains uncertain. WTO entry will bring an increased presence and expanded business scope for
foreign banks in China over the next 3-5 years, and associated competitive pressures. Chinese
banks are becoming keenly interested in customer relations and other measures to maintain or
increase market share among creditworthy customers. Developments in these areas will be
important for this project.
China's Emerging Credit Guarantee Systems.   China's first specialized guarantee
institution, China National Investment and Guaranty Co., Ltd. (I&G) was established in 1993. As
it began operations, the Guarantee Law of China was promulgated, as the basic law governing the
guarantee business. However, the guarantee business has begun to develop commercially on a
substantial basis only during the last few years. I&G's guarantee business grew sharply in 2000.
Additional guarantee companies also have formed recently, although not at national levels, and
most of the new guarantee companies are quite small and have small geographic scope. Although
still a very new addition in China's financial sector, the business has grown recently, with
government encouragement, especially as a means of assisting small and medium-sized enterprises
to gain access to credit in the current conservative credit environment.
Rationale for a Loan Guarantee Program. As described in the main text, China's new
and emerging EMCs face major difficulties in securing credit for growth in China's conservative
credit market, given that they are operating under a new business model with little track record, and
most are small enterprises with few assets. Especially under the current financial system, a
specialized partial credit guarantee is the most appropriate way to overcome this barrier to growth,
given (a) the existence of credit risk barriers, (b) the current conservative credit and lending
practices; and (ii) the fact that funds are available in the capital market which are not being
deployed. The guarantee mechanism is intended to induce banks to enter this market and deploy
their own resources to finance EMC projects, and, generally, to overcome the credit risk barriers
and demonstrate the viability of these types of projects. Guarantees are appropriate to use when
financial resources are available in the market, but need an incentive to be deployed. Energy
efficiency markets are often plagued by a mismatch between what constitutes a technically and
financially sound energy efficiency project versus what constitutes a creditworthy bankable project.
Further, in developing financial markets, gaps often exist between perceived credit risks, as
reflected in credit underwriting practices, and actual credit risks. These may arise due to financial
38



conditions within the banking system and/or within the universe of prospective borrowers.
Commercially oriented guarantees can help bridge these gaps.
Suitable loan guarantee facilities for EMC projects are not available in China. China's
loan guarantee industry is relatively new, underdeveloped, regionally focused and largely directed
towards promoting other specific public policy objectives. Many of the existing companies
guarantee 100% of loan amounts, removing any real risk from the banks involved. Guarantee fees
charged to date are often quite low (often 1% of the guarantee exposure per year), but counter-
guarantee requirements (collateral and/or third party suretyships) are often very stringent, and
similar to those of the commercial banks (perhaps undermining the rationale for the guarantee
programs in the first place).
The proposed loan guarantee program aims to develop the EMC market while eventually
earning a market return (as opposed to making purely development-oriented investments.)
Additional requirements include national coverage, and a mechanism which increasingly involves
the domestic banking industry as the primary source of credit for the EMC industry.
EMC Loan Guarantee Program Objectives and Scope
The goal of the EMC Loan Guarantee Program is to facilitate access to domestic
commercial credit for the broad, strong and sustained development of China's new EMC industry.
The objective is to achieve maximum EMC investment in energy efficiency over the long term.
To achieve this, the program must seek to (a) maximize guarantee transactions, leveraging capital
resources as much as possible, to facilitate as much lending to EMCs as possible; (b) preserve its
capital base, through commercially-oriented operation, in order to maintain resources for revolving,
long-term use; and (c) engage and strengthen the involvement of domestic banks in the program as
much as possible, so that the banks become increasingly familiar and comfortable with lending to
the EMC industry, and are increasingly willing to undertake EMC credit risks themselves.
The Guarantee Program will support a wider range of EMC business models than under the
first China Energy Conservation Project, supporting loans for a wide variety of energy efficiency
projects. To qualify for Guarantee Program support, however, projects supported by loans
guaranteed by the Program must be structured so that: (a) more than one-half of the project
cashflow benefits are derived from reductions in host enterprise energy bills; and (b) host
enterprises maintain positive cash flow in respect to the project.
The Guarantee Program will provide partial credit risk guarantees to applying banks and
EMCs for up to 80-90% of the loan principal amount initially, and declining amounts over time.
The Program will be open to any potential applicants operating EMCs in China. A variety of loan
and guarantee structures are possible, with types of security potentially involving EMC assets,
collateral and diversified portfolio security; third-party partial counter-guarantees; and various
methods for using specific EMC contracts with host enterprises as security.
EMC Loan Guarantee Program Structure
Key design criteria for the Guarantee Program included (a) maximum flexibility to adjust
and adapt to both the uncertainties of the new and evolving EMC market and the uncertainties of
the pace and depth of China's banking sector reforms, (b) needs for national coverage, (c) needs for
maximum guarantee credibility in the Chinese financial market, and (d) needs to maximize the
breadth and depth of the involvement of the banks in extending credit to EMCs over time.
39



The Guarantee Program will be operated by a Guarantee Program Implementing Agency
(IA), according to a Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement between the IA and the
Government, which must be approved by the Bank. It is expected that one IA will be appointed at
the outset of the project, and, if operations proceed satisfactorily, this IA would be expected to
continue operations throughout the project. However, Program lAs could change over the tenure
of the project if necessary, and it is possible in principle that more than one IA could operate the
Program at the same time.
In order to allow proper flexibility to adjust to evolution of the EMC industry, evolving
banking sector reformn, and the gradual strengthening of capacity in the IA, local financing
institutions and EMCs, the Guarantee Program will be implemented step-by-step, through a process
of implementation, review, adjustment, and further implementation. The IA will prepare annual
plans and budgets every year, which will be reviewed by SETC and its PMO, together with the
Bank, and adjusted where necessary. The initial 2-3 year implementation phase will involve
intensive, customized work to implement the first guarantee transactions of the Program, through
intensive cooperation between the Bank team, SETC's PMO, the EMC Service Group,
participating banks, interested EMCs and the Program IA. A first Mid-term Review is schedule for
this project after the first two years. At this point, the Program experiences will be fully reviewed,
and following this review, adjustments to IA arrangements, specific Program rules, targets,
management methods, etc., can be made. If the arrangements with the IA are considered
satisfactory, the Implementation Agreement with that IA will continue. A second Mid-term Review
also is scheduled to take place after four and one half years of project implementation, involving a
similar scope.
Chinese Government counterparts and the Bank team have considered a variety of possible
options for Implementing Agencies, involving review over many months, and proposals and
discussions with many parties. In addition to the option of establishing an independent Foundation
to operate the Program, which was rejected early on due to legal complexities in the Chinese
system, options considered for Program operation included: (a) formation of a new guarantee
company; (b) appointment of an existing guarantee company to operate the program under
supervision of the Government and the Bank; and (c) deposit of the funds with one or several
participating banks to supportlguarantee the extension of credit to EMCs.
Following systematic review of these options, the China National Investment and Guaranty
Co. (I&G) was selected to complete detailed preparations for assignment as IA for the Start-up
Phase. All parties concluded that assignment of an existing guarantee company, if possible, would
be the best option for the program, allowing wide bank involvement and coverage, and avoiding
the complexities and needs to develop market credibility which would accompany the
establishment of a new company. I&G is the only national. guarantee company with a long track
record and experience, and its credibility in the market is well established. I&G has a keen interest
in developing this new, specialized business. Preparations are underway so that a Guarantee
Program Implementation Agreement can executed by the parties and approved by the Bank prior to
execution of the GEF Grant Agreement for this project.
GEF support for the EMC Loan Guarantee Program will be provided through the World
Bank as a grant to the Government of China. The Government of China, represented by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC), will-use the grant
funds to support the Guarantee Program through (a) the establishment and operation of an EMC
Guarantee Program Special Fund ($22.0 million equivalent of GEF funds), and (b) provision of
grant funds to the IA. for incremental operating costs and technical assistance services ($1.8 million
40



equivalent of GEF funds). The structure of the program and low of funds are depicted in Figure 2
below.
Figure 2: Structural Overview of the EMC Loan Guarantee Program
IGEF     I
Withdrawals and                                               ank
deposits based on
Implementaflon                                                $
Agreement                                         Ministry of Finance
Guarantee Program                    EMC Guarantee      GEF funds
Implementing                       Program Special                1   State Economic &
Agency                               Fund                          Trade CoImission
Grant for Incremental Operating Cost & TA
Loan Guarantees                                                                      GEF grant
...................................... ... .......................... ............... .-. .  fu n d s
Participating    v V         .                       technical assistance
Banks                                          .............                    EM C
Service
Loans                                                  Association
Rm        V Rrb                technical assistance
EMCs & Host Enterprises
EMC Guarantee Special Fund
The EMC Program Guarantee Special Fund is the fund against which guarantee
commitments under the EMC Loan Guarantee Program will be made. GEF funds of $22 million
equivalent will be deposited into this reserve to support the program. (If more than one
Implementation Agency participates in the program, then additional similar Funds will be created.)
The IA also will share in the risks and upsides of the program, by making contributions to the
reserve fund, by assuming a portion of default risk relating to the leveraging of the reserve with
guarantee commitments over and above the reserve balance, and/or a combination of these. Fund
resources will be place in a first-loss position for the program's guarantees.
The capital reserve will be set up as a "special fund" (zhuanxiang zijin), according to the
Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement. A maximum of 50% of the total amount allocated
under a Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement will be disbursed when the Agreement is
executed, followed with disbursement of additional tranches of up to 25% each once guarantee
commitments total at least the level of previous disbursements. The funds remain the property of
the Government of China, represented by MOF, but are managed by the IA according to the
regulations specified in the Implementation Agreement, developed specifically for the needs of this
project. Program guarantees can be made for applications from (a) EMCs which are members of
the EMC Service Association, or (b) other qualifying companies submitting sound energy
performance contract projects. Eligible energy efficiency projects are projects where (i) over 50
41



percent of the project's cash flow benefits are derived from reductions in the host enterprise energy
bills; and (ii) financing is structured so that the host enterprise maintains a positive cash flow
throughout the project.
SETC's PMO will (i) ensure compliance with obligations under the Implementation
Agreement; (ii) review and monitor accounts, management reports, audits, management
performance, annual plan and budget, and all other relevant activities; (iii) establish and monitor
performance targets on the number and level of guarantee transactions, levels of default; (iv)
approve the IA's annual plan and budget; (v) approve individual guarantee transactions, to the
extent specified in the Implementation Agreement; (vi) review, implement, and verify the
compensation system for the IA, as revised from time to time during the annual process of budget
approval; (vii) conduct post reviews and enforce appropriate recovery action in respect of
guarantee payments; (viii) review and approve recommendations of Implementing Agency to write
off irrecoverable amounts in respect of subrogation. World Bank supervision or approvals will
also be required for aspects of (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) above.
At the end of the seven-year project implementation period, the fund balance in the capital
reserve will remain in the capital reserve for continued use to backstop EMC loan guarantees
developed by the IA, unless agreed by the Bank and the Government that these remaining funds
should be deployed for other, specifically agreed greenhouse gas reduction activities and projects.
The Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement
The Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement is a critical element of the overall
project framework, as it defines the operating framework for the EMC loan guarantee program,
supervision mechanisms, and the incentives framework for the IA. The basic terms and conditions
required in the Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement are set forth in Schedule 6 of the
Grant Agreement between China (the Recipient of the Grant) and the Bank. In addition to standard
clauses requiring proper use of funds and establishing regular contractual relations, Schedule 6
requires that the Agreement(s) shall include the following specific key terms and conditions,
satisfactory to the Bank:
*  The obligations of the Recipient to: (a) establish the EMC Guarantee Program Special
Fund in a commercial bank account in the name of the Recipient and for the purpose of
implementing the EMC Loan Guarantee Program of the project; and (b) assign to the
Guarantee Program Implementing Agency the management of the respective Special Fund.
*  The obligations of the Guarantee Program Implementing Agency (among other things) to:
(a) prudently invest the proceeds of the respective Special Fund, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank;
(b) deposit all income, including guarantee fees, subrogation recoveries, interest and
investment income, capital receipts or other contributions derived from the Special Fund
directly into the Special Fund account;
(c) make withdrawals from the respective Special Fund only for:
(i) payments for call of guarantees supported by the Special Fund;
(ii) eligible operating costs of the Guarantee Program Implementing Agency; and
42



(iii) investments consistent with the purposes and objectives of the Guarantee
Program Implementation Agreement;
(d) annual provision to the Bank of certified copies of financial statements, and audit
reports by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, together with maintenance of
required records and accounts, following standard Bank requirements;
(e) submission of a Financial Management System Manual, setting forth financial
management operations, control and procedures, to the Bank for the Bank's approval prior
to the execution of the Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement;
(f) within 30 days of a guarantee call payment, provide to the Recipient a written report
indicating the reasons for the default, its recovery plan, and the Implementation Agency's
assessment of the probability of recovery of the amounts in default; and thereafter
implement the recovery plan as so approved by the Recipient and, if any amounts are
determined to be irrecoverable, obtain the approval of the Recipient to write off such
amounts; and
(g) remit payment into the Special Fund account if a guarantee call payment id deemed by
the Recipient to be unwarranted, for the amount of said payment;
o  A provision that requires the Guarantee Program Implementing Agency to obtain the
approval of the Bank for the first 4 guarantees of each type of guarantee it proposes to
underwrite in connection with the Special Fund, prior to entering into these guarantee
agreements;
o  A provision that sets the compensation of the Guarantee Program Implementing Agency
including:
(a) a basic fee, which takes into account the operating costs of the Implementing Agency
solely and directly attributable to fulfillment of its obligations under the Guarantee
Program Implementation Agreement; and
(b) an incentive-based fee, the amount of which is calculated on a cumulative basis by
taking into account the Implementing Agency's performance which includes, but is not
limited to, a consideration of: (A) the number and volume of guarantee transactions
supported by the Special Fund; and (B) the guarantee fees generated less net
subrogation losses.
o A provision that sets forth the immediate termination of the Guarantee Program
Implementation Agreement in various events, including if: (a) the Implementing Agency
becomes insolvent, (b) the Implementing Agency fails to fulfill its obligations under the
Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement, and (c) the charter of the Implementing
Agency is amended, abrogated, repealed or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of
the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient or the
Implementing Agency to carry out their obligations.
43



Guarantee Program Incremental Operation Costs and Technical Assistance
The EMC Loan Guarantee Program also includes $1.6-1.8 million equivalent of GEF grant
financing for the IA, for $1.1-1.3 million equivalent of incremental operating costs associated with
Program start-up, and for $0.5 million equivalent for technical assistance services also associated
with Program start-up. Final allocations of GEF proceeds for incremental operating costs will be
made based on emerging needs and results of the different project components.
The transaction costs of the Guarantee Program are expected to be especially high during
the initial years of its operation for two reasons. First, it is a new business. The EMC industry
itself is new in China, and this industry is largely unknown to the banks and guarantee institutions.
The EMCs are also just developing, and have little or no experience in preparing business plans
and financing applications suitable for the banking industry. The financial structuring of loans,
loan guarantees, and energy performance contracts as package which can yield the best returns with
the least risks is a new topic-while this area brings great opportunity, it also will require time and
energy to develop. Second, the Guarantee Program IA is not likely to be successful in generating
sufficient transactions if it merely waits for sound applications-successful implementation will
require a major marketing and transaction origination effort by the IA during the early years. This
also will add further and substantially to initial transaction costs.
The incremental operating costs supported by the GEF grant will include increased IA
costs associated with Program marketing, upstream consultations and investigations with EMCs
and their associated banking institutions, development of creative and new loan and guarantee
structures suitable for the EMC industry, above average application review and guarantee
transaction appraisal costs, etc. The technical assistance services support will include support to
engage consultants and experts from abroad and within China to assist in the marketing efforts,
development of the new loan and guarantee structures for the EMC industry and the Program, and
review of EMC business plans and EMC subprojects. Both of these efforts also provide a major,
hand-on and learning-by-doing opportunity for the IA staff, which will be critical for the successful
implementation of the Program.
Disbursements of these subcomponents of the EMC Loan Guarantee Program are expected
to take place primarily during the first three years of the Program.
Development of the EMC Loan Guarantee Pipeline
Given the goals of the Program to maximize EMC energy efficiency investments, and the
fact that the EMC industry is so new, it is important to build mechanisms that will ensure steady
and robust developnment of loan applications and guarantee transactions. The incremental operating
cost and technical assistance subcomponents of the Program are designed to help the IA to meet
this need. In addition, the EMC Service Component includes substantial support for the EMC
Service Association to also help the EMCs develop their corporate and business plans on a
financially strong footing, and to raise awareness within the banking community about the EMC
industry. These efforts must combine, through joint cooperation between the EMC Service
Association and the IA, to provide for the most efficient development of the market and the
Guarantee Program pipeline. With ASTAE-DfID support on EMC Financial Technical Assistance
(described above), as well as aspects of both the EMC Service Component and the grant assistance
provided to the IA, the target is to deliver at least 20-30 guarantee transactions during the first two
years of the project. As of March 2002, an EMC Loan Guarantee Development Small Group was
formed and beginning operations, as a joint effort between the EMC Service Group and I&G, who
44



has been requested to make detailed preparations for IA assignment for the Start-up Phase. This
Small Group includes 6 staff, and has embarked on a work program to prepare at least 5-10
guarantee transactions, including negotiated documentation ready for signature, which can be
executed as soon as the GEF Grant Agreement and a Guarantee Program Implementation
Agreement are effective.
45



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
Local         Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Component          US $million    US $million     US $million
EMC Guarantee Programs                          238.5            0.3          238.8
EMC Services                                      2.5            0.6            3.1
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation      0.5            0.1            0.6
Total Baseline Cost                            241.5             1.0          242.5
Physical Contingencies                           0.0            0.0            0.0
Price Contingencies                              0.0            0.0            0.0
Total Project Costs              241.5            1.0          242.5
Local         Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Category          US $million     US $million    US $million
Goods                                            199.8             0.0          199.8
Works                                              0.0             0.0            0.0
Services                                          1.69             1.0           2.69
Training                                           0.0             0.0            0.0
Miscellaneous
Incremental Operating Costs                     18.0             0.0           18.0
Guarantee Program Capital Reserve               22.0             0.0           22.0
Total Project Costs                 241.5              1.0          242.5
46



Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis
CIIUNA: Second Energy Conservation Project
CONCEPT AND BARRIER REMOVAL STRATEGY
Energy conservation in China over the coming decades remains critical for the country's
development and for the global environment. Conservation efforts continue to be necessary to
limit the otherwise huge increase in primary energy supply required to sustain the growth of
China's economy and to mitigate the serious environmental consequences of expanded energy
consumption. The Government has been particularly keen to develop the mechanism of energy
performance contracting, which it considers to be a financing and technology dissemination
instrument of great potential for China's evolving market economy. Efforts under the ongoing
Energy Conservation Project have been successful so far in introducing and adapting energy
performance contracting to Chinese conditions, developing a viable model in the three pilot EMCs,
and establishing an initial market among client enterprises. However, despite the success of these
three EMCs, parallel market activity has been slow to develop. Efforts are thus required to expand
the three pilot EMCs to a national industry and seek participation of the third key player needed for
a sustainable EMC market: banks and other financing institutions.
As described in the main text, Section B3, the main barriers constraining rapid new EMC
development today include:
o  Lack of sufficient awareness of the energy performance contracting and EMC concepts;
o  Lack of knowledge and skills to operate EMC businesses;
o  Lack of credit financing for EMC business development; and
o  Difficulties in securing sufficient equity financing.
The proposed second project is designed to help overcome these barriers to rapid
development of China's EMC industry as efficiently as possible. Furtherrnore, in order to foster
development of an EMC industry which is sustainable in the market on commercial terms, two
additional objectives were set as requirement for project design: (a) direct grants to new or
emerging EMCs should be avoided, and (b) the Chinese banking industry must be engaged as the
key source of credit financing, replacing the donor financing in the demonstration phase.
As described in the main text, Section Cl and Annex 2, the project seeks to remove the
main barriers to further EMC industry development outlined above by:
o  Increasing nationwide awareness of the concepts, and provision of customized, intensive
training and technical assistance for new and emerging EMCs on how to set up and
develop their businesses, through the implementation of an EMC Service Component; and
o  Establishment and implementation of an EMC Loan Guarantee Program, designed to
provide new and emerging EMCs with enhanced opportunities to receive loans from
domestic banks, and to engage the banks in the development of a sustainable EMC
industry.
47



Contingent Finance Modality
About 85% of the proposed GEF financing will be used in a contingent finance modality.
GEF financing proposed for this project includes (a) $4.0 million equivalent in grant funds,
including $1.6 million equivalent in support of the EMC Service Group/Association's activities,
$0.6 million equivalent to support central coordination, monitoring and reporting or project
activities, and $1.8 million equivalent to provide training and technical assistance to participating
banks, and to partially defray the high start-up and initial transaction costs of the EMC Loan
Guarantee Program, and (b) $22.0 million equivalent as a "contingent grant" to be used as a capital
reserve for the EMC Loan Guarantee Program.
The concept of contingent grant financing is employed in this project to use GEF funds to
backstop commercial bank loans to EMCs through provision of partial credit guarantees, rather
than to provide direct grants to EMCs in need of financial support. In the first phase of the project,
direct grants were provided to the demonstration EMCs to help support their first demonstration
projects, as there was absolutely no experience with the investment mechanism in China, and no
entities were willing to either form EMCs or accept commercial loan financing without some
additional incentive, given the very high risks of trying this new mechanism out for the first time.
As the concept has been successfully demonstrated in the three EMCs now, however, the Bank and
SETC teams believe, based on market soundings, that the combination of customized technical
assistance and credit enhancement through the guarantee program will provide sufficient support
for the strong development of the EMC industry in the next few years, and additional direct grants
to end users can be avoided. GEF involvement in the establishment of the guarantee facility is
necessary, however, as no commercial investor is willing to undertake the perceived risks of
financing the facility alone. This is because the EMC industry is still very new, with such a limited
track record, and also because of the limited experience of guarantee funds in China to date.
However, use of a contingent grant mechanism for GEF's involvement is appropriate in this case,
as there are excellent chances that the perceived risks in running the guarantee fund can be
overcome over time.
The contingent financing modality for this project introduces several concepts, also used in
the case of the Bank's GEF Romania Energy Efficiency Project:
*  Concept of Gross Contingent Grant. The initial GEF grant to support the capital reserve of
the proposed EMC loan guarantee program is a gross grant ($22 million equivalent
proposed). The distinction between a conventional grant and this contingent grant is that
the latter will be partially or fully returned to the initial beneficiary (e.g., MOF), or
otherwise redeployed (e.g. perhaps for other types of guarantees), at the end of the project,
for other uses in greenhouse gas reduction agreed with the Bank and GEF. (If agreement is
not reached on alternative uses, however, funds developed will remain in support of the
EMC Loan Guarantee Program.)
*  Final or Net Grant. At the end of the project, as much of the contingent grant as possible
will be redeployed for use in other agreed GHG mitigation projects. If the return is lower
than expected because of factors directly linked to the performance of the Guarantee
Company, it will be partially or fully converted into a conventional grant. (Sufficient
incentives for maximum capital preservation by the Guarantee Company management will
be a key part of the agreement establishing the capital reserve fund.) The amount which is
not returned for redeployment will be regarded as the Final Grant. While estimates have
been prepared on the basis of reasonable assumptions and expected performance of the
48



facility, the size of the Final Grant cannot be known with any precision until the project
closes.
* Incremental cost. The incremental cost associated with the provision of the contingent
grant for the capital reserve is equal to the difference between the future value of the Gross
Grant and the money that is returned at the end of the project. Since the Final Grant will
not be known until project closure, the incremental cost also will not be known until the
project closing date.
The advantage of the contingent finance approach is its inherent capacity to match the net
GEF grant with the actual incremental costs stemming from project risk. The incremental cost
payments of the Final Grant will be limited to the amount required to actually overcome the
barriers to sustainable commercial financing of the EMC sector and energy efficiency investments,
as borne out during actual market conditions and project implementation. Overpayment of grant
resources are thereby avoided for uncertain activities that are and initially considered to be risky,
but ultimately able to yield commercial returns.
THE GEF ALTERNATIVE: GRANT AMOUNTS AND INCREMENTAL COSTS
Baseline Scenario
As described in Annex 11, some 6-8 new EMCs have been formed in China, in addition to
the three demonstration EMCs. Based on the market reviews completed by the PMO to date, the
project team estimates that some $53 million of investments might be undertaken by these and
other new EMCs over the seven year proposed project implementation period, if no additional
support measures are provided. These initial estimates are based on the current investment patterns
of these companies, and assume that each EMC is able to complete about RMB 10 million of new
business each year, with no growth over the first three years and 3 percent growth thereafter.
Although not insignificant, these estimates of possible new EMC investment levels under a
without project scenario would be a very disappointing result given the market potential. Without
a large-scale effort to provide additional financial security and industry know-how, local banks will
continue to ignore the EMC business potential and, thus, starve prospective EMCs of required
project financing to grow their businesses. There are few reasons for the local banks to undertake
the major risks involved in lending to this largely unique business alone, unless good track records
are first demonstrated. As can be seen today, despite the initial successes with the three pilot
EMCs, new EMCs are extremely few in number and remain unable to access meaningful financing
for large-scale operations. Thus, the baseline scenario would include very limited EMC market
entrants and activity, and participation by commercial lending institutions in this market would
remain extremely low over the near- to medium-term. With the exception of a few financially
strong investors, the EMC market would suffer from poor expertise and access to financing and
thus the vast Chinese EMC market would remain largely untapped and unserved.
In addition, in the absence of a dedicated Association to market the EMC concept, help
address ongoing policy issues (e.g., legal, taxation, verification), and train new EMC managers and
staff, new EMCs are likely to run into considerable business development hurdles, which would
further constrain their growth. Also, should new and inexperienced EMCs develop projects that
fail or are poorly designed, it could have significant negative repercussions on the ability for the
EMC industry as a whole to further develop.
49



Technical Assistance Components
EMC Service Component. GEF grant resources of $1.6 million equivalent are proposed
to support about one-third of the costs of the EMC Service Group/Association's activities. This
support will enable the EMC Service Group to continue its customized support of the EMC
industry begun with UK DffD support, and enable the Group to develop into a permanent EMC
Association. By the end of the project period, the EMC Association will be self-supporting from its
own revenue sources, gradually built up over time, such as member dues, service fees, and public
support for special programs. This component is a necessary companion to the EMC Loan
Guarantee Program, as it builds and strengthens the market for EMC loans. In some cases,
however, some EMCs may have access to sufficient project financing (e.g., some power utilities or
equipment suppliers), but require assistance to develop their EMC businesses. In many cases as
well, the involvement in a major national program, supported by SETC, MOF the World Bank and
GEF, provides a source of business legitimacy which is critical for gaining market credibility.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation Component. The critical Project
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting Component will require $0.6 million equivalent of GEF
support, and will be implemented by SETC's PMO. The PMO will maintain the Special Account
for the GEF financing of incremental operating costs and consulting services and will oversee GEF
disbursements. The PMO will be responsible for compiling reports on project status, on progress
meeting performance indicators (especially energy savings levels), and on financial management,
based in large part on information provided by the other two implementing entities (the EMC
Service Association and Guarantee Program Implementing Agency). The PMO will be responsible
for all project procurement work (consisting of consulting services only), although details may
prepared by the other two implementing entities. As the PMO also will operate the bank account
for the Guarantee P'rogram Capital Reserve Specialized Fund, for SETC, the PMO also will need to
engage qualified experts to assist the Government in the supervision of the Guarantee Program and
its account. An especially important part of this component will be the monitoring and completion
of detailed surveys of the EMC industry's development, maintenance of a database on this,
monitoring of EMC investment levels, calculations of actual resulting energy savings and GHG
reduction, and detailed reporting to the government and Bank/GEF on these aspects.
Support for EMC Loan Guarantee Start-up.    GEF grant resources of $1.8 million
equivalent will help to defray the high initial start-up costs associated with the EMC loan guarantee
program. These costs include development of initial products and in-depth marketing, staff
training, use of international expertise on commercially oriented guarantee facilities, and the
development and processing of the program's first few transactions, which will be particularly
labor-intensive. l.hese costs also include a major program of technical assistance and training for
the participating banks, to provide training and international expertise for the participating banks,
and to sensitize the many branch officers who will be involved.
EMC Loan Program Contingent Grant
Gross Grant: The minimum level of GEF contingent grant support to be used for the
Guarantee Company's capital reserve is estimated at US$ 22 million equivalent. This level of
support is considered the minimum level based on estimates of both minimum market penetration
and facility economies of scale. Given the size of the market, the guarantee program must have
some size in order to make a noticeable impact. The financing package developed by the project
team will enable the Program to back-stop loan financing for an average of about 5 energy
conservation projects per year for about 20 EMCs. (For reference, the pilot EMCs have undertaken
50



an average of about 20 projects per year each during 1999-2001.) Secondly, the Guarantee
Program must have sufficient business volume to defray its fixed costs, such as overhead, core
staffing, strategic partnership development with participating banks, etc. Based on the initial
business model for the Program, GEF financing of at least $22 million is necessary for the Program
to achieve breakeven.
Final Grant. The main factors determining the size of the final grant are those that
determine the profitability of the Guarantee Program. Key factors include (a) ability to minimize
transaction costs; (b) ability to minimize defaults; (c) the willingness of the market to accept
guarantees fees which cover different risk profiles, and can properly defray evolving transaction
and default costs; (d) the willingness of the market to accept guarantee commitments at multiples
of the capital reserve; and (e) interest gained from the Guarantee Program's reserves.
The final grant will be equal to the contingent grant of US$22 million equivalent less the
final book value of the portfolio of investments made by the guarantee company (cash balance plus
investments less trade creditors and the amounts attributable to the equity shareholders). While the
exact amount of the final grant will not be known until project closure, preliminary and
conservative analysis shows that under reasonable assumptions and continued reforms of the
Chinese financial system, it may be on the order of US$4.2 million (in addition to the technical
assistance grant for start-up of $1.8 million). Preliminary sensitivity analysis in Annex 5 shows
that the level of the final grant show assumptions which lead to estimates of final grant amounts
ranging from zero to about US$5 million.
The Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement between the government and the
Guarantee Program Implementing Agency must include provisions which align Company returns
from the program to achievement of two key objectives: (a) the back-stopping of a maximum
amount of EMC investments through provision of loan guarantees, and (b) maximum preservation
(and even growth, if possible) of the capital reserves provided with GEF resources.
Incremental Cost of the GEF Alternative
The incremental cost of the project is equal to the cost of the grant technical assistance of
$4.0 million, plus the final grant amount resulting from the contingent grant for the capital reserve
of the EMC Loan Guarantee Program, which will not be known until project closure (see Table 1).
If the final grant amount of the contingent grant were $4.2 million, then the total incremental cost
of the project would be $8.2 million (excluding the time-value of the capital reserve funds).
51



Table 1. Incremental Cost Matrix
(Seven-year project implementation period)
Baseline             GEF Alternative       Increment
Domestic Benefits            *  Limited project  *   Major increases in  *  Removal of EMC
investment by a      EMC activity from     informational and
few new EMCs         Association and       financing barriers
*  Limited banks        training programs  *   Additional energy
engaged in EMC   *   Provision of loan     savings of 39 million
financing            guarantees from GF    tce
*  Some EMC          *  Large-scale        *   Significant
business failures    awareness of EMC      development of EMC
business and          industry framework
potential
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT'AL        Reductions in GHG   Reductions in GHG      26 million tons of carbon
BENEFITS                     based on low level of  based on high level of  reduced.
EMC investment.      EMC investment.
Costs by Component (IIS$M)
New EMC Investment without            53                   53                      0
Project "
EMC Guarantee Programs                0                   238.8                  238.8
EMC Services                          0                    3.1                    3.1
Project Monitoring, Reporting         0                    0.6                    0.6
and Evaluation
Total Costs                           53                  295.5                  242.5
UK DFID Contribution                 2.5                   2.5                    2.5
GEF Incremental Costs
(US$m)2'                                                                         4.0+
Note:
l/ Excludes investment by three demonstration EMCs supported in first project phase.
2/ The minimum incremental cost, assuming redeployment of all of the $22 million equivalent of
contingent grant funds and no accounting for the time value of these resources is $4.0 million. The
maximum theoretical incremental cost is $26.0 million, which assumes no redeployment of any
contingent grant resources.
THE GEF ALTERNATIVE: LEVERAGING, ENERGY SAVINGS AND GHG REDUCTION BENEFITS
Project Benefits: Energy Savings & Carbon Dioxide Emission Abatement
The direct benefits of this project are the energy savings from the expanded EMC energy
efficiency investments, and the associated carbon dioxide emission reduction (as well as reduction
of local pollutants). Energy savings actually achieved in this project can and will be closely
monitored and reported, because (a) actual energy savings are central to the energy performance
contracting mechanism of the EMCs, (b) EMC investment levels can be closely tracked by the
EMC Service Group, as a direct result of the Guarantee Program and other reporting from the
Group's members.
52



Based on data from the first 141 projects commissioned by the three demonstration EMCs,
the average total energy savings gained per $1000 invested in energy efficiency projects using
energy performance contracting equates to 117 tons of coal equivalent (tce). This results from an
average of 12.71 tce saved per year per $1000 invested, and an average estimated equipment
lifetime for the types of equipment used of 9.2 years. The associated carbon emissions reduction
equates to 78 tons of carbon per $1000 invested for the average fuel mix saved in these 141
projects.
Direct energy efficiency investments resulting from the EMC Loan Guarantee Program are
estimated at about $309 million over the seven-year project implementation period, based on very
conservative estimates of the willingness of the market to accept guarantee commitments in excess
of the Guarantee Company's capital reserve (see Annex 5). With commercial success, however, it
is expected that the Guarantee Program may continue after the end of the project, with a GEF exit
strategy whereby other investors buy-out the GEF share of the Guarantee Company's dedicated
capital. Over a ten-year time slice, the illustrative projections in Annex 5 show that the Guarantee
Program can support a total of $501 million in EMC energy efficiency investments, using similar
conservative assumptions. This level of investment equates to 59 million tce of energy savings,
and 39 million tc of reduced carbon emissions from the ten-year investment period. This does not
include additional, most likely large, investments and benefits from companies which use the
guarantee program initially but are later able to access credit without the Program once they have
grown.
The EMC Service Component is necessary for the Guarantee Program to be effective, and
it therefore also contributes to the above benefits. In addition, however, the EMC Service
Component will result in substantial additional energy efficiency investments by EMCs which do
not need to use the Guarantee Program, but have expressed strong needs for technical assistance
and programmatic support. The project team estimates that such investments may reach some $75
million over the projects 7-year implementation period, and some $120 million over a time-slice of
ten years. This equates to an additional 14 million tce of energy savings and 9 million tc of
reduced carbon emissions over the ten year period.
Subtracting energy savings and carbon dioxide emissions reductions resulting from the
estimated $53 million of EMC investment that may take place over the seven-year period in the
absence of the project (perhaps also some $70 million of investment over the ten year period), the
total net project benefits equate as follows:
(a) $331 million of new energy efficiency investment, resulting in 39 million tce of energy
savings and 26 million tc of carbon emissions reduction over the seven years of project
implementation; and
(b) $551 million of new energy efficiency investment, resulting in 64 million tce of energy
savings and 43 million tc of carbon emissions reduction over ten years.
Leveraging of GEF Funds
As a second phase operation designed to reap the benefits of the initial demonstration
operation, and a project designed for maximum leveraging of GEF resources through contingent
financing, the leverage of GEF funds in this Phase II operation will be extremely high. The
following calculations are demonstrative:
(a)  Based on the conservative assumptions described briefly in Annex 5, the Guarantee
Program should be able to support energy efficiency investments by EMCs at a ratio
53



of at least 14:1 over the seven year project life, especially due to 1-3 year tenure of
the guarantees and the revolving nature of the fund. Over ten years, this ratio is
forecast to rise to about 23:1.
(b)  Adding in projected additional investments resulting from the EMC Service
Component's activities, but subtracting investments from the baseline scenario,
energy efficiency investments per unit of GEF gross grant resources, including
grants in. addition to the contingent grant, are 13:1 over the seven-year project
implementation period and 21:1 over ten years.
(c)  Considering the return of contingent grant resources at the end of the project, to be
redeployed for additional, other GHG reduction activities, the ratio of net or final
GEF grant investment by the end of the project to energy efficiency investment
levels are very high. Assuming a final GEF grant of $4 million-the minimum
level-the ratio of energy efficiency investments to GEF final grant investment is
83:1 over seven years, and 138:1 over ten years. Assuming a final GEF grant of $9
million (e.g. capital reserve losses of $5 million), the ratio of energy efficiency
investment to GEF final grant investment is 37:1 over seven years and 61:1 over ten
years.
Grant cost eflectiveness. The net cost of carbon abatement of this Phase II project is a
direct corollary of the leverage figures presented above. Assuming ten years of benefits, the gross
grant cost of carbon abatement is about 60 US cents/ton of carbon, but the net grant cost of carbon
abatement is projected at some 9-21 US cents/ton of carbon, assuming final grant amounts of
between $4 million and $9 million as in (c) above.
54



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
Introduction
The project will establish a new EMC Loan Guarantee Program in China to help EMCs to
obtain commercial loan financing from domestic banks. The central objective of the Program is to
achieve maximum EMC investment in energy efficiency projects over the long tern. To achieve
this, the program will seek to: (a) maximize the number and volume of guarantee transactions,
leveraging capital resources as much as possible within prudent limits, to facilitate as much lending
to EMCs as possible; (b) preserve the guarantee fund's capital base, to the extent feasible while
meeting the project's objectives, through commercially-oriented operation, in order to maintain
financial resources for revolving, long-term use; and (c) promote, engage and strengthen the active
involvement of domestic banks in the program as much as possible, so that they become
increasingly familiar and comfortable with lending to the EMC industry, and are progressively
willing to underwrite a greater proportion of the EMC credit risks themselves.
As described in the main text and especially Annex 2, the Guarantee Program will be
operated by one (or possibly more) Guarantee Program Implementing Agency (IA), according to a
Guarantee Program Implementation Agreement between the LA and the Govemrnment. The project
will provide GEF financing of $22 million equivalent to establish the EMC Guarantee Program
Special Fund, which is the fund against which guarantee commitments will be made by the IA.
The project will also provide GEF grants of up to $1.8 million equivalent to the IA, for incremental
operating costs and technical assistance/training. The project implementation period is seven
years, but the Program may well continue after the project closes, utilizing remaining funds in the
capital reserve. For the purposes of this Annex, the Program is modeled for a ten year period.
The purpose of the analysis in this Annex is to provide an overview of the key parameters
and risks which define and drive the performance of the Guarantee Program, in terms of the
support for EMC energy efficiency investments, the Program's financial performance and expected
cash bum-rate, the trade-offs involved, key elements needed in the incentive schemes for the lAs,
and an assessment of potential outcomes, given different assumptions. The analysis will be further
refined during the 2-3 year initial pilot phase and in on-going discussions with the China National
Investment and Guaranty CO. (I&G), with whom the Bank and the Government will enter into the
first Implementation Agreement.
Key Parameters
Key parameters defining the investment and financial performance of the Program include:
(a) the size and disbursement schedule for the capital reserve; (b) the volumes of guarantee
commitments achieved, including the extent of leveraging of the Program's capital reserve; (c)
Program costs, including both operating costs and losses due to unrecoverable subrogation losses;
and (d) revenue accruing to the Program, including revenue from guarantee fees and interest
income from conservative investment of the capital reserve. The objective of the Program is to
maximize the guarantee commitments it makes, and hence EMC energy efficiency investments.
However, to best achieve this objective over the long tem, it is critical to minimize loan defaults,
control operating costs and maximize revenues, in order to avoid rapid erosion of the capital
reserve equity, and hence undermine the ability of the Program to continue revolving guarantee
commitments. Key parameters of the guarantee fund include:
55



1.     Guarantee Capital Reserve. A level of $22 million equivalent of GEF investment into the
capital reserve is considered the minimum capitalization required, in order to ensure a minimum
level of credibility in the national market, to achieve a noticeable impact in terms of market
penetration, and to provide for economies of scale in Program operation to sufficiently defray the
fixed costs of the Program, such as overheads, core staffing, strategic partnership development with
commercial banks, etc.
Disbursement Schedule. GEF grants for the capital reserve are planned to be disbursed up front in a
limited number of separate tranches. Disbursement prior to execution of guarantee commitments is
necessary in order to establish credibility in the market, and is mandatory for any leveraging of
guarantee commitment levels above reserve amounts. The first tranch will need to be at least $11
million equivalent, to attract a competent and credible manager and give the Program a meaningful
presence in the market. Subsequent disbursements, in two tranches of US$5.5 million equivalent,
are planned only after the outstanding amount of guarantee exceeds the capital reserve amount,
which, on the basis of the projections, is expected in years two and three of the project. Specific
disbursement triggers will be negotiated and approved by the Bank and recorded in the
Implementation Agreement/s. Tranched disbursements have a detrimental impact on the fund
operation due to a decrease in a possible leverage amount and a reduction in fee/investment income
at a time when the costs are expected to be disproportionately high. However, tranched
disbursements provides some flexibility in development and fine tuning of the Program, and
establishes a firm linkage between disbursements and demonstrated performance.
2.     Maximizing Support for EMC Investments. Maximizing loan volumes to EMCs, largely
by maximizing guarantee commitments, is the reason for the Program's existence, and of
paramount concern. Obviously, a most important variable is the rate of development of the EMC
industry, and hence the market for loans and loan guarantees of this specific type. However, the
project will play a very active role in market development-both through the operation of the EMC
Service Component, and through a strong market and transaction development focus in the
Guarantee Program itself. The World Bank Group's first pilot ESCO loan guarantee program,
which was supported by the GEF and implemented by IFC in Hungary, experienced slow
transaction development and it took over three years for guarantee commitments to approach the
levels of the available capital reserves. Based on this experience, market and transaction
development is already underway under this project, with the goal to develop the deal-flow or a
pipeline of transactions prior to project effectiveness (see Annex 2).
Leveraged Guarantee Capacity.  Guarantee capacity is the fund's ability to deploy its capital
reserves in terms of the magnitude of credit risk it is able to underwrite on behalf of the EMC
sector. In legal terms, there is little statutory restriction on the level of guarantee commitments that
can be made on the capital reserve-commitments are allowed to reach as high as 10:1 by the Bank
of China. The key practical restriction, aside from demand from credit-worthy clients, is the
perceived credit rating of the guarantee fund and the willingness of local banks to accept the
guarantee-all things being equal, as leverage amounts increase, the fund's credit rating and
credibility to the banks will decline. However, credibility among the banks is also a function of the
financial structure, track record, management structure, and investment policy of both the IA and
this specific program. Market penetration and leveraging by I&G, as the best known guarantee
company in China, and an IA which is willing to assume the default risk obligations over and
above the level of the capital reserve, is likely to be more rapid and greater than it would be for a
new, or small guarantee company. With I&G or other strong lAs, the Program may well be able to
eventually achieve a guarantee commitment leverage of 3-5 times the capital reserve.
56



Balancing transaction volume and other factors. Overly aggressive efforts to maximize Program
guarantee commitments, however, are counter-productive, and could undermine the Program's
results over the longer term, by incurring excessive losses to the capital reserve. Some of the trade-
offs include:
o  Trade-offs between market development efforts and transaction costs.  Intensive,
customized efforts to help EMCs and local banks to develop loan and guarantee
transactions are expensive. While the project has made a significant provision to cover
these costs in the early years of the Program, there are limitations on how much cost can be
incurred.
o  Trade-offs between average transaction size and transaction costs. The most profitable
transactions for the Program are large guarantees, spanning several years with the most
credit-worthy customers. However, much of the EMC industry potential is in small
companies, who can support only small loans. Overly conservative control of transaction
costs will cause the EMC industry development goals of the Program to be compromised,
but too aggressive development of too many small transactions will cause excessive losses
to the capital reserve.
o  Particularly important, pressure to maximize guarantee volume must be tempered by need
to strictly control risks and avoid excessive defaults. Rapid development of guarantee
commitments, without adequate attention to loan quality and credit enhancements, could
rapidly undermine the Program through excessive default payments from the capital
reserve.
o  Rapid market development and the volume of business will also need to be tempered
initially to limit the losses that will occur while the credit markets mature and the fund is
progressively able to price and charge for risk correctly, attain breakeven and cover the
direct costs of undertaking new business.
o  Demand for loan guarantees will be to a substantial extent related to the terms of the
guarantees.  Higher guarantee fees and stricter counter-guarantee requirements may
increase the profitability of the Program, but may excessively constrain guarantee
commitment volume, and hence undermine the achievement of the Program's main
objective. Excessively low guarantee pricing, however, may cause excessive losses to the
reserve, and undermine future guarantee commitment capacity.
Additional leveraging factors. Further leveraging can be expected from (a) risk sharing between
the Guarantee Program and the banks-e.g. provision of guarantees for only a portion of loan
amounts, (b) risk sharing between the banks and the EMCs-e.g. partial finance of the EMC's total
investment amounts, and, especially, (c) revolving the guarantee capital reserve to underwrite
further loan commitments over time. Although the guarantee program may need to guarantee up to
80-90% of loan amounts initially, this is expected to decline as financial reforms and experience in
EMC lending proceed. Loans granted by the banks under this program are expected to be about
70% of the EMC's investment in energy efficiency projects. With the proportion of the bank loans
guaranteed of around 90% planned for the first 3 years (and some 85% of the total planned for the
next 2 years), the revolving effect of the Program, provided that the capital reserve is not reduced at
the outset of the Program, is by far the most important of these factors in terms of leveraging.
3.     Operating Costs. The Program LA/s will incur two types of operating costs: (a) recurrent
or regular operating costs and (b) start-up, extraordinary operating costs. Regular operating costs
are mainly general administration expenses, including costs for credit assessment, supervision, and
marketing. The LA/s will be allowed to receive compensation for these costs from the capital
reserve, based on specific criteria and procedures set out in the Implementation Agreements. Start-
57



up or extraordinary operating costs include the increased initial high operating costs associated
with the start-up of the program, initial market development efforts, origination of the first
transactions, initial and upstream coordination with the banks, and training for concerned parties.
Specific provisions are included in the Program of $ 1.8 million equivalent to cover the incremental
operating costs and procurement of services by the IA, especially during the first 2-3 years.
Since the Program is new, and given the various trade-offs involved, determination of optimal
operating cost levels will require both further review and experience over time. Operating cost
compensation formula will be established in the Implementation Agreement for a short, initial
phase, and then can be adjusted and fine-tuned thereafter as further operating experience is gained.
The Program requires superior performance on the part of the IW/s in the origination of guarantee
transactions, cost consciousness and sound management, and prudent fund management with
minimum withdrawal fiom the capital reserve. The WAIs role to improve the coordination with
banks is also critical, since EMC business is an emerging area and the project creates a new inter-
action between EMCs and commercial banks. Thus, the program requires sufficient IA
compensation so that the Program will be operated by motivated, experienced, and skilled
managers and staff. On the other hand, operating costs levels are one of the most critical levels
determining the financial performance of the Program, and excessive, non-performance related
compensation can quickly result in excessive losses and erosion of the capital reserve.
4.     Default levels. Default losses reflect the portfolio's credit quality, maturity structure and
risk distribution across regions and client categories. The default level of the loan portfolio is one
of the most important parameters for the guarantee fund operation. However, there is little market
data available in terms of an accurate benchmark with which to assess the expected or probable
default rates for this new asset class and loan guarantee program, especially given the unique
nature of the EMC clients and the project's various levels of involvement with them.
The default rate of recent small and medium enterprise guarantee projects with relatively high
creditworthy clients in the relatively developed areas are in the range of 5 to 10 % per annum.
However, since the EMC loan guarantee under the project will have unique characteristics, credit
assessment of EMC loan portfolio requires an in-depth understanding of the underlying asset
category and structure. EMC investments are repaid from host enterprises' positive cashflow
resulting from energy savings. The existing EMCs have undertaken a variety of risk mitigation
measures with the result that the repayment rate of host enterprises to the three EMCs in the first
phase of the Energy Conservation Project has been excellent, with a default rate of less than 2% of
all transactions undertaken to date. The EMCs have tended to do business with financially strong
enterprises, and/or have required strict counter-guarantees from their clients. For relatively newly
established EMCs, portfolio diversification is another key risk mitigation measure. The IA and the
banks can also ensure maximum incentives for EMC to meet their loan obligations and repayment
schedules by structuring these EMC loans to ensure that loan defaults are prohibitively costly to the
EMCs. Finally, the umbrella of the national EMC development program, particularly during the
early years of its formation, is especially important to the development of the emerging EMCs,
and discouraging defaults and delays in payment through the consequences of withdrawal of
national program support and adverse market publicity.
Given the uncertainties, it is critical to build significant incentives into the Implementation
Agreement for the lAs to minimize defaults and maximize loss recoveries, and to allow flexibility
in the Program to make any needed adjustments.
5.     Guarantee pricing. In principle, pricing of guarantee fees should aim to cover both
operating costs and net default losses after recoveries, thereby allowing income growth and capital
58



preservation. EMCs should be offered differentiated products, with different guarantee fees for
different credit risk and levels of security or collateral, from the outset. For example, an EMC
which is able to provide strong comfort and supported by a robust balance sheet and strong
contracts with credit-worthy customers could be offered a commensurately low guarantee fee.
On the other hand, pricing of credit that is based on its inherent risk is a new concept in China,
where both loan interest levels and guarantee fees tend to be relatively flat, regardless of credit risk.
In addition guarantee fee levels in the Chinese credit markets are currently quite low-ranging
from 0.8-2.0% in most cases involving established enterprises. The Program should aim to achieve
risk-differentiated pricing, and pitched at an average level that is designed to cover all transaction
costs, overheads and net default risks, to the maximum extent. This will however take time. In
addition, the Program cannot set prices beyond the levels that will undermine demand, and
compromise the principle objective of the Program of supporting growth in the EMC industry and
promoting energy efficiency investments.
6.     Capital Reserve Investment Income.  The capital reserve fund must be invested in
conservative, liquid and secure financial products. Given the returns of such investments in China
today, interest income on the capital reserve balance, less prudent on-hand cash reserves to meet
any and all eligible claims against the fund as they arise, and is estimated to be about 4% of the
capital reserve.
Incentives to Implementing Agencies
Design of an appropriate and comprehensive incentive scheme for the LA/s is a major
challenge in the project. The compensation and incentive arrangements which will be set out in the
Implementation Agreement(s) for the LA/s must provide the right incentives to maximize guarantee
commitments, and minimize capital reserve losses by maximizing capital reserve income and
minimizing operating costs and subrogation losses. An initial compensation and incentive scheme
for the first 2-3 years will be prepared in the first Implementation Agreement. After a review of
results and experiences, the scheme can be adjusted, if necessary.
Financial compensation of the IA will include (i) a basic fee, calculated by taking into account the
IA's operating costs that are specifically attributable to meeting IA's obligations under the
Entrustment Agreement; and (ii) an incentive-based fee, determined on a cumulative basis based
on the IA's performance, including the number and volume of Program guarantee transactions and
resultant income generated, less net subrogation losses. One possible incentive-based fee would be
a two-tiered scheme involving the following:
(a) Guarantee Commitment Incentive. Specific incentives could be provided to the IA, for
each successful guarantee transaction booked and closed. The incentive could represent a
portion of the guarantee fee obtained from the transaction, minus deductions for any
unrecoverable losses. The incentive could be paid in two parts-with a smaller part when
the guarantee is originated and a larger part when the transaction  is successfully
concluded. Such a scheme would encourage the IA to maximize the number of quality
transactions, maximize guarantee fee income, and minimize net subrogation losses.
(b) Cost Control Provisions. The Implementation Agreement also could provide incentives
for the IA to minimize costs, so that the IA/s will benefit directly from superior cost
control, and will stand to lose financially if costs become excessive. One possibility would
be to set up a normative or standard for operating costs and the difference between the
59



normative level and actual costs will be shared with LA/s. Excessive operating costs would
penalize the LA/s.
In addition, it also is important for the LA/s to either provide a small equity contribution to
the capital reserve, assume a portion of the default risk relating to the leveraging of the reserve with
guarantee commitments over and above the reserve balance, or a combination of both. This also
provides incentives for efficient Program management.
Illustrative Program Scenarios
Financial Model and Assumptions. A detailed financial model for the Guarantee
Program was constructed to provide a proforna income statement, cashflow statement, and balance
sheet in real terms for the operation of the Program for a period of 10 years. No specific
assumptions were made concerning assignment of an IA/s. The projection is consistent with
hiternational Accounting Standards (LAS) and the requirements of the Chinese authorities. A
comprehensive, illustrative case is presented in Table 3 at the end of this Annex, which follows the
assumptions presented in Table 1. Assumptions are then varied in Table 2, which also shows the
resulting effect in the value of the capital reserve at the end of 10 years and the total energy
efficiency investment level supported. A basic value at risk (VAR) analysis was also undertaken
on the basis of traditional variations in the default risk, recoveries and operating cost assumptions.
The model, basic assumption, sensitivity analysis and VAR will be revised further during the
course of project implementation, based on on-going discussions and experience with the LA.
Table 1: Financial Model Assumptions for an Illustrative Guarantee Program Case
Possible Scenario'              Short-   Medium-    Long-term      Basic VAR
term     term                    Assumptions
Loan Tenor (yrs)                          1        2           3
Average Loan size ($)                  300,000  500,000     800,000
Loan Interest Rate2                    6.59%     6.59%       6.59%
Proportion of the number of new         40%       50%         10%
guarantees written
Proportion of Guarantees Portfolio  A 3  40%      40%         40%
B         30%      30%         30%
C        30%       30%         30%
Annual Guarantee Fee4 (at year 7)  A    1.5%      1.7%        1.9%
B        2.1%      2.4%       2.65%
C        2.7%      3.0%        3.3%
Cumulative Default Rate (at year 7) A   2.0%      4.0%       6.0%     Poisson Distributions
B        3.0%      6.0%        10.0%
C        4.0%      8.0%        14.0%
Recovery Rate6                 40%                                    Normally distributed
with std. dev. of 26%
Recovery Expenses              5%
Normative Unit Operating. Cost  US$ 9,200/transaction                 Equal probability in
a range of +/- 10%
Tax                            Revenue tax of 5.5%, income tax of 33%
Exchange rate                  RMB8.3 per lUS dollar
I. Other key assumptions for the possible scenario which are independent of the tenor of the loan are: initial GEF seed
capital equals US$22 million equivalent which is disbursed in three tranches, US$1 1 million equivalent at year I
60



and US$ 5.5 million equivalent in year 2 and 3, respectively; the facility can implement a maximum of 1 00 loans per
year; Technical Assistance and initial set-up costs of US$1.8 million equivalent over the first three years.
2.  Based on interest rates by the People's Bank of China for small enterprises.
3.  Portfolio is categorized by I&G depending on its credit risk.
4.  It is assumed that guarantee fees reach the above level by year 7.
5.  Recovery rate refers to the expected recovery of claims made against the IA by the participating in respect of
defaults on covered bank loans and will vary depending on the amounts of collateral and/or counter guarantees that
are available to the EMCs.
Conclusions of the Analysis. The illustrative case, sensitivity and VAR analysis show
that even with wide variation in key assumptions the Guarantee Program can succeed in leveraging
very large levels of loans to EMCs and EMC energy efficiency investments. In the illustrative case
in Table 3, financial break-even is attained at the end of year 9 and the capital reserve of $ 22
million is able to generate an average of about US$30 million per annum of new bank credits to
EMCs over a relatively short period of time. This in turn would achieve leverage ratio of
outstanding guarantee to GEF grant approaching about 2.5:1 by year five, generate outstanding
guarantee commitments of US$53 million in year 6, and mobilize cumulative commercial loans to
the EMC sector by the participating banks of US$351 million over the 10 year period. Total direct
energy efficiency investment of some 23 times of the initial GEF contingent grant of US$ 22
million equivalent could be achieved as a direct consequence of this program      over the period,
totaling $501 million, assuming that loans supported by the Guarantee Program account for 70% of
investment amounts.
It also is likely that the capital reserve will lose significant value over the period. In the illustrative
case the capital reserve value at the end of ten years is expected to be about $4.2 million less than
at the beginning of the project. It is further apparent from the basic VAR analysis illustrated in Fig.
1 that there is a small probability of the fund declining by US$ 5 million or more over this period.
However, since the initial capital reserve is some four times this amount, there is little likelihood
that the fund will be unable to meet all expected claims as they arise and should therefore establish
a reasonable rating in the market and achieve the leveraging targets expected from the program.
Figure 1. Decline in Capital Reserve (Contingent Grant)
Forecast: Contingent Grant
3,000 Trials             Frequency Chart               41 Outliers
.026                                 -               79
.020      ...... .... ................. ...-.... ............ .. 59.25
.013  .....................             ....... ..... .. 39.5  
_ _0 7   .........................   .............................E........   .9.7 5
1,556      2,612      3,668      4,724       5,780
Certairty is 97.50% fram -Infinity to 4,936 USS 000
As shown in the sensitivity analysis below, it is possible to formulate scenarios whereby the
capital reserve fully retains its original value. However, there also are a variety of scenarios
61



whereby the capital reserve loses significantly more value than in the illustrative case. Particularly
important are the effect of sharp increases in operating costs and default rates-poor results in
these areas not only cause sharply greater losses to the capital reserve, but also thereby detract from
energy efficiency investment results. Although not shown in the sensitivity analysis, major default
levels or excessive operating cost charges during the early years of the program will be particularly
devastating, as the loss in revolving capacity is greatest. These conclusions then yield two
additional conclusions:
(1) The net final GEF grant amount for this project will almost certainly be greater than the $4
million of grants provided in addition to the capital reserve financing. Even so, the value
achieved fronm the GEF financing in terms of leveraging energy efficiency investment by
EMCs is extraordinary. Assuming a final GEF grant of $8 million (e.g. capital reserve
losses of $4 million), the ratio of energy efficiency investment to GEF final grant
investment is 39:1 over seven years and 63:1 over ten years.
(2) Careful control of operating costs and net subrogation losses is especially important,
especially through provision of proper incentives to the lAs.
Table 2: Preliminary Sensitivity Analysis of Selected Parameters
Estimated        Total
Pairameter                 Capital     Investments     Maximum
Reserve l     Generated2    Leverage to
(US$ million)  (US$ million)    Equity
Possible Scenario
17.8           501            2.9
Transaction Volume - increase by 48% to    15.1           742           5.0
leverage 5:1
Transaction Volume - decrease by 61% to    21.1           196            1.0
leverage 1:1
Risk sharing with banks - increase by 50%  17.8           578           2.9
Risk sharing with banks - decrease by 50%  17.8           445           2.9
Operating costs - increase by 100%         12.3           386           2.9
Operating costs -decrease by 50%           20.6           557           2.9
Default rate - increase by 100%            12.3           381           2.9
Default rate - decrease by 50%             21.0           557           2.9
Guarantee Fee - increase by 50%            20.1           537            2.9
Guarantee Fee - decrease by 50%            15.4           466            2.9
1. Value after ten years. Excluding initial start-up grant of US$1.8 million equivalent.
2. Cumulative investments made over the 10-year life of the project.
62



Table 3: Illustrative 10 Year Financial Projections.
GEF n Energy EMdency Projecl
Illustrative Finamciai Projection (iSS '000)
FYI         FY2         FY3        FY4         FY5         FY6        FY7         FYS         FY9        FY10
laces.~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .rt en
Revenue
RevenucfromGvarantee&ProjectReviem Fee                                 153         294        517         813       1,093       1,178       1,216       1,213      1,242       1,230
Revenue fram Start up Grants                                           900         540        360
Recovered Bad Debt                                                                             76         289         503        626         718         797         743        603
Business Tax                                                             8          16         28          45          60         65          67          67          68          68
Total Revenue                                                          1,045        817         925       1,057       1,535       1,740      1,867       1,943       1,917       1,765
Operating Expenses
Start up Expenses                                                      900         540         360
Operating Expenses & G&A                                               444         540         768         866        806         820         741         728        720         719
Indemnity Payout                                                        162        528        1,265      1,729       1,924       1,940      2,062       1,597       1,354       1,290
Additional ServiceExpenses                                               I5          15         tO
Annual Mgmt Fee                                                         166         119         45         116        214         192         178         346        437         402
Total Operating Expenses                                                 1,687       1,741      2,448       2,711       2,944      2,953       2,981       2,671       2,511      2,410
Non-Operating Income
Guaranty Fund Financial Income                                         425         524         696         740        694         656         620         617         641        652
Income Pre Tax                                                           (218)       (399)       (827)       (915)      (715)       (557)       (494)       (111)        47           7
Income Tax                                                                                                                                                             1 5          2
Ne Income                                                                (218)       (399)       (827)       (915)      (715)       (557)       (494)       (111)        31           5
Cash Fltw Stamen.,
Sources orCash
K  Cuab or Cuab Equivalt ReceRved from Operations
GuarmnteeFeeReceived                                                   153        294         517         813       1,093       1,178       1,216      1,213       1,242       1,230
Start-up Grants received                                               900         540         360
Recovered Bad Debt                                                                             76         289        503         626         718         797         743        603
IncreaseAccountsPayable                                                169          5          71          26          23           1          3         (31)        (16)        (10)
Total Cah from Operaion                                               1,222        839        1,024       1,128      1,619       1,805       1,937       1,979      1,969       1,823
B. Csh Rec    d from Financial ServIes                                    425         524         696         740        694         656         620         617        641         652
C. Guaranty Fund Grant;                                                 11,000      5,500       5,500
Total Cash Flo.e In                                                     12,647      6,863       7,220       1,867       2,313       2,461      2,557       2,595       2,610       2,475
Application oCCash
A Start up Expenses                                                       900         540         360
B. Subrogauon                                                                         382       1,062       1,453       1,679       1,912      2,071       1,645       1,372       1,338
C OtherOpeextingEnpenses                                                  610         658         813         982       1.020       1,013        919       1,073       1,157       1,120
D. Taxation                                                                 8          16          28          45         60          65          67          67          84         70
E. Addional Service Expenses                                               15          15          10
F. Others
Total Cash Application                                                   1,534       1,612      2,273       2,480       2,760       2,989      3,057       2,785       2,612       2,528
Net Cash Changes                                                        11,113      5,251       4,947        (612)       (447)      (528)       (500)       (190)         (2)        (53)
Cash Balance (yer end)                                                  11,113     16,365      21,312      20,700      20,252      19,724     19,224      19,034      19,031      18,978
Badorsre Sheet
Assxts
Cash or Cash Equivalent                                                 500         765       2,123      2,905       3,358       3,824       4,142       3,290      2,743       2,675
Fixed and Intangible Assets
Shon-term Investmenl                                                 10,613      15,600      19,189      17,794     16,894      15,900      15,082      15,744     16,288      16,303
Total Assets                                                         11,113     16,365      21,312      20,700      20,252      19,724     19,224      19,034      19,031      18,970
Liabilities and Equity
Accounts Payable                                                        169         174         245         271        294         295         298         267         251        241
Contingence Liabilides                                                  162         307         511         787       1.032       1,059       1,051      1,003         985        938
Equity
GEF/WB Grants                                                         11,000      16,500     22,000      22,000      22,000     22,000      22,000      22,000      22,000      22,000
Other Equity
Retained earnings                                                      (218)       (617)     (1,444)     (2,358)     (3,074)     (3,630)     (4,125)    (4,236)     (4,205)     (4,200)
Total Equity                                                          10,782      15,883     20,556      19,642      18,926      18,370      17,875     17,764      17,795      17,800
Total Equlty and LiablUdn                                            11,113     16,365      21,312      20,700      28,252      19,724     19,224      19,034      19,031      18,978
Outstanding Guarantees                                                   8,100      15,360     25,545      39,345      51,577   - 52,972      52,533      50,150      49,258      46,875
63



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement
An assessment of the capacity of the agency responsible for all procurement under this
project-the GEF/World Bank China Energy Conservation Project Management Office of the
SETC (PMO)-was completed through interviews with the Agency during project appraisal. The
summary report of the assessment is available in the project file. The assessment also incorporated
the findings of the latest post review of contracts not subject to prior review awarded under the first
China Energy Conservation Project, including consulting contracts procured by the PMO. The
Assessment concluded that procurement risks for this project are low. However, prior review
thresholds, the frequency of post review and the sample size of post review evaluations were
customized at somewhat more stringent levels than normal for low-risk procurement ratings, to
meet the particular needs of this project (see details below).
Procurement Methods
Summaries of the procurement methods to be used for the project are presented in Tables
A, Al and B, below. The only procurement activities under this project are the procurement of
services. Financing of the Guarantee Program Capital Reserve (Category 3 in Table C of this
Annex), which will be held by the Guarantee Program Implementation Agency (IA) as a reserve to
back the EMC loan guarantees which it issues, involves no procurement activities. Financing of
Incremental Operating Costs under the EMC Service Component and EMC Loan Guarantee
Program (Category 1 in Table C) also involves no procurement activities, as the only eligible
expenses for this financing will be incremental travel and subsistence, and staff office and
administration costs of the project beneficiaries, based on statements of expenditure (see
Disbursements below). Financing of services involves procurement of services with a total value
of $2.69 million, split between three components (Category 2 of Table C). (This amount is based
on the cost estimates agreed at project appraisal, and includes sums in the unallocated disbursement
category).
All procurement of consultants will be according to the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997, revised in September
1997, January 1999 and May 2002.
64



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category                ICB      NCB       Other    N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works
2. Goods                                                         199.8     199.8
3. Services                                            2.69                 2.69
(2.45)2              (2.45)
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental Operating Costs                          18.0                18.0
(1.55) 3             (1.55)
Guarantee Program Capital                           22.0                .22.0
Reserve
(22.0)4              (22.0)
Total                                               42.7      199.8      242.5
(26.0)               (26.0)
Note: N.B.F.- Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofmancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
1/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the GEF Grant. All costs include
contingencies.
2/   Procurement according to the Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
3/   No procurement. EMC Service Group/Association and Guarantee Program Implementing
Agency annual operating budget will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
4/   No procurement.
Consultant selection arrangements for the project (which includes services only) are
presented in Table Al, and further detailed in the Project Procurement Plan in the project file.
Procurement of services with a total value of $2.69 million will take place over the seven years of
project implementation. The consultants' services procurement plan in based on the successful
experiences achieved during the first phase of the China Energy Conservation Project (under
implementation since 1998). All contracts with firms are expected to be very small (under
$100,000), utilizing Consultants' Qualifications selection procedures. Selection of individual
consultants will be in accordance with Section 5 of the Bank guidelines. Development of larger
packages is not possible in this case, as there are three beneficiaries, a seven-year implementation
horizon, many different topics, and very different types of required contractors. As also required in
the legal agreements for the first phase of the China Energy Conservation Project, all terms of
reference for all consulting assignments under the project will be subject to the Bank's prior
review.
65



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements and Draft Procurement Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                                 Selection Method              Total
Expenditure Category            QCBS   QBS    SFB     LCS      CQ     Other NBF Costl
PROJECT COMPONENT
EMC Service Component                                          0.89   0.59         1.48
Project Monitoring, Reporting and
Evaluation Component                                 0.35    0.31        0.66
EMC Loan Guarantee Program                                     0.39    0.16        0.55
Total Firms                                                    1.63                1.63
Total Individuals                                                      1.06        1.06
Total                                                          1.63    1.06        2.69
l\ Including contingencies.
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
All consultant contract Terms of Reference will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Prior review is required for contracts with firms valued at $100,000 or more, and for contracts with
individuals valued at $50,000 or more.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                           Contracts Subject to
Threshold           Procurement           Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)          Method              (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods
3. Services                   100,000            CQ for firms               0
50,000             Individuals               0.20
4. Miscellaneous                               No procurement               0
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                          0.20
66



Implementation Arrangements
All procurement work will be the responsibility of the Project Management Office (PMO)
of the SETC. As the beneficiary of the Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation Component,
the PMO will conduct its own procurement for this component. The other two beneficiaries-the
EMC Association and the Guarantee Program Implementing Agency-will complete TORs for
consulting assignments and prepare short-lists of potential firms/individuals, but the PMO will
oversee, and have responsibility for, all final evaluations and contract awards. The PMO will have
overall responsibility for ensuring the adequacy of all procurement work and filing, including
responsibilities for ensuring that the Bank's no objection to TORs has been obtained, and that all
procurement is in strict adherence to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Procurement supervision
will be conducted as part of the regular biannual project supervision missions, planned once every
six months. Post review of procurement will be conducted at least once every 12 months for the
first two years of project implementation, and at least once every 18 months thereafter. At least
one in every 8 contracts will be randomly selected for post review.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Overall procurement risks are rated as low, because the procurement processing for this
operation is not complex, and the PMO has conducted similar procurement services satisfactorily
under the ongoing China Energy Conservation Project. PMO staff received training at the outset of
the ongoing project, and has adhered to the basic requirements of Bank procurement well. As in
this proposed project, the Bank's prior review of all Terms of Reference (TORs) for all consulting
assignments has been required for this proposed Phase H project, and the PMO has carefully
adhered to this requirement. The review of TORs has proved to be a good supervision tool, and
vehicle for the Bank supervision team to provide guidance on these assignments.
As identified in the Assessment of the PMO's capacity to implement procurement, a
workshop will be convened at the launching of the project, involving the PMO, the Guarantee
Program Implementing Agency, and the EMC Association, to assist in the smooth coordination of
procurement processing involving the two units other than the PMO. The workshop will review (a)
the overall procedures and Bank's guidelines for procurement of consultant services using the
methods selected for this project, and (b) the responsibilities and interaction mechanisms between
the two implementing agencies and the PMO in procurement processing.
67



Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
Financial Management
Summary of the Financial Management Assessment. An assessment of the adequacy of
the project financial management system was conducted and concluded that this project meets
minimum Bank financial management requirements. The GEF/IBRD China Energy Conservation I
project is currently being implemented by PMO and other implementing entities. No outstanding
audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementing agencies involved in the proposed project.
The project would produce project financial management reports in line with the format and
content agreed to between the Bank and China. Traditional disbursement methods would be used as
opposed to the FMR-based disbursement systems, with the exception of EMC Guarantee Program
Special Fund of the project, in which disbursements will be made into a Guarantee Program
Capital Reserve Specialized Fund owned by the Government, based on executed Guarantee
Program Implementation Agreements, for which prior approval of the Bank is required. Financial
management systems for the Guarantee Program Implementation Agency(ies) (IA), which will
manage the Specialized Fund according to the Implementation Agreements, will be fully assessed
and must be approved by the Bank as part of the Implementation Agreement approval process. The
financial management. system (FMS) proposed by the China National Investment and Guarantee
Co., which has been asked to prepare for assignment as an IA, was assessed as satisfactory as part
of the financial management assessment.  The FMS of this IA, and other lAs, will include
maintenance of accounts and preparation of financial reports in full accordance with international
acceptable accounting standards.
Audit arrangement.  In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the project
accounts will be audited in accordance with the Government Auditing Standards of the People's
Republic of China (lhe 1997 edition). Subject to further confirmation at project appraisal, the
National Audit Office has-been identified as the auditor for the project. Annual audit reports will
be issued in the name of the China National Audit Office. The general project accounts related to
the sources and uses of the project funds, and guarantee program accounts will be audited
separately. Separate audit reports for the two accounts will be issued. The Bank requires that
project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank. Audit
reports of the annual financial statements will be sent to the Bank within 6 months of the end of
each calendar year. The audit report on general project accounts should have a separate opinion on
Statement of Expenditure and Special Accounts. The annual audit on guarantee program will cover
the accounts of the specialized fund only, and not the accounts of the whole guarantee company, as
the funds will remain the property of the MOF, will be legally isolated from the funds of the
company, and will be protected from any unrelated claims against the company.
Disbursements
Special Account. One Special Account will be opened and managed by PMO in US
Dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation to the special account is
equivalent to US$400,000, which represents the grant financing of average expenditures for four
months. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly, or
whenever the accounts are drawn down by 50 percent, whichever comes first. The Special Account
will be used only for disbursements of categories I and 2. For category 3, the Guarantee Program
Special Fund, the special account will not be used for disbursement, and the funds will be
disbursed directly to Guarantee Program Special Fund account on the basis of the Guarantee
Program Implementation Agreement.
68



Reimbursement procedures. All of the withdrawal applications for the World Bank
including direct payments to the Guarantee Program IA(s) should be submitted by the PMO with
signature by authorized persons. The expenditures may incurred in various entities, including the
EMC Service Group/Association, the Guarantee Program IA(s), or the PMO. Each entity is
responsible to collect original financial documents, and submit them to the PMO for
reimbursement. The PMO is responsible to prepare withdrawn applications together with other
required documents for the World Bank.
Use of statement of expenditures (SOEs).   Disbursement will be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures related to: (a) consultants' services under
contracts awarded to consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants'
services under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less than $50,000equivalent
each; (c) all incremental operating costs. The supporting documents for SOEs would be retained by
PMO. In case of contracts for services above these thresholds, disbursement would be made against
the full documentation with contracts themselves and other supporting documents.
Allocation of the Grant Proceeds (table C). The GEF funds would be allocated into the
3 categories as the following table. Eligible expenditures for the incremental operating costs of the
EMC Service Group/Association and the Guarantee Program IA(s), under Category I include local
staff travel and per-diem and office costs, including rental, utilities, consumable goods,
maintenance and repairs. Disbursements against these categories will be subject to the Bank's
prior review of the annual operating cost budgets of the entities concerned. For the EMC Service
Group/Association, incremental operating costs payable with GEF grant proceeds represent 50% of
the total estimated core institutional operating costs of the Group/Association (which is a new
entity developed under the project) over the seven-year project implementation period, and GEF
grant payments will represent a declining share of the total over the first five years, and zero
percent of the total during the last two years. For the IA, incremental operating costs payable with
grant proceeds represent an estimated 7% of the total estimated operating costs of implementing
the Guarantee Program over the seven-year project implementation period, and GEF grant
payments will represent a declining share of the total over the period.
A waiver of the disbursement requirements of OP14.40 and OP12.00 has been obtained for
disbursement under Category 3 as discussed in the main text of the PAD. Disbursements under
this category will be made into one or more EMC Guarantee Program Special Funds, based on
Guarantee Program Implementation Agreements satisfactory to the Bank. For each Fund, up to
50% of the total amount allocated in the respective Implementation Agreement will be disbursed in
a First Tranche, upon the Bank's receipt of satisfactory evidence that the respective
Implementation Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, has been duly authorized and executed, and is
valid and enforceable. Disbursement of Second and Third Tranches, of up to 25% of the total
amount allocated in the respective Implementation Agreement, will be disbursed upon the Bank's
receipt of satisfactory evidence that the respective Guarantee Program Implementing Agency has
made guarantee commitments, under terms and conditions set form in the project Operations
Manual and the respective Implementation Agreement, in an aggregate face value at least equal to
the sum of prior disbursements. As it is expected that only one Fund will probably be established,
under one Implementation Agreement, it is likely that only three disbursements under this Category
will be required.
69



TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF GRANT PROCEEDS
Expenditure Category             Amount           Financial Percentage
in SDR million
(1) Incremental Operating Costs
(a) under Part A (EMC Service            0.20                   100%
Component) of the Project
(b) under Part C (EM.C Loan Guarantee    0.85                   100%
Program) of the Project
(2) Consultants' services
(a) under Part A of the Project          0.87                   91%
(b) under Part B (Project Management     0.46                   91%
and Monitoring Component) of the
Project
(c) under Part C of the Project          0.38                   91%
(3) EMC Guarantee Program Special         16.64          100% of the amount of the
Fund                                                    allotment deposited into the
Special Fund
(4) Unallocated                            0.30
TOTAL                       19.70
Note: The GEF grant amount is converted to SDR at exchange rate of US$1.32274 per SDR.
70



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ClFItNA: Second Energy Conservation Project
Project Schedule                                Planned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                     11/99
GEF Council Approval                             12/15/01               12/07/01
Appraisal mission departure                     04/01/02                03/25/02
Negotiations                                    09/01/02                09/06/02
GEF CEO Endorsement                             09/25/02
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/31/02
Prepared by: State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC)
Preparation assistance: Multiple Chinese agencies, experts and intemational advisers
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                          Specialty
R. Taylor                           Task Manager
C. Husband                          Financial Analysis
J. Singh                            Energy Efficiency
J. Chu                              Operations
H.C. Nguyen                         Legal
M. Png                              Legal
M. Ogawa                            Financial Analysis
T. Velilla                          Program Assistant
71



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. EMC Service Group (April 2002)
2. China National Investment and Guarantee Company Business Plan (January 2002)
B. Project Documents for Phase I Project
1. China Energy Conservation Project Appraisal Document (February 26, 1998)
2. China Energy Conservation Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire (December 18, 2000)
3. China Energy Conservation Supervision Mission Aide Memoire (June 17, 2002)
4. Minutes of SETC Meeting on EMC Legal Status (May 8, 2001)
C. Other
1. EMC Market Survey
2. List of Seminars/Meetings with Chinese Financial Institutions on EMC Financing
3. Environmental Reviews and Impacts
4. Project P'rocurement Plan
5. Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement: Summary Report
6. Financial Management Assessment
72



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
09-Aug-2002
Difference between
expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursementsa
Project ID      FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Fm,n Rev'd
P06.4729      2002   SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PRO            93.90       0.00                 0.00      0.00      93.90       0.16      0.00
P058846       2002   National Railway Project                       160.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     136.09      30.26      0.00
P068049       2002   Hubei Hydropower Developnrrent in Poor Are     105.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     105.00       0.00      0.00
P070459       2002  Inner Mongolia Highway Project                  100.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     100.00       0.00      0.00
P071147       2002   Tuberojilosis Control Project                  104.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    103.33      -0.67      0.00
P058645       2001   Jiangxir II Hwy                                200.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     188.22       3.89      0.00
P056516       2001   WATER CONSERVATION                              74.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     62.52       5.07      0.00
P056596       2001   Shijiazhtuanig Urban Transport                 100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     99.00      32.57      0.00
P056199       2001   Third Inland Waterways                         100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     96.00      -0.83      0.00
P047345       2001   CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL                105.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00    102.05      -3.45      0.00
P051859       2001   CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                            100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     93.00       3.21      0.00
P045915       2001   Urumqi Urban Transport                         100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     71.22      16.67      0.00
P056424       2000   TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                           320.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    304.94      47.34      0.00
P049436       2000   CN-CHONGOING URBAN ENVIRONMENT                 200,00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    189.53      22.43      0.00
P045910       2000   CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    140.03      24.11      0.00
P045264       2000   SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                            93.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00     51.23      24.78      0.00
P042109       2000   CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT 11                      349.00       0.00                25.00       0.00    352.24     102.20      0.00
P064730       2000   Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project             210.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    164.56      86.89      0.00
P058844       2000   3rd Henan Prov Hwy                             150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    123.54      21.21      0.00
P058843       2000   Guangxi Highway                                200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    167.60      41.76       0.00
P046829       1999   RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                   100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     12.87      87.37      0.00
P046564       1999   Gansu &Inner Mongolia Poverty Reduction         60.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00     99.09      38.34       1.11
P046051       1999   CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                          20.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00     31.31      28.86       0.00
P003653       1999   ContainerTransport                              71.00       0,00                 0.00       3.13     26.33      29.18       0.00
P043933       1999   CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                   150.00       2.00                 0.00       0.00     98.09      34.76       5.60
P042299       1999   TEC COOP CREDIT IV                              10.00      35.00                 0.00       0.00     40.41      -3.58       0.00
P041890       1999   Liaonring Urban Transport                      150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     74.15      49.95       0.00
P036953       1999   CN-HEALTH-IIX                                   10.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00     43.55      10.31       0.00
P049665       1999   ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                            90.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00     49.77       7.40       0.00
P0516888      1999   GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                            80.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00     62.22      28.77       0.00
P056216       1999   LOESS PLATEAU It                               100.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00     87.11      54.83       0.00
P057352       1999   CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                        16.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00     32.16      13.60      -2.93
P058308       1999   CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                            0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00      2.53       2.61       0.00
P060270       1999   CN-ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                          0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00      4.39       6.16       1.22
P038121       1999   RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     0.00       0.00                35.00       0,00     26.67      14.34       0.00
P041268       1999   Nat Hwy4ffHubei-Hunan                          350.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     181.48     55.73       0.00
P051856       1999   ACCOUNTING REFORM & DEVELOPMENT                 27.40       5.60                 0.00       0.00     21.82      21.23       0.00
P050036       1999   Anhui Provincial Hwy                           200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     96.60      27.55       0.00
P051705       1999   Fujian 11 Highway                              200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     133.66     90.83       0.00
P040185       1998   CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                         95.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     30.29      24.38       0.00
P049700       1998  IAIL-2                                          300,00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     49.46      12.43       0.00
P036949       1998   Nat Hwy3-Hubel                                 250.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     47.29      -8.54       0.00
P037859       1998   EGY CONSERVATION PRO                             0.00       0.00                22.00       0.00      5.06      21.73       0.00
P046952       1998   FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                            100.00    100.00                 0.00       0.00     84.35     -30.29      51.71
P045788       1998   Tri-Provincial Hwy                             230.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     79.75      42.95       0.00
P051736       1998   E. CHINAIJIANGSU PWR                           250.00       0.00                 0.00      86.00     76.04     162.04       2.11
P046563       1998   TARIM BASIN 11                                  90.00      60.00                 0.00       2.67     72.39      54.99       0.00
P003566       1998   CN-BASIC HEALTH IHLTH8)                          0.00      85,00                 0.00       0.00     42.12      22.78       0.00
P003591       1998   STATE FARMS COMMERCI                           150.00       0.00                 0.00      60.91      8.45      81.38       1.46
P003619       1996   2nd Inland Waterways                            123.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     80.34      64.34       0.00
P03S698       1998   HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                           300.00       0.00                 0.00     100.00     176.67    234.67      20.61
P003614       1998   Guangzhou City Transport                       200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     130.81    126.78       0.00
P003539       1998   SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DEV.              100.00      0.00                 0.00       2.31     49.48      32.63       0.00
73



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID      FY   Purpose                                  IBRD         IDA                   GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P036414       1998  CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                   72.00     20.00                0.00      0.00     79.69      50.19      1.10
P003606       1998  ENERGY CONSERVATION                            63.00      0.00               22.00      0.00     48.12      13.44      0.00
P003637       1997  CN-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                    0.00      70.00                0.00      0.00     11.76      10.93     10.03
P003635       1997  CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PFROJ                       10.00     20.00                0.00      0.00      0.29       1.42      0.00
P003643       1997  Xinjiang Hwy 11                               300.00      0.00                0.00     60.00     26.77      86.77     15.10
P003650       1997  TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                          400.00      0.00                0.00    102.50     96.09    1172.41     -6.81
P038988       1997  HEILONGJIANG ADP                              120.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     23.52      21.27      0.00
P036952       1997  CN-BASIC ED. IV                                 0.00     85.00                0.00      0.00      2.26       5.04      0.00
P036405       1997  WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                          400.00      0.00                0.00     75.00      52.22    124.72     -12.78
P003590       1997  QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTION              30.00    150.00                0.00      0.00      70.38     73.09      0.00
P035693       1997  FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                             0.00      0.00               32.80      0.00      9.33      32.81      0.00
P044485       1997  SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIACO                         400.00       0.00                0.00      0.00     190.95   '102.10     15.50
P034081       1997  XIAOLANGDI MULTI. 11                          430.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      92.63    123.49     118.85
P003654       1997  Nat Hwy2fHunan-Guangdong                      400.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     109.73    109.73      0,00
P003589       1996  CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                   0.00    100.00                0.00      0.00      15.31     25.40      0.00
P003594       1996  GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                            60.00     00.00                0.00      0.00      93.90     63.52       0.00
P040513       1996  2nd Henan Prov Hwy                            210.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      61.97     61.97      -3.02
P003599       1996  CN-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                 125.00     25.00                0.00      0.00      88.16     81 53     49.05
P003602      11996  CN-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                    125.00     25.00                0.00     28.32      54.30     84.75     39.60
P003646       1996  CN-CHONGOING IND PCLCT                        170.00      0.00                0.00     1 64.82     2.72    167.54       2.72
P003648       1996  CN-SH-ANGHAI SEWERAGE 11                      250.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      9`1.13    91.13       3.38
P003649       1996  SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                            0.00    100.00                0.00      0.00       6.57     15.89       0.00
P003638       1996  SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                           80.00     20.00                0.00      9.40      17.77     28.22      0.00
P034618       1996  CN-LABOR MARKET DE/.                           10,00     20.00                0.00      0.00       6.45      8.68      0.00
P036947       1995  SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                          270.00      0.00                0.00     95.00      12.17    107.17      -0.12
P003598       1995  CN-LiAONING ENVIRONMENT                       1110.00     0.00                0.00      0.00      15.07     15.07      7.66
P003596       1995  YANGTZE BASIN WATER                           100.00    110.00                0.00      0.00       2.67      5.20       5.20
P003647       1995  China Econonic Law Reform -LEGEA                0.00     10.00                0.00      0.00       4.24      4.86       0.00
P036041       1995  FISCAL &TAX REF. &                             25.00     25.00                0.00      0.00       0.64      3.15       3.15
P003585       1995  SHENYANG IND.REFOFRM                          175.00      0,00                0.00      0.00      41.52     41.52       0.00
P003639       1995  SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT            47.50    200.00                0.00      0.00      14.87     39.43      39.43
P003571       1995  R.AILWAYS VI]                                 400.00      0.00                0.00     109.00     75.18    181.16      20.21
P003642       1995  ZHEJIANG POWER DE\(7                          400.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      62.15     67.77       0.00
P003603       1995  CN-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF           275.00     75.00                0.00     20.00     102.21    120.69      56.64
P003600       1995  CN-TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                     200.00      0.00                0.00       3.02     20.97     23.99       0.00
P003540      11994  LOESS PLATEAU                                   0.00    150.00                0.00      0.00       2.22     -0.43       0.00
P003586       1994  CN-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMEN4T PROJECT              160.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      29.65     29.65       8.91
P003404       1994  SICHUAN GAS DEV. COIN                          0.00       0.00               10.00       0.00      0.02      0.78       0.00
P003644       1994  XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                         0.00    110.00                0.00      0.00       2.04      0.15      -3.34
P003641       1994  YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                          350.00      0.00                0.00      11.50      3.32     14.82       1.43
P003626      11994  Fujian Pfov Highway                           140.00      0.00                0.00      18.11i    12.29     30.40      30.38
P003609       1994  SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                255.00      0.00               10.00       0.00     52.16     52.16       0.00
P003595       1994  RED SOILSII1AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT            0.00    150.00                0.00       0.00      5.85      1.19      -0.51
P003592       1993  REF. INSTlL-A PREINV                            0.00     50.00                0.00       0.00      2.64      3.15       1.75
P003473       1993  CN-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT             0.00    110.00                0.00       0.00      2.20      2.38      -2.53
P003632       1993  CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                         0.00     50.00                0.00       0.00      4.855     5.46       5.14
P003627      11993  GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                          325.00    165.00                0.00       0.00     33.19     34.02      20.89
P003623       1993  FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                            0.00     60.00                0.00       0.00      2.03      -3.52     -3.52
Total:    13724.80   2617.60             156.80      971.66    6576.84   4236.38    504.18
74



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company                      Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                    Orient Finance               9.52    0.00    0.00    11.90   9.52    0.00     0.00   11.90
1997/00                 PTP Holdings                 0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03     0.00    0.00
1997                    PTP Hubei                   11.72    0.00    0.00   23.29    11.72   0.00     0.00   23.29
1996                    Pacific Ports                0.00    2.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.54     0.00    0.00
2001                    Peak Pacific                 0.00    0.00   25.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                    Rabobank SHFC                0.90    0.00    0.00    0.90    0.90    0.00     0.00    0.90
2000                    SSIF                         0.00    6.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00
1998                    Shanghai Krupp              30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    19.74   0.00     0.00   45.26
1999                    Shanxi                      17.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.32   0.00     0.00    0.00
1993                    Shenzhen PCCP                3.76    0.99    0.00     0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
2001                    Sino-Forest                 25.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                    Suzhou PVC                   0.00    2.48    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.48    0.00    0.00
1998                    WIT                          5.00    0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000                    Wanjie Hospital             15.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                    Weihai Weidongri             1.92    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                    Yantai Cement               11.13    1.95    0.00     0.00   11.13    1.95    0.00    0.00
1998                    Zhen Jing                    0.00    2.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
2002                    Advantage                    0.00    0.25     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999/00/02              Bank of Shanghai             0.00   24.67    0.00     0.00    0.00   24.67    0.00    0.00
1996                    Beijing Hormel               2.50    0.50    0.00     1.65    2.50    0.50    0.00    1.65
1998/00                 CIG Holdings PLC             0.00    3.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002                    CPEF                         0.00   20.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                    Caltex Ocean                18.53    0.00    0.00    28.64   18.53    0.00    0.00   28.64
1998                    Chengdu Huarong              7.40    3.20    0.00     8.60    3.70    3.20    0.00    4.30
1998                    Chengxin-IBCA                0.00    0.36    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94              China Bicycles               0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                    China Walden Mgt             0.00    0.01    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994                    China Walden Ven             0.00    0.21     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.00    0.00
1994                    Dalian Glass                 0.00    2.40    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1999                    Dujiangyan                  25.59    0.00    0.00    30.00   16.11    0.00    0.00    18.89
1995                    Dupont Suzhou               12.46    4.15    0.00    10.40   12.46    4.15    0.00    10.40
1994                    Dynamic Fund                 0.00    9.75    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.09    0.00    0.00
1999                    Hansom                       0.00   16.10    0.00     0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
2002                    Huarong AMC                 31.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2002                    IEC                         20.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996                    Jingyang                    32.50    0.00     0.00   69.23   32.50    0.00    0.00   69.23
1998                    Leshan Scana                 6.10    1.35    0.00     0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
2001                    Maanshan Carbon              9.00    2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2002                    NCCB                         0.00   26.58     0.00    0.00    0.00   26.46     0.00    0.00
1996                    Nanjing Kumho                6.82    3.81     0.00   19.38    6.82    3.81    0.00    19.38
2001                    New China Life               0.00   30.70     0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32     0.00    0.00
1995                    Newbridge Inv.               0.00    1.95    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.95    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      304.22   166.98   25.00   277.79  206.13  127.02     0.00  233.84
75



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002                   Darong                          10.00      0.00      1.50     8.00
2002                   Narada Battery                   6.60      0.00      0.00     0.00
2002                   Zhong Chen                      25.00      0.00      0.00    32.00
2002                   ASIMCO                           0.00     13.50      1.50     0.00
2002                    Sino Mining                     5.00      0.00      0.00      5.00
2002                   Shuang Deng                     12.50      0.00      2.80     0.00
2002                   KHIT                             0.00     .0.00      3.00     0.00
2002                   SML                              0.00      0.00      6.00     0.00
1996                   Jingyang                         4.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1998                   PTP Hubei BLINC                  0.00      0.00      0.00     1.50
2000                   CIG Zhapu                        6.00      5.00      0.00      0.00
2000                    Meijing                         9.00      0.00      0.00      7.30
2000                   CIMIC Tile                      15.00      5.00      0.00     15.00
2001                   Daning Coal                      0.00      0.00      2.00     15.00
2001                   AACI                             0.00      0.00      2.00      0.00
2001                   Minsheng                         0.00     23.50      0.00      0.00
2002                   Huarong AMC                     15.00      0.00      3.00      0.00
2002                   IEC                              0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      108.10     52.00     21.80    83.80
76



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Asia &  middle-
China    Pacific  Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                   1,262.5    1,853    2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  840      1,060     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                  1,061.2    1,964    2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       1.0       1.1       1.0                   ,G
Laborforce(%)                                        1.2       1.4       1.3    GNI           7                 Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199400)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  5         -.
Urban population (% of total population)              36       35        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     70        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             30        35        32
Child malnutribon (% of children under 5)             9         13       11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  75        75       80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                  16         14       15              China
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  123      119      114
Male                                               123       121      116        --    Lower-middle-income group
Female                                            123        121      114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                        216.2    363.0     997.5   1,076.9
Gross domestic investmentGDP               35.2     34.7      37.2      37.3                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           7.6     17.5      22.0      25.9                   T
Gross domestic savingstGDP                 34.9     37.9      40.1      39.9
Gross national savingslGDP                 34.9     38.3      38.7      39.2
Current account balance/GDP                 -0.4     3.8       1.6       1.9     Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                       0.2      0.7       0.6       0.7    savings
Total debVGDP                                ..     15.2      15.5      13.9
Total debt servicelexports                  8.0      9.9       9.0       7,4
Present value of debUGDP                     ..       ..      13.5
Present value of debVexports                 ..       ..      58.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                10.1    10.3      7.1       7.9       7.4              China
GDP per capita                      8.5     9.2      6.1       7.2       6.7              Lower-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices          11.0    16.5     13.9      32.0      11.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of lnvestnent and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      20
Agriculture                                30.1     27.0      17.6      15.9
Industry                                   48.5     41.6      49.4      50.9
Manufactunng                              40.5     32.9      33.6     34.5    :l
Services                                   21.4     31.3      32.9      33.2     c
Private consumption                        50.5     49.9      47.4      47.0           95    9e   97   98    99   00
Generalgovemmentconsumption                 14.6    12.1      12.5      13.1              -    GDI     -;*  GDP
Imports of goods and services               7.9     14.3      19.1      23.2
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%/)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 5.9      4.1       2.8       2.4    40
Industry                                    11.1    13.7       8.1       9.6    30
Manufacturing                             11.1     13.4       8.3      9.7    20
Services                                    13.5     9.0       7.5       7.8    1s'
Private consumption                         9.4      8.8       2.6       6.0                            .
General govemment consumpton                9.8      9.4       8.4      12.0   -10'    95    96   97    o    99 
Gross domestic investment                   10.8    11.6       3.2       7.9                 Exports   -mVports
Imports of goods and services               9.1     16.1      22.3      24.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wfth its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete,
77



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Diomesdc prices                                                               20
(% change)2-
Consumer prices                            25.7     3.4       0.4      0.7    15
Implicit GDP deflator                       2.3     6.7       0.9      0.0    10
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            0                  -
Current revenue                            24.2    16.9      15.3     17.2    -5      s     97    U0               01
Current budget balance                              2.3       0.6      1.0                  GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     0.8    -1.1      -3.6     -3.2
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1981    1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      22,007  71,843   249,210  266,155     300,000
Food                                    2,924    7,226    12,282   12,780
Fuel                                    5,228    4,754     7,851    8,420    2
Manufactures                            11.759  55,698   23,752   239,800    2ooo000
Total imports (cif)                      22,015  63,791   225,097  243.610
Food                                    3,622    2,799     4,758    4,980    100.000
Fuel and energy                            83    2.113    20,637   17,490
Capital goods                           5,866   19,601    91,934  107,040        0      1 I,
ss  90   57  98   w0   oD  o0
Export price index (1995=100)                16      51        67       65
Import pceindex(1995=100)                    13      49        75       73                  *Exporls    Elmports
Ternmsoftrade(1995=100)                     118     103        90       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1981    1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            24,410  78,909   279,561  299,410     5-
Imports of goods and services            23,426  65,339   250,688  271,324
Resource balance                           984    13,570   28,873   28,086
Net Income                                 -124     840   -14,666   -19,173    3-
Net current transfers                               830     6,311    8,492     2 -
Currentaccountbalance                       860   15,240   20,519    17,405    1          1      1      .   .
Financing items (net)                            -4,149    -9,971   29,920     o
Changes in net reserves                          -11,091   -10,548  -47,325       00   go   97   9D   99    00   01
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           48,154   171,753   219,970
Conversion rate (DEC, loca/IUS$)            2.1     5.4       8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                 CompositIon of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      5,798   60,259  149,800   170.000
IBRD                                       0    3,494    11,118    11,479
IDA                                        0    3,672     8,771    8.550               G: 17,682  A 11,479
Totail debt service                       1,744   8,305    21,728    20,900                            B: 8,550
IBRD                                       0      357     1,291     1,716
IDA                                         0      23       131      164                 D, 0: 23,217
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            19     406       147                        \,                 27,510
Official creditors                        506   2,044     1,927
Private creditors                         89    2,493    -2,302                  F:81    ;E.5F2
Foreign direct investment                  0    4,366    42,096   47,052
Portfolio equity                           0      565     7,814    2,404
World Bank program
Commitments                               196   2,622     1.536     1,230    A - ilRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              0     1,280    1,907     1,947    B-IDA    D-Otherrulblateral  F- Private
Prtncipal repayments                        0     131       644      999     C-iMF                     G - Short-teIm
Netflows                                    0    1,149    1,263      948
Interest payments                           0     250       778      881
Net transfers                               0     899       485       67
Development Economics                                                                                          9/14/02
78



Annex 11: China's EMC Industry
CHINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
This annex provides further details on the results of various evaluation of the
implementation results of the EMC Demonstration Component of the first phase of the China
Energy Conservation Project, an assessment of lessons learned and issues and their solutions
resulting from these evaluations, the results of consultations with the Chinese financial community,
and the results of market soundings on new and emerging EMCs.
EXPERIENCE OF THIUE THIIREE DEMONSTRATION EMCs
The results of the demonstration EMCs in Beijing, Liaoning and Shandong supported
under the first phase China Energy Conservation Project have been very closely monitored from
the beginning. The Bank and SETC have conducted in-depth, formal reviews together with the
three EMCs at least twice per year since the EMCs were founded in 1997, as part of the project
supervision process. The reviews include evaluation of each EMC's project portfolio, financial
results, energy savings and carbon reduction results, management and institutional building efforts,
project procurement, business plans for the future, and outstanding issues and options for their
resolution.  Findings are reported in PMO and EMC biannual reports, and the biannual Bank
project supervision mission aide memoire reports. A major Project Mid-term Review was
conducted by the Bank, SETC and MOF in November 2000, in accordance with original plans, and
the mid-term review aide memoire report is available in the project file. The PMO commissioned
an outside, independent review of the status and work of the three EMC in 2000, which was
completed by the China Energy Conservation Investment Corporation's consulting department, and
used as an input for the project mid-term review. GEF Secretariat staff also conducted independent
site investigations of this project in 2000, and this and other information was utilized by the
Secretariat's consultants in their preparation of a 2000/2001 review of the results of GEF-supported
projects involving ESCOs.
Overall progress has been fully satisfactory, with each of the three pilot EMCs developing
their respective businesses. Given that their business is entirely new in the Chinese market, the
progress of the three EMCs has been exceptionally good by international standards. As of April
2002, the three EMCs had entered into 209 energy perfornance contracts with aggregate
investment of US$45.5 million (RMB 377 million). Of this total, $3.3 million was supported by
the European Commission (EC) grant, $9.4 by the GEF grant, $20.2 million by the IBRD loan and
$12.6 million from internal and other financing. An additional $6.2 million in projects had been
approved and contracts were under negotiation. Average annual financial rates of return of the
subprojects have exceeded 20% per year. Repayments from EMC customers (referred to as host
enterprises) has been good-with very few exceptions, payments have been made according to
contract. All three EMCs declared net profits in 2001, and plan to continue to expand their
businesses. As of April 2002, EMC investments had already delivered aggregate energy savings of
867 thousand tons of coal equivalent (tce) and associated carbon dioxide emission reductions of
577 thousand tons of carbon (t-c). Energy savings and carbon dioxide emission reductions from
the direct investments of the three companies are certain to continue to grow substantially, from
both additional future savings from the equipment already put in place, and from expected further
major increases in investment.
79



Special Characteristics of the Chinese EMCs
While EMCs in China are, in many respects, similar to ESCOs in the West, they have
developed a number of unique features in their business strategies and operations over the past five
years, including the following:
*  The three EMCs have provided all of the financing for their projects (although host
enterprises may finance and complete additional related renovation works themselves).
The EMCs borrow funds for their operations based on the strength of their balance sheet.
Host enterprises are not a party to loan obligations from the lender to the EMCs.
*  The projects of the EMCs typically incorporate project design, equipment financing,
equipment procurement, equipment installation, commissioning and testing, and limited
maintenance.  The core ingredients of all projects include financing, procurement,
installation and testing/commissioning. Design work usually also involves host enterprise
staff.
*  Projects do not proceed from completed detailed facility audits, but rather are designed to
focus on one technology or system ("project lines"). Thus the constraint of audit costs or
project development costs are not as critical an issue with Chinese EMCs as with Westem
ESCOs, but the scope of projects is usually narrower.
*  Projects are truly energy conservation projects-cash flows resulting from energy savings
are the main benefits. Probably well over one-half of the projects are in the $200,000-
500,000 range. Contract terms are generally 2-3 years. Coal-saving projects are at least as
common as electricity-saving projects.
*  Technology and equipment is primarily domestic-for the fairly common types of
equipment involved, foreign companies generally cannot compete on price with Chinese
manufacturers. Also, many of the projects are too small to attract serious interest from
intemational suppliers.
* Energy performance contracts between EMCs and clients have been significantly simpler
than typical ESCO contracts in the West. Project design and energy savings estimates are
reviewed and agreed by both parties. Payment schedules are negotiated and fixed in the
contracts, based on a percentage share of the estimated energy cost savings of the project
which will accrue to the EMC (generally 60-100%). Energy savings guarantee clauses are
included, stipulating how payments would change if actual savings per unit of output or
time period are determined through testing to be substantially (e.g. 5-10%) higher or lower
than estimated. Testing is simple, and much of the energy savings are, in fact, stipulated
after commissioning. There have been virtually no disagreements about savings and
payment levels-as long as the equipment performs as planned, the payment schedules
established in the contracts are retained. There has been no demand from host enterprises
for in-depth or complex energy savings monitoririg and verification.
* For the EMCs, the most important single criterion for project selection is the financial
assessment of the host enterprise, and the EMC's evaluation of the enterprises' willingness
and ability to make payments. Some form of financial guarantee/definition of collateral is
often included in the energy performance contracts.
* Financial management of their project portfolio and associated risks is a major part of the
EMC business.
EMC Markets and Project Lines
The potential for financially attractive energy efficiency projects in China remains substantial.
Given the enormous size of China, the sheer number of industrial and commercial energy users, the
80



age of equipment and technologies employed and relative energy intensities, it is clear that new and
existing EMCs will have a robust pipeline of energy efficiency projects to pursue in the foreseeable
future. The resounding success of the three pilot EMCs has clearly demonstrated that the EMC
model can work in China and represents an attractive service option and alternative project
financing source for domestic enterprises. The experiences of the three pilot EMCs to date, while
not an exact representation of the full Chinese EMC market, offers valuable data about the market
for EMC project investments in China.
Initial business experiences among the three EMCs, with critical EC and GEF support,
allowed each EMC to test a range of technologies and applications and identify markets to replicate
successful project lines. While all three EMCs continue to offer a number of similar project lines,
their project portfolios and markets have begun to develop along distinctive paths based on
differences among each of the EMCs' service territories and company expertise: Beijing, which
has a lighter industrial base, has focused more on heating and cooling systems in hotels and office
and residential buildings (electric heaters, heat pumps); Liaoning has a high concentration of
industry, particularly iron/steel and chemical plants, and has found a good market for boiler and
kiln/furnace renovations; Shandong has been able to replicate motor system improvements in a
diverse range of host enterprises, developed a strong boiler renovation and heat recovery business,
and found a few large, creditworthy enterprises in which to develop a pipeline of different technical
renovations.
About 14 different technical project lines have been developed by the three companies,
taken together.  The main key product lines include boiler renovations (layered industrial
combustion systems, boiler replacements, deployment of FBC technology), kilns/furnaces/cement
and ceramic kilns, electric arc furnaces, glass furnaces, waste heat (waste heat recovery, ground
source heat pumps, condensed water recovery) industrial cogeneration, steam hammer renovations,
motor drive systems, power supply (electrical distribution systems, transformers), automatic
control systems and lighting systems (CFLs, ballasts). A breakdown of the total EMC investments
by technical project line, as of March 2002, is shown in Figure 1.
In terms of host enterprises, industrial projects clearly have been the largest market for the
three EMCs and will likely continue to be a major market for new EMC projects. Within the
industrial sector, major subsectors have included iron and steel, chemical, rubber, and textile,
although many of the technical renovations (e.g., kilns, boilers, motors) are not industry specific.
The three EMCs have also found a strong market for energy efficiency projects with utilities
(power, heat and water). Each of the pilot EMCs has sought to balance their portfolios with some
non-industrial projects, such as heating and cooling renovations in government/commercial
buildings, lighting projects in hotels/tourist resorts, and projects in shopping centers, hospitals, and
farms. Figure 2 contains a full breakdown of EMC customers.
81



Figure 1: EMC Project Line Breakdown
Cogenurion
P     y  2%  Lighting
4%
Oontrob, s
4%
25%
2rE<__2     F     ~~~~23%
...z.... ..
While project lines have not changed vastly from initial plans, each EMC has found elements of
competition from equipment suppliers as project lines are developed and actively marketed. Once
newer technologies have been demonstrated and simpler renovations implemented, the initial
financial returns tend to diminish over time for replication of the same simple projects. Thus a key
aspect of the EMC business has been to maintain a step ahead of the market and build simpler
renovations into broader, multi-project relationships with the same customer, or into more complex
project lines with great:er value added. As the larger EMC industry develops in the future, it is
certain that the market will become yet more sophisticated and diverse.
Figure 2: EMC Host Enterprises
FbWls/
Residenbial P
Bldg 3
Off,ceComm 4% I
InduStry
* - 7056
82



Issues and their Resolution
The main issues identified and discussed during the November 2000 Mid-Term Project
Review on the Demonstration EMC Component included: (a) urgent needs to clarify the nature,
legal standing and tax treatment of the EMC's energy performance contracts, as these instruments
are new and were being interpreted in different ways by different entities; (b) difficulties
experienced by some EMCs in developing markets for a high volume of business without excessive
risks, and needs to continually develop new product lines and expand the service content of
projects; and (c) the need to consider adjusting the procurement plans of the project.
As the business of the three EMCs grew over late 1999 and 2000, confusion mounted
among authorities at various government levels as to how to classify the EMC business for
purposes of economic regulation, taxation and financial auditing. Some local authorities even
stated beliefs that the business did not conform with existing regulations. As practiced by the three
EMCs, the EMC business defies easy classification into traditional categories, as it combines
elements of technical service, equipment sale with deferred payments, construction and installation
contracting, and project management and equipment maintenance into one contract package.
Although it was not known initially what specific problems would be encountered, the surfacing of
these types of problems was expected at the outset of the project-indeed a key goal of the
demonstration project was to adapt the ESCO model to Chinese conditions, solving various
implementation issues as they arose. During 2000, the issue of classification of the EMC business
was debated many times at different levels. Finally, in a comprehensive meeting with various
relevant authorities on April 26-27, 2001, organized and chaired by SETC, it was concluded and
officially documented that "...the business operation of energy performance contracting conforms
to Chinese existing laws, and legal status problem for EMCs referred to by some persons does not
exist." Financial auditing and economic regulation issues have thus been satisfactorily resolved.
Tax treatment of EMCs, however, remains under investigation. SETC's PMO and the EMC
Industry Development Steering Committee are completing their research of this issue, after which
the central government's Bureau of Taxation is expected to make a ruling on taxation of energy
performance contracts.
With respect to market development, the three EMC managers will be the first to admit,
despite their success, that the EMC business is not simple and easy. The business requires striking
a difficult balance between financial risk and returns, between investment and service, between
technical value-added and minimal technical risk, and between new business models and traditional
methods of doing business. EMCs must maintain a balance between high quality technical staff
with constantly evolving project lines and markets, seek out new technologies and practices to
maintain a competitive edge, achieve corporate growth without sacrificing quality and customer
service, replicate and expand promising project lines while maintaining high financial returns and
repayments, and develop innovate ways to isolate project cash flows in less creditworthy
enterprises.
The three pilot EMCs in particular are already seeking ways to address many of these
issues by establishing strategic partnerships with technical institutes and local banks, improving
their financial appraisal and management systems, conducting market and technology reviews, etc.
and will continue to explore altematives as their businesses and markets evolve. Greater EMC
value-added for clients (preserving comparative advantage and resulting in strong project financial
retums) can be achieved through new technical concepts, or use of technologies still relatively new
in the Chinese market. In addition, greater value-added can also be achieve through better
integration of service aspects in project packages-this has been the key to ESCO business
83



successes abroad. While service aspects may be of less interest to some clients in the Chinese
market, the EMCs may find significant opportunities by placing additional emphasis on marketing
"full service" packages, whereby the EMCs would offer to review industrial facilities and
processes and design customized projects which could optimize energy use using a series of
improvements/projects.
With respect to procurement, difficulties have been experienced in project implementation
to adapt EMC procurement to World Bank guidelines. Means to allow increased flexibility are
under discussion. For the Phase II project, however, similar issues are not anticipated, as the Bank
will not be directly involved in the financing of any EMC subprojects.
EMERGING EMC INDUSTRY MARKET
New EMCs
Based on the successful business development of the three pilot EMCs, there has been
substantial interest from other companies in creating new EMCs in China. A market study
completed during the latter half of 2001 for the PMO identified 6 newly formed EMCs, operating
with company staff of 20-30 persons each. Three of the companies had registered capital of RMvIB
10 million ($1.2 million), while the other three had registered capital of RMB 1.5-3.8 million
($180,000-460,000). with registered capital of under 5 million yuan (about US$600,000) and 20-
30 staff. However, given the complex nature of the business and general unfamiliarity of energy
performance contracting in China, investments made by these companies have been limited to date.
The survey also identified an additional 10-15 groups who established EMC subsidiaries but have
suffered from very limited equity, business know-how and EMC operational experience. Aside
from these companies which are made clear moves to establish EMC businesses, there also are at
least 200 firms who have registered an interest in the concept during mid-2000 to mid-2002, and
have begun to explore possibilities for creating EMC.
businesses.
In August 2000, the PMO organized a seminar on the potential of the EMC business in
China. Over 90 firms attended the seminar and/or formally expressed their interest to the PMO in
the EMC business at this initial stage. During 2001 and the first quarter of 2002, the PMO and
EMC Service Group organized three additional introductory training sessions and one advanced
course to better familiarize firms with energy performance contracting. The introductory sessions,
held in Beijing and Kunming, Yunnan Province, have been over-subscribed, with 40-50
participants attending each session. In all, nearly 100 companies, from all over the country, have
participated in the training. Thus far, about 2/3 of the firms have come from northern provinces,
while around 40% are based in the interior. Sixteen companies completed the first advanced
training course In March 2002. Delivery of both introductory and advanced training courses are
further continuing, with expanding coverage.
Many of the training course attendees to date have come from China's local energy
conservation centers. Totaling around 180, these centers were established in the 1980s to provide
technical support to industries in areas of energy conservation. With China's transition from a
centrally planned to market-based economy, these centers are looking for opportunities to market
their services on more commercial terms in order to remain in operation. The EMC business model
represents an attractive option for their sustainability. Most of the other companies involved in
training so far are firms focusing on equipment sales or energy-saving technology companies,
although a few broader energy sector companies and energy investment companies also have been
84



involved. In the future, expanded efforts will be made to engage firms with financing, investment
packaging, and/or strong and comprehensive engineering services skills as well.
Although interest in the EMC model is clearly high, and a good start has been made in
developing and training potential new EMCs, many challenges exist for the EMC Association and
others to foster the strong development of healthy new EMCs. Few firms possess the mix of
expertise ultimately required-including technical, marketing and financing/financial risk
management skills and background. Most of the prospective companies have very limited equity
holdings, which can seriously constrain growth if not addressed. In addition to helping the firms to
become more familiar with the EMC business concepts, challenges exist to help companies to
structure favorable mergers and develop strategic alliances and partnerships.
As noted previously, the three pilot EMCs provide project financing as an integral part of
their overall service. This model has allowed the EMCs to package the entire project together and
thus offer complete project service to their customers. It has also proven very attractive to host
enterprises, offering a clear alternative to on-balance sheet debt, especially since payments to the
EMCs in some cases can be accounted for as operating costs. Many Chinese government and
enterprise officials also believe that EMCs that do not offer financing as part of their overall
service package, but provide only technical service and only help arrange project financing from
others, will not attract sufficient business to survive in today's Chinese market. Thus the existing
model, where the EMC provides financing as part of their overall packaging service, is still
expected to the best means to meet the market demand and probably has the greatest business
potential. However, as the EMC industry and market develops and banking reforms progress, it is
expected that the EMC industry will become more diversified in its financial modalities and levels
of sophistication. While it is expected that EMCs will continue to provide project financing over
the near to medium-term, a wider range of EMC business models are likely to develop and the
project will seek to encourage these new models.
While efforts under the Phase 2 GEF Project will focus on EMC investments, it should be
noted that activities initiated under the Bank/GEF Phase 1 Project under the information
dissemination component are actively addressing technical information and best practices/case
studies to end-users on potential efficiency gains, including investment-oriented and non-
investment improvements. This work will continue. Under the Phase 2 Project, a wide range of
EMCs, from technical consulting firms to full service EMCs (that provide service and financing),
would be fostered and supported. These technical consulting firms may be better positioned to
provide technical information on non-investment oriented energy efficiency improvements and,
based on market demand, the EMC Service Group could provide additional assistance to these
firms through their technical assistance and training programs to EMC members.
Consultations with Financial Institutions
The success of the three EMCs so far has generated intense interest among many other
Chinese parties in developing EMC businesses of various types. During 2000 and 2001, the PMO
and existing/new EMCs participated in over three workshops and numerous individual meetings
with Chinese financial institutions to discuss the potential for energy performance contracting in
China and gauge interest in EMC project financing. The Bank team and PMO also met with
guarantee companies, potential EMC equity investors, and potential GC equity investors to discuss
interest and participation in the Phase II program. (A full list of seminars and meetings with
Chinese banks and a list of participating banks is included in the Project file.)
85



Many domestic banks expressed interest in the EMC concept, especially as this may
provide a useful tool for them to enter into the energy efficiency investment business. The ability
of EMCs to bundle projects together, and shoulder the technical and performance risks of projects,
are attractive to bank officials. However, concems were raised about the newness of the concept,
the lack of sufficient track records in most EMCs, and guarantee or loan collateral issues. These
comments and concerns, raised on a number of occasions, in different settings and with different
banks, have been a key input for the design of the proposed project.
86



Annex 12: Flow Chart for Environmental Clearance of Subprojects
CBINA: Second Energy Conservation Project
EMC's screen proposed subprojects using the Environment Review Checklist,
rejecting subprojects with enterprises on the negative list, and determining if
negative environment impacts exist. Negative impacts?
YES           EMC asks host enterprise to
request Local Environmental
Protection Bureau to review
proposal mitigation plan
NO
EMC provides own
certification and proceeds
with loan guarantee                     ,
application                         Local EPB conducts review
applicato  and determines clearance
NO
YES     /X         ,      -
Subproject
terminated
EMC and local bank submit loan guarantee application to IA with its
own certification or EPB clearance. IA ensures that proper paperwork is
provided
NO
YES
|A reviews and approval determined
NO                      YES
/L)bproject| Subproject is implemented
Subproject       <                        >               .I
terminated            ,|
Randomly sampled post-project reviews conducted by PMO. World Bank
may request or further reviews, during supervision missions, as required
87












IMAGING
Report No.:        24883   CHA
Type.     PAD



