Report No. 23642
Report No: I067337 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/12/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CHINA Project ID: P067337
Project: GEF Energy Conservation II      Task Team Leader: Robert P. Taylor
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 1, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 18, 2002     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: EASEG     Sector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan (FIL)     Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the proposed project is to expand domestic investment in
energy efficiency projects through the aggressive development of China's
nascent Energy Management Company (EMC) industry, thereby achieving
large-scale energy efficiency improvements and associated reductions in
the growth of carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants. The EMC
concept has been successfully demonstrated under Chinese conditions by
three large pilot EMCs established in 1997 and developed under the ongoing
EC/GEF/IBRD China Energy Conservation Project. Other EMCs are now
endeavoring to emerge, and interest in developing this type of business in
China is running high. To foster the broad development of an EMC industry
in China quickly will require (a) the introduction and growing
participation of China's domestic banks in the business, as the primary
source of credit, and (b) massive dissemination of the concept and
experiences achieved, supported also with practical technical assistance
and operationally-focused training for emerging new EMCs. This project
seeks to meet these requirements.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
EMC Guarantee Programs
EMC Services
The proposed project includes a TA component and a financial intermediary
component. The EMC Service Component aims to provide in-depth, practical
technical assistance to new and emerging EMCs on development of their
businesses. In a complementary EMC Loan Guarantee Program, GEF funds
will back partial credit guarantees to Chinese banks, assisting them to
provide loan financing to new emerging EMCs, so they can develop their
businesses.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical



natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
National
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
Comments: This financial intermediation project will result in major
positive impacts on the environment, in terms of improved energy
efficiency, reduced air pollution, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
No major adverse environmental issues are associated with the project.
The loan guarantee program will indirectly support hundreds of small
subprojects, which will be identified during project implementation. Few,
if any, will involve any negative environmental or safety issues.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No social hardships are anticipated as a result of the project, which will
support relatively minor industrial and commercial building energy
conservation retrofits and equipment renovation. No sub-projects will
involve physical resettlement. The project will not affect indigenous
people.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
To ensure proper management of any potential negative environmental issues
in any of the hundreds of subprojects undertaken by EMCs with domestic
loans partially guaranteed with GEF funds, it is proposed to include
requirements that loan guarantee packages from participating banks and
-2 -



EMCs include certifications from the EMCs that (i) no projects supported
by the guarantee loan will yield any negative environment impacts, or (ii)
any projects identified with any potential negative environmental impacts
will be implemented according an environmental management plan (EMP)
approved by the local Environmental Protection Bureau. The Guarantee
Company will provide the Banks and EMCs with a list of potentially adverse
environmental impacts to consider, for use in this certification
procedure. A negative list which would include the "type of facilities or
activities" this project would not support may be developed to provide
guidance to EMCs. The Bank will periodically audit a representative sample
of sub-projects to ensure that appropriate review procedures are in place
and that EMP have been developed where necessary. The guidelines /
procedures to be followed during project implementation would be
documented in the Project Implementation Manual.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Project design has included consultations with a wide range of
stakeholders, in the central and local government, research, NGO,
industrial, commercial and financial sectors. Through the efforts of the
SETC's PMO, the emerging EMC Service Group, and the marketing staff of the
proposed Guarantee Program, major efforts are being initiated to increase
awareness about EMCs in general, and opportunities for project support in
particular. Access to initial technical assistance will be open to any
interested parties. Access to more advanced training and technical
assistance also will be open and transparent, but will require a specified
level of corporate development.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
-3-



Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Robert P. Taylor
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Jitendra J. Shah/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Chaohua Zhang/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Glenn S. Morgan 2/7/02
Sector Manager/Director:         M. Farhandi     1/4/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



