Environmental Reviews and Impacts
for the
China GEF Energy Conservation Project, Phase II
Project Management Office
SETC/WB/GEF EMC China Energy Conservation Project
April, 2002
FILE COPr



Contents
1.  Introduction .............................................                     1
2.  Environmental Benefits from the Project .............................................  6
3.  Procedures for Environmental Review and Clearances .............................................   8
Annexes:
Annex A:   Relevant Laws, Regulations and Standards for Reference (on file) .14
Annex B:   List of Enterprises not Eligible for 15EMC Loan Guarantee Program Support
(Negative List) .15
Annex C:   Environmental Review Checklist for Proposed Subprojects .16
Annex D:    Typical EMC Project Lines and Related Environmental Issues .18



1.    Introduction
Overview: China State's Economic and Trade Commission (SETC) and its Project Management
Office (PMO) has developed a system for assessing and reporting on potential and actual
environmental impacts resulting from investments supported under the EMC Loan Guarantee
Program under the China Energy Conservation Phase II Project, supported by the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) through the World Bank  As energy efficiency projects, the
subprojects will focus on technical renovations in existing enterprises.  The subprojects
supported by the Loan Guarantee Program will have major positive environmental benefits, as all
subprojects will be projects aimed to improve energy efficiency. (To qualify for support under
the Loan Guarantee Program, over one-half of the financial benefits of the project must be
derived from reductions in host enterprise energy use.) In addition to reducing greenhouse gas
emissions, many of these subprojects also will reduce use of other raw materials, and reduce
various emissions and waste. In a few cases, however, there may be a potential for some
negative environmental side effects, such as the generation of other wastes or increases in certain
other emissions. Therefore, some project proposals may needed to be reviewed in details to
ensure that any potential negative environmental impacts are properly mitigated.
All subprojects that apply for financial support from the EMC Loan Guarantee Program must
meet all local environmental regulations. Should any potential negative environmental impacts
be determined, proper certifications and clearances of mitigation plans must be obtained,
according to national and local regulations.
Loan guarantee subproject proposals will be prepared throughout the period of project
implementation, and hence are not known prior to project implementation. Therefore, the PMO
has established a procedure for screening the projects for any potentially adverse environmental
impacts, followed by further review and clearance of mitigation plans for any projects where
potential negative impacts have been identified. This procedure is described in the subsequent
sections (especially Section 3). It is necessary to disseminate key screening criteria to the new
and potential energy management companies (EMCs) who will be applying for support from the
Guarantee Program before the project launch, so that EMCs understand the environmental
guidelines and give due consideration to these concerns when discussing potential renovations
with their host enterprise customers.
Summary of Experiencesfrom the Phase I Project. Phase I of the China Energy Conservation
Project included support for the development of energy conservation subprojects by three major
new EMCs. A large amount of data has been collected about these projects, and many of the
subprojects in Phase II are expected to be similar to these Phase I projects. The types of EMC
projects likely to be conducted under Phase 2, types of enterprises, and major environmental
impacts.
1



The results of the demonstration EMCs in Beijing, Liaoning and Shandong supported under the
first phase of the China Energy Conservation Project have been very closely monitored from the
beginning. The World Bank and SETC have conducted in-depth, formal reviews together with
the three EMCs at least twice per year since the EMCs were founded in 1997, as part of the
project supervision process. The reviews include evaluation of each EMC's project portfolio,
financial results, energy savings and carbon reduction results, management and institutional
building efforts, project procurement, business plans for the future, and outstanding issues and
options for their resolution. Findings are reported in PMO and EMC biannual reports, and the
biannual Bank project supervision mission reports. A major Project Mid-term Review was
conducted by the Bank, SETC and Ministry of Finance (MOF) in November 2000, in accordance
with original plans, and the mid-term review Aide Memoire report is available in the project file.
The PMO commissioned an outside, independent review of the status and work of the three EMC
in 2000, which was completed by the China Energy Conservation Investment Corporation's-
consulting department, and used as an input for the project mid-term review. GEF Secretariat
staff also conducted independent site investigations of this project in 2000, and this and other
information was utilized by the Secretariat's consultants in their preparation of a 2000/2001
review of the results of GEF-supported projects involving ESCOs.
Overall progress has been quite satisfactory, with each of the three pilot EMCs developing their
respective businesses. Given that their business is entirely new in the Chinese market, the
progress of the three EMCs has been exceptionally good by international standards. As of March
2002, the three EMCs have entered into 208 energy performance contracts with aggregate
investment of US$45.2 million (RMB 374 million). As of March 2002, EMC investments
delivering an aggregate energy savings of about 750 thousand tons of coal equivalent (tce) and
associated carbon dioxide emission reductions of about 400 thousand tons of carbon (t-c). The
three pilot EMCs plan to enter into some 83 new performance contracts in 2002 with a total
estimated investment of RMB 214 million ($25.8 million).
Initial business experiences among the three EMCs, allowed each EMC to test a range of
technologies and applications and identify markets to replicate successful project lines. While all
three EMCs continue to offer a number of similar project lines, their project portfolios and
markets have begun to develop along distinctive paths based on differences among each of the
EMCs' service territories and company expertise: Beijing, which has a lighter industrial base,
has focused more on heating and cooling systems in hotels and office and residential buildings
(electric heaters, heat pumps); Liaoning has a high concentration of industry, particularly
iron/steel and chemical plants, and has found boiler and kiln/furnace renovations to offer high
marketability; Shandong has been able to replicate motor system improvements in a diverse
range of host enterprises and found a few large, creditworthy enterprises in which to develop a
pipeline of different technical renovations. While these individual EMC markets have shown
2



their differences,. the collective market of these three EMCs can be viewed to be more
representative of the larger Chinese market.
Since the companies began, the three EMCs have received World Bank/PMO approval for about
214 performance contracts in about 14 different technical project lines. Key product lines
supported have included boiler renovations (layered combustion systems, boiler replacements,
FBC), kilns/furnaces (cement and ceramic kilns, electric arc furnaces, glass furnaces), waste heat
(waste heat recovery, ground source heat pumps, condense water recovery, fuel switching),
cogeneration, steam hammer renovations, motor drive systems, power supply (electrical
distribution systems, transformers), automatic control systems and lighting systems (CFLs,
ballasts). A distribution of the total EMC investments by technical project line is shown in Chart
1.
Buildings ery*/jl                                   Boilers
290/o
Recovery of
waste
Steam pipe
network
Steamlair
hammer
/ \    A  \ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ','>   Motor
system
I4Ins and       /    \              \   \' 2>             Lighting and
furnaces                                                 power
diqtrib.itinn
Figure 1: EMC Project Line Breakdown
In terms of host enterprises, industrial projects clearly have been the largest market for the three
EMCs and will likely continue to be a major market for new EMC projects. Within the industrial
sector, major subsectors have included iron and steel, chemical, rubber, and textile, although
many of the technical renovations (e.g., kilns, boilers, motors) are not industry specific. The
three EMCs have also found a strong market for energy efficiency projects with utilities (power,
heat and water) and, given their much stronger financial positions, have developed project lines
for their operations. Each of the pilot EMCs has also sought to balance their portfolios with
some non-industrial projects, such as heating and cooling renovations in government/commercial
3



buildings, lighting projects in hotels/tourist resorts, and projects in shopping centers, hospitals,
and farms. Chart 2 contains a full breakdown of EMC customers.
Hotelsl
Residenfial R o
Bldg
Office/Comm  4%   /
Bldga       Other
5% >L    1I2%
Ublio es
16%
ndusty
Figure 2: EMC Host Enterprises
While project lines have not changed vastly from initial plans, each EMC has found elements of
competition from equipment suppliers as project lines are developed and actively marketed.
Once newer technologies have been demonstrated and simpler renovations implemented, the
ability for the EMCs to market these project lines while requiring high returns has steadily
diminished over time. Thus a key aspect of the EMC business has been to maintain a step ahead
of the market and build upon simpler renovations to improve a project line's business life. As the
larger EMC industry develops in the future, it is certain that the market will continue to evolve
and, as competition increases, EMC projects will grow in their levels of sophistication and
diversity.
Typical Sub-Project Environmental Benefits: As previously noted, the Phase II Project will
generally support technical renovations for energy efficiency. As such, the investment portfolio
supported under the EMC Loan Guarantee Program will have substantially more positive
environmental impacts than negative impacts. These positive benefits will primarily consist of
energy and fuel savings and carbon emission reductions. (As noted previous, as of March 2002,
the Phase 1 Project has delivered an aggregate energy savings of about 750 thousand tons of coal
equivalent (tce) and associated carbon dioxide emission reductions of about 400 thousand tons of
carbon (t-c) over its four years.) These projects have also significantly reduced other emissions
and particulates (e.g., SOx, NOx, TSP, etc.), reduced water consumption, lowered other plant
emissions (flue gas), decreased solid waste disposal (e.g., improved combustion of coal), reduced
raw material inputs, and decreased other wastes.
4



Typical Possible Sub-Project Environmental Concerns: Generally, renovations of technical
systems as planned for support under the Phase II Project do not have significant environmental
issues. However, there are some types of energy conservation investments that may raise
environmental concerns which should be considered. Table 1 below provides a few examples of
the types of potential negative environmental impacts which may arise in energy conservation
projects, and some possible measures which may be adopted to mitigate these impacts, based on
experience gained in the Phase I Project. These represent some of the typical environmental
issues that would be reviewed under the Phase 2 Project.
Table 1. Typical Possible Subproject Environmental Concerns
Type of Subproject      Some Potential Negative  Some Possible Mitigation
Environmental Impacts   Measures
1. Circulating fluidized  (1) Increasing TSP     (1) Equipping with proper
bed (CFB) boiler          emission                type and size dust
subprojects           (2) Increased fly ash       catcher, to meet the
wastes requiring        emission standard
disposal            (2) Development of a fly-
ash brick production
line, or delivery to
cement plants to
produce cement
2. Industry kiln and     Probable NO, emission   (1) Inproving the control
furnace combustion    increase, due to           system to control
system or thermal     temperature increases in    furnace temperature, to
insulation renovation  the furnace chamber        ensure NO, emissions
remain below emission
standard levels.
(2) Addition of filtering
equipment, if
necessary.
3. Shallow geothermal   Possible fall in local   Re-injection of ground
water sourcing for heat  groundwater levels.   water from closed loop
pump air conditioning                          systems (allowing no
systems                                        contamination), through
construction of re-injection
wells to match extraction
well capacity.
4. Renovation of old     Possible pollution due to  Adoption of measure to
cooling system which  the leakage of CFC during  prevent the leakage of
use CFCs as           construction             CFCs during construction.
refrigerants.
5



2.    Environmental Benefits from the Project
The objective of the subprojects of both the three pilot EMCs in Phase I and the new EMCs in
Phase II of WB/GEF China Energy Conservation Project are to improve energy efficiency and
reduce pollution and greenhouse gas emission. The experience of the three pilot EMCs in Phase I
to date proves that the said objective can be achieved.
The environmental benefits derived from energy savings have been carefully tracked by the
PMO during the Phase I Project. A Contract Signature Notification (CSN) sheet is required for
all projects financed under Phase I by any of the EMCs, and the CSNs are reported to both the
PMO and the World Bank. These sheets provide data on the energy savings, by fuel type,
expected under the project, and the number of years of energy savings expected from the
equipment installed.  The data is considered quite accurate, as payment on the energy
performance contracts executed between the EMCs and their host enterprises is dependent upon
the energy savings achieved.
Based on Chinese existing energy conservation potential and the practice of the three pilot
EMCs, possible product lines for EMCs can be included in following 8 aspects: 1) industrial
boiler renovation; 2) steam pipe net renovation; 3) industrial kiln and furnace renovation; 4)
steam hammer renovation; 5) building energy conservation renovation; 6) recovery of industrial
waste energy; 7) motor system renovation; and 8) lighting and power distribution system
renovation. The following types of environmental benefits can be achieved by implementing
these subprojects:
(1) Reduction of greenhouse gas emission:
The primary greenhouse emission is CO2 deriving from burning of coal and oil.
The above project lines 1)-5) result in reductions in the direct burning of coal
and/or oil, resulting in high CO2 emission reduction effects per unit investment.
Recovery of waste energy enables use of the previously wasted energy to partially
substitute for fuel consumption, also yielding a good CO2 emission reduction
benefit. Savings of electrical energy, e.g., through motor system, lighting and
power distribution system renovation, yields reductions in fossil fuel used to
generate electricity (accounting for some 80% of China's electricity production),
and associated CO2 emission reduction. The reduction of carbon dioxide per unit of
investment in electricity conservation projects, however, is somewhat less than the
other types of projects, based on the experience to date.
(2) Local environmental benefits:
Besides large-scale emission of C02, burning of coal and oil may generate other air
pollutant (such as S02, NOx, and TSP), as well as wastewater pollution, which



bring negative impacts on the local environment. The energy efficiency subprojects
of the EMCs have substantial local environmental benefit, by reducing air and water
pollution from the burning of fossil fuels, especially projects involving renovation
of boilers, steam pipe networks renovations, steam hammers replacement, and
recovery of waste heat.   Subprojects which yield some, but less, local
environmental benefit include most kiln and furnace renovations, and electricity
conservation subprojects, such as renovation of motor and lighting systems.
(3) Natural resource conservation benefits:
Of the 8 project lines, the majority involve coal savings, while the minority save
petroleum in cooling system, kiln and furnace, and building renovations. Water
conservation is important in some subprojects, such as renovations of boilers, of
steam pipe networks, of steam/air hammers, of kilns and furnaces, and of buildings. -
(4) Other benefits:
Other, additional environmental benefits exists in some specific cases, depending
upon the technology and local applications.
An example of the types and nature of the environmental benefits of a typical EMC
energy efficiency subproject is provided below:
One of the, pilot EMCs has replaced 4 old chain boilers (30t/h) and 1 oil-
burned boiler (65t/h) with 2 CFB boilers (75t/h) for a host enterprise, to
realize cogeneration of heat and power. New electrostatic precipitators were
also installed in accordance with requirements stipulated by local
environmental protection authorities. Environmental benefit of this subproject
is as follows:
() 5417tc of CO2 emission are estimated to be reduced each year, with
attendant mitigation of global climate change impacts, due to direct
reductions in fuel consumption;
(2) 175t of SO2 emission are estimated to be eliminated per year due to
desulfurization of exhaust gases with CaCO3 inside boiler body. Due to
the installation of the precipitators, following benefits were also
realized: reduction of particulate concentration to 150mg/m3, reducing
TSP output by 136t per year,. This allowed the enterprise to meet
national and local TSP and S02 emission standards, and contributed to
the improvement of the local atmosphere environment;
d The heating efficiency of the new CFB boiler is comparatively high,
enabling production of an extra 23 million Kwh from steam generation,
7



consequently saving 9665 tce of energy and recycling 986,000 tons of
water annually;
( Waste fly-ash is being re-utilized as a raw material to produce brick.
3.    Procedures for Environmental Review and Clearances
All subprojects proposed by all EMCs for support from the China GEF Energy Conservation
Project Phase II Project's EMC Loan Guarantee Program must pass through the environmental
review and clearance procedure described below, and summarized in Chart 1. The purpose of
this procedure is to (i) ensure that any potential negative environmental impacts are reviewed and
mitigated as required by Chinese central and local government environmental regulations, and
(ii) ensure that subprojects are not supported in certain types of enterprises which are engaged in
certain potentially environmentally damaging businesses (see Annex C). In addition, the
procedure also requires systematic reporting of the contracted energy savings benefits (with
attendant environmental benefits) for all energy efficiency subprojects supported by the EMC
Loan Guarantee Program, for centralized compilation, analysis and reporting to the World Bank
and GEF, as described in the final section below.
As shown in Chart 1, the environmental review and clearance procedure required for all
subprojects includes the following steps and aspects:
(X Environmental Screening of Subprojects. Working together with their host enterprises,
the EMCs will screen all subprojects for which they are requesting support under the
Guarantee Program. As energy conservation projects, the project are classified in the
Chinese system as technology renovation projects. All subprojects, by definition, will
have substantial positive environmental impacts through reductions in energy use. Few, if
any, negative environmental impacts are expected in most of these technology renovation
projects, as they involve replacement of older, inefficient equipment or
renovation/modernization of backward technical processes. Often these projects also
provide other positive environmental impacts, in addition to impacts associated with
energy savings. A description of nature and certain environmental aspects of the eight
main subproject lines developed and implemented during Phase I of the project, which
also are expected to be the main types of projects supported under the Guarantee Program
of Phase II, is provided in Annex D.
In the screening process, the EMCs must (a) determine if there are any potential negative
environmental impacts associated with the proposed subproject; and (b) eliminate any
subprojects with enterprises on the "negative list" (Annex B) from further consideration.
8



Chart 1
Flow Chart for Environmental Clearance of Subprojects
EMC's screen proposed subprojects using the Environment Review Checklist,
rejecting subprojects with enterprises on the negative list, and deterrnining if
negative environment impacts exist. Negative impacts?
YES             EMC asks host enterprse
to request Local
Environmental Protection
Bureau to review proposal
mitigation plan
NO                                        _
EMC provides own certification
and proceeds with loan guarantee
application
Local EPB conducts review
and deteprmines clearance
NO ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~~N
YES
EMC and local bank submit loan guarantee application to IA with its own
certification or EPB clearance. IA ensures that proper paperwork is provided
NO
YES
'7
IA reviews and approval determined
NO                       YES
Subproject terninated  I                                Subproject is implemented
Randomly sampled post-project reviews conducted by PMO. World Bank
may request or further reviews, during supervision missions, as required
9



In its review, the EMC should assess: (i) the general situation and current environmental
status of the potential subproject; (ii) the original pollutant emission and estimated status
of the potential subproject from the processes concerned; (iii) the types and amounts of
pollution, or other negative environmental impacts, which might be caused by the
potential subproject; (iv) the types of processes and product output of the subproject
enterprise, and whether or not any of those are on the "negative list."
In undertaking its screening work, the EMC should complete an Environmental Review
Checklist for Proposed Subprojects form for each subproject.( see Annex C) Completed
forms will be required in subsequent subproject processing. The purpose of the checklist
is to remind the EMC project managers of the various generic environmental issues to
consider. In addition, the EMCs should consult various technical guidance on the types
of environmental issues common in the various subprojects, prepared by the PMO, based-
on Phase I experience, and incorporating emerging experience from Phase II, as the
project progresses (an initial summary is provided in Annex D). The EMCs will be
provided with further guidance and training on the EMC environmental screening process
(as part of training on guarantee application procedures), during project launching work
and EMC training work under the project conducted by the PMO, the Guarantee Program
Implementation Agency, and the EMC Service Association.
If there are potential negative environmental impacts identified during the screening, then
Step 2 and 3 below will be undertaken. If no potential negative environmental impacts
are determined through the screening process, than Step 2 will be skipped, and the
procedure moves on to Step 4.
) Review of Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Plans. If the screening process of
the EMCs determines that there 'are potential negative environmental impacts from a
proposed subproject, then the following procedures will be followed:
*  The EMC will require that the host enterprise complete an environmental impacts
appraisal report, assessing potential negative impacts, and proposing appropriate
mitigations measures if need.  According to Chinese regulations, the host
enterprise is responsible for completion and processing of the environmental
review and submission for approvals. The host enterprise is expected to engage a
qualified firm to complete this work in most cases. This review and report
process must follow the regular environmental protection regulation requirements
of the Government of China. Subprojects are classified according to standing
regulations, and reviewed and assessed accordingly. (Of the three major project
environmental impact categories, however, no subprojects are expected under the
"severe potential environmental impacts" category.)
10



* Following consultation with the EMC, if required, the host enterprise will submit
the environmental appraisal report to the local Environmental Protection Bureau
(EPB) with appropriate jurisdiction for the case, and request the EPB's review
and approval.
* The local EPB will examine the submitted report upon receipt, and complete its
review within the normal stipulated time limits (e.g., 60 days in cases with severe
potential negative impacts, 30 days in cases with average potential negative
impacts, and 15 days in cases with minor potential negative impacts.)
( Approval of Environmental Reviews and Mitigation Plans. In cases where potential
negative environmental impacts were determined through the initial screening, and an
environmental appraisal report was submitted to the local EPB (e.g. Step 2 was
followed), the EPB will determine if the proposed subproject (including any
environmental impact mitigation measures, as appropriate) meets all related regulations
and standards. Based on its assessment, and following any subsequent revisions in the
subproject proposal in consultation with the host enterprise, the EPB will then issue
approval documentation for the subproject to the host enterprise, or reject the project
(which it will be excluded from consideration for support under the Guarantee Program).
As per Chinese regulations, the host enterprise then assumes legal responsibilities for
ensuring that any conditions and requirements associated with the EPB approval are met,
and that operation of equipment, etc. follows stipulated requirements and that any
stipulated emissions requirements are met.
® Guarantee Processing. The EMC, together with its partner bank, provides its application
for a loan guarantee under the Guarantee Program to the Guarantee Program
Implementing Agency (IA), including, for the various subprojects, (a) the completed
Environmental Review Checklist for Proposed Subprojects and documentation on the
conclusion of the EMC's environmental screening of the subprojects, and (b) approval
documentation from the local EPB, if steps 2 and 3 above.
® The IA should ensure that the documentation required in Step 4 is in order, and then may
approve the proposal for loan guarantee support by the EMC and its partner bank, based
on commercial and other criteria.
X Contract Signature Notification Forms. MC may implement projects receiving loan
guarantee support, as processed through Steps 1-5. When an EMC signs any energy
performance contracts with host enterprises which receive support under the Guarantee
Program, it should complete a Contract Signature Notification form (similar to the forms
used in Phase 1 of the China Energy conservation Project), which provides data on the
11



investments made and energy saving expected. The EMC should submit the CSN to the
PMO, through, or copied to, the IA.
0 Monitoring and Evaluation. The PMO will complete an evaluation and monitoring
report at least once per year during the project implementation period, summarizing (a)
the findings of random-sample post-reviews of the documentation and processing of
specific EMC subprojects which have received, and measures taken to address any issues
identified, (b) analysis and evaluation of the various Environmental Review Checklists
completed for subprojects receiving Guarantee Program support, and measures taken to
address any issues identified, and (c) a full compilation and analysis of the energy
savings, and associated environmental benefits, achieved through the project to date,
based an aggregation of the subproject CSNs.
Monitoring and evaluation of the energy savings and associated environmental benefits
from the Guarantee Program will follow the same procedures developed during the China
Energy Conservation Phase I project. Data on all subprojects supported by the EMC
Loan Guarantee Program will be reported on subproject CSNs. The CSN data will be
entered into a central database by the PMO. Using the database, the PMO can then
prepare a variety of analyses on energy savings results from the Guarantee Program,
with breakdowns by types of project, regions, customer classes, time period, etc. In
addition, the database can be used to conduct analysis of n the environmental benefits of
the projects, especially concerning greenhouse gas emissions reductions, but also
concerning impacts on local pollution, especially emissions of air pollutants.
The PMO's analysis on energy savings and associated environmental benefits should be
reported at least once per year to the World Bank, and these reports will be provided also
to the GEF and used to assess the project's progress on the project's key energy savings
performance indicators.
® World Bank supervision missions will review the reports of the PMO, and conduct its
own occasional random-sample investigations and more detailed reviews of the
implementation of the above environmental review process.
Institutional Responsibilities
OD EMCs applying for loan guarantee support. EMCs need to (i) perform the screening
function, outlined above in Step 1, (ii) provide the screening documentation, and EPB
clearance documentation, if required, to the IA; (iii) provide completed CSN forms to the
PMO and IA, and (iv) cooperate with post review and evaluations of the PMO and World
Bank.
12



Local Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs) Local EPBs are responsible for (i)
review of environmental appraisal reports submitted by host enterprises, (ii) issuance of
timely clearances, requirements for revisions, or report rejections; and (iiiO enforcement
of compliance of government environmental regulations and its own rulings.
( Host Enterprises. Host enterprises are responsible for (i) providing related information
on potential subprojects with EMCs the enable EMCs to complete their environmental
screening; (ii) completion of environmental appraisals, if potential negative
environmental impacts are identified, utilizing qualified experts; (iii) submission of any
required environmental appraisal reports to local EPBs for their examination and
approval; and (iv) ensuring operation of subproject installations according to
environmental requirements established by local EPBs.
O Guarantee Implementing Agency (IA). The IA needs to (i) ensure that required
documentation is properly included in guarantee application packages, and (ii) include
environmental review procedures and guidelines units information and training on how
EMCs can apply for loan guarantees under the Guarantee Program.
d The PMO. The PMO is responsible for (i) providing information and training on the
environmental review procedures to EMCs (together with the IA); (ii) technical guidance
to EMCs on issues which EMCs should consider in their environmental screening; (iii)
monitoring of the overall environment review process, including completion of post-
reviewes of randomly selected cases, collection and analysis of Environmental Review
Checklist forms completed by EMCs, collection and analysis of CSNs and energy
savings data, and (iv) preparation of evaluation and monitoring reports at least once a
year.
The World Bank will complete necessary reviews during their biannual project supervision
missions, including post-reviews of specific cases.
13



Annex A: Relevant Laws, Regulations and Standards for Reference (on file)
1. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION LAW OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA
2. TEMPORARY MANAGEMENT MEASURES ON CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
(ISSUED BY CENTRAL GOVERNMENT)
3. LIST OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION CLASSIFICATION MANAGEMENT
FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS (TRLAL VERSION)
4. PROTECTION AND MITIGATION OF AIR POLLUTANTS OF THE PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (REVISED)
5. EMISSION STANDARD OF AIR POLLUTANTS FOR COAL-BURNING OIL-
BURNING GAS-FIRED BOILER (GB13271-2001)
6. EMISSION STANDARD OF AIR POLLUTANTS FOR THERMAL POWER PLANTS
(GB13223-1996)
7. EMISSION STANDARD OF AIR POLLUTANTS FOR INDUSTRIAL KILN AND
FURNACE (GB9078-1996)
14



Annex B - List of Enterprises not Eligible for
EMC Loan Guarantee Program Support (Negative List)
The project will not finance any subprojects which are in direct violation of the World Bank's
environmental policies. Similarly, subprojects implemented in violation of China's
environmental laws, and environmental impact assessment procedures will not be financed. In
specific, subprojects which involve the following activities will not be financed:
1. Manufacturing of asbestos
2. Nuclear energy related products
3. Manufacturing or companies using ozone-depleting substances be phased out as
per the Montreal Protocol
4. Manufacturing or companies using Persistent Organic Pollutants such as:
a. Pesticide: aldrin, chlordane, DDT, dieldrin, endrin, heptachlor, mirex, and
toxaphene
b. Industrial chemicals: hexachlorobenzene (HCBs) and polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCBs)
c. Unintended byproducts: dioxins and furans
5. Subprojects requiring extensive construction
6. Toxic waste producers
7. Poison/Insecticide facilities
8. Tobacco production, processing, or marketing
15



Annex C - Environmental Review Checklist for Proposed Subprojects
Name of Subproject:
Name of Province:
Proposed Date of Start of Work:
Technical Drawing/Specification Seen:                Comments        YES           NO
Brief Description of Subproject:
A)     Environmental Effects related to Subproject Location/Design
Type of Environmental Resource                       Predicted Effect/ mpact
Minor           Moderate      Major
Natural Habitat and Wild Life
Erosion and Silt Control
Drainage Pattern
Water Quality
Land Use and Settlement
Historical and Cultural Sites
Visual Effects and Aesthetics
B)   Environmental Effects related to Subproject Construction/Operation
Type of Environmental Resource                       Predicted Effect/Impact
Minor           Moderate      Major
Natural Vegetation and Wildfire
Land Use and Settlement
Health and Safety
Erosion and Silt Control
Noise and Dust
Hazardous Materials
C)   Environmental Effects related to Subproject Pollution
Type of Pollution                                    Predicted Effect  act
Minor           Moderate      Major
Atmospheric pollution
Noise pollution
Heat pollution
Solid pollution
Liquid wastes
Other pollution
16



D)    Specific Questions
Types and quantity of pollutants discharged ?
Will other negative impacts on the environment be
generated ?
Will the type of energy use change?
Will negative impacts on local water sources arise?
Is the host enterprise in the list of "not to be supported"?
Cleared for Approval by Project Manager                YES          NO
Name of Project Director:
Signature:                                                Date:
17



Annex D: Typical EMC Project Lines and Related Environmental Issues
All the subprojects that implemented by the pilot EMCs or to be implemented by new
EMCs are energy conservation technical renovation, which aim to improve energy efficiency,
reduce pollution and emission of GHG, S02 and TSP, and also decrease discharge of particulate
and wastewater., consequently it mitigates global climate change and improve local environment.
On the other aspect, it may bring negative impacts on environment although the expected
environmental benefits has been achieved, however, the negative impacts can be mitigated or
even eliminated by means of appropriate technical measures. Following is a description of
potential environmental benefits from the 8 project lines:
1) Industrial boiler renovation
In order to differentiate it from large power generation boiler, boiler with output under
65t/h is regarded as industrial boiler, which is mainly used to supply steam for industrial
production and heating for buildings. There are more than 500 thousand industrial boilers-
in China, with total 1.26 million tons of steam output. In various types of industrial
boilers, clockwise chain boilers are of over 60%, and over 70% such kind boiler is used
to supply steam, therefore, the clockwise chain boiler becomes main product needed to be
conducted energy conservation renovation in industrial boiler.
*   Layer-by-layer coal feeding device
Different sizes of coal are mixed up and burned in chamber. It prevents air from
blowing into the chamber, which influences combustion efficiency. The gravity
sieve will allocate coal based on coal size - coal powder is in lower layer while
coal block is in upper layer in the chamber. This will help to improve combustion
efficiency and reduce carbon contained in slag, so that it will achieve 8-20 %
energy savings and also mitigate C02, SO2 and TSP emissions. The worse condition
of boiler it is before renovation, the better result it will be obtained. This renovation
has less investment and quick recovery of the investment.
*    Combustion system renovation
As for a few of oil-based boiler, it is mainly to replace backward and out-of-date
burner with new one. As for the clockwise chain boiler, besides upper layer
combustion in the furnace, it will inject appropriate pulverized coal into boiler at
appropriate position from furnace entry. In this case, it will form a floating
combustion. It may achieve 10-15 % energy savings and relevant environmental
benefits. But it will control the quantity of pulverized coal, speed and distance of
coal injection. Otherwise, it will increase thickness of smoke discharged, which
would bring negative energy savings and environmental benefits.
*   Boiler arch renovation
The front and back arch of some boiler does not appropriately match well, while
boiler arch and coal quality sometimes does not match well either, which may
influence combustion condition of boiler. According to real situation, to
appropriately change the shape and position of boiler arch may improve combustion
condition. Although this phenomenon does not exist in all of boilers, there is still a
18



lot of boilers need renovation. Since it could get coal conservation and CO2, SO2
and TSP emission reductions, it not only benefits for mitigating global climate
changing, but also for local environment improvement.
Boiler auxiliary equipment renovation
Air blower and air draft fan are the main auxiliary equipments for coal-based boiler.
The operation status of these equipments has close relation with boiler's efficiency.
It will keep boiler operating at a best combustion condition by using ASD
technology to regulate air quantity according to combustion demands, which may
save coal and power used by fans, moreover it also reduce CO2, SO2 and TSP
emission. This renovation gets win-win benefits for both global climate change and
local environment.
Substitute other layered combustion boilers with CFB, or transform certain types of
layered combustion boilers into CFB
As pulverized coal of CFB is circulating fluidized combustion inside chamber, the
thermal efficiency of CFB is 15-20 % point higher than that of layered combustion
boiler. It is definitely to save a great quantity of coal and reduce 20 % CO2 emission
more than the layered combustion boiler, if it is replaced the layered boiler with
CFB. It will benefit for global climate warming. Because the desulphurization is
occurred inside chamber with technology of CFB, it can reduce more SO2 emission.
Since pulverized coal is mixed up with lime combusted inside chamber, it will
increase quantity of TSP emission. Therefore it will be equipped with proper size
precipitator to reach standard TSP emission for CFB.
Control system renovation
Control system of industrial boiler is divided into two categories. One is to maintain
boiler running at a better condition according to requirements of boiler load to
automatically regulate quantity of coal, water and air, which results in a positive
environmental benefit. To alter semi-automatic control into automatic control
system, it will achieve about 10 % energy savings for the boiler with great
variations in load. And also it will obtain environmental benefits correspondently.
The other kind of renovation is that it regulates operation parameters of boiler under
the condition of maintaining a appropriate room temperature to reach the objective
of convenience, energy conservation and environmental protection. If it realizes
automatic control for these boilers, it will enable boiler to save over 20% coal and
get relevant reduction benefits for CO2, SO2 and TSP emission.
Generally, after boiler renovation is implemented by means of all the said
technologies, it will obtain a lot benefits in greatly reduction of CO2 SO2, TSP
emission, mitigation of global climate warming, and waste water and slag
discharge, hence, it will be beneficial for local environment improvement.
On the other hand, negative environmental impacts from the subproject are caused
by CFB application for increase of TSP and pulverized coal generated by
19



desulphurization. However, appropriate precipitator can be installed to meet TSP
discharge standard while pulverized coal can be used for brick production.
2) Steam pipe network renovation
There are three tasks to be carried out for steam pipe network renovation: 1) to recover
high temperature condense water; 2) to solve the steam trap leakage problem of condense
water separator; 3) to deal with heat insulation for pipe and reduce thermal loss. The first
and second items share about 90 % of total energy loss, while the rest 10 % results from
poor pipe heat insulation and bolw-by.
*   Condense water recovery
There is about 70 % condense water generated by steam pipe network thrown away,
while the rest 30 % is recovered through reducing temperature of condense water
due to gas erosion of pump. However, now the technology and equipment capable-
of removing gas erosion and recovering high temperature condense water can
recover 200°C condense water together with the secondary steam, and then it will
be input into boiler or deoxidation device for re-use. This method can reduce 15-30
% coal use for boiler, and also save a great deal of soft water. It recovers the
investment less than one year.
*   Avoid loss of steam trap leakage
It will avoid steam leakage by replacement of scattered trap with centralized one.
Aimed at current status of steam trap in China, this measure may reduce about 30 %
of total steam use for system. It may directly save coal use of boiler and soft water.
The investment in this measure can be recovered less than a half year.
*   Pipeline heat insulation and solving loss of steam leakage
To use high quality heat insulation materials for network and strengthen
maintaining pipeline that can reduce about 10 % thermal loss.
These three items renovations of steam pipeline network can directly result in the coal
saving and soft water of coal-based boiler. This will greatly reduce CO2 emission, and
benefit to mitigation of global climate changing. It can also reduce SO2, TSP, waste water
and slag discharge and improve local environment. Implementation of this subproject has
no negative impacts on environment.
3) Motor driving system renovation
This project line is to use appropriate type of ASD device to regulate speed of fan, pump
and other motor driving system so that can meet the demand of load variation. The
frequency conversion technology and frequency converter are the best technology in
different motor speed adjustment technologies. It can obtain better effects by using the
controlled silicon voltage adjustment to regulate motor speed. Although the cost of
manufacture of the equipment is rather high, the scope of application is still wide. With
the development of power and electronic technology, the cost of frequency converter will
20



be gradually reduced, therefore the application will be further expanded. Since it saves
power for this subproject, the energy savings will be varied by changes in load and
degree of changes between 20-40 %. The investment will be recovered in 2-3 years.
The thermal power dominates a leading position in China. The coal accounts for 75 % of
total fuel for thermal power. Therefore the calculation of environmental benefits of
subproject will be converted into the coal savings, that is, it can correspondently reduce
CO2, SO2, and TSP emission. It can mitigate global climate changing and improve local
environment.
When it chooses speed adjustment equipment, it will make sure that the harmonic
interference will meet the national standard of GB/T14549-93-Public Power Network
Harmonic of Power Energy Quality.
4) Lighting and power distribution system renovation
* Lighting renovation is to replace the incandescent lamp with the energy conservation
one and substitute inductive ballast with electronic ballast, which results in power
conservation.
* Distribution system renovation
This technology can be implemented in power supply sector and power use sector. It
mainly consists of following components:
(a) Upgrade for distribution voltage
It reduces step-down for power supply from two times to one time, which may
reduce transformer and line loss.
(b) Shorten distance of power supply
It moves transformer nearer to load, which results in increasing high voltage
distribution distance and shortening low voltage distribution distance, therefore
line loss is reduced.
(c) Power factor compensation
This compensation is divided into concentrated and on-site ways, which are to
select appropriate capacity of compensation equipment to compensate powerless
factor and reduce line loss.
(d) Transformer upgrade
It replaces out-of-date larger capacity transformer with reasonable capacity
transformer. It will reduce loss of transformer itself, and enable transformer to
realize economical operation.
The effect of this project line is to save power energy. Because coal-based power
generation plays significant role in China, power saved is just directly to save
coal. This will reflect a certain benefits of the global and local environment.
Implementation of this project line has no negative impacts on environment.
21



5) Industrial furnace and kiln renovation
Industrial kiln and furnace renovation consists of fuel renovation, combustion system
renovation, furnace and kiln structure renovation, furnace and kiln body renovation, heat
insulation of furnace body renovation, control system renovation, and replacement of
primitive small furnace and kiln with large advanced one.
*  Heat source renovation
The working frequency power source of power-fuelled furnace and kiln will be changed
into lower frequency one. It will change AC into DC, and renovate the short distant
power network. These options are used to reduce power consumption. For saving fuel, it
can replace oil-based furnace with gas- or power-based one.
* Combustion system renovation
Under this technology, it is to use new type of energy saving burner to substitute
backward and old one. It generally achieves a good energy saving and environmental
benefits.
* Furnace and kiln structure renovation
The renovation of furnace and kiln structure varies from industrial sectors and technical
process to industrial sectors and technical process. With scientific and technical
development, the structure of these furnaces and kilns in different sectors will also in the
process of progress. The structure of renovation will achieve energy saving and
environment benefits. At the same time, it can improve products quality and production,
esp. in replacing small furnace and kiln with larger advanced one, which shows a
remarkable effect.
* Furnace and kiln body heat insulation renovation
Most of various industrial furnace and kiln runs in the condition over 1000°C. The status
of heat insulation has a close relation with energy use of them. If it uses new heat
insulation technology and materials to improve heat preservation condition of the furnace
and kiln, it can directly reduce fuel consumption and improve environment.
* Control system renovation
It will achieve a better benefit for energy saving and environment, if it is to change
manual-control or semi-control into automatic control. This will generally regulate fuel
feeding, heating supply, air and materials outlet. It will enable the furnace and kiln to run
at the best conditions. Coal is a major fuel used in Chinese industrial furnace and kiln,
besides oil, power and industrial discharged gas. Implementation of these subprojects can
22



save coal and oil, therefore, it reduces C02, S02, NOx and TSP emission, mitigates
global climate changing and improves local environment.
It must pay attention to controlling two negative impacts on environment when
implement this project line. One is that it will care increase in total energy consumption
when the project of using large furnace and kiln to replace the small one. It should accord
with the principle of the energy saving benefit that exceeds 50 % of total benefits. The
other is that NOx emission will be satisfied with the standard.
6) Steam hammer renovation
The energy efficiency of steam hammer is quite low less than 10 %. It can get over 80 %
energy saving with electronic-hydraulic hammer to substitute steam hammer.
Implementation of these subprojects can save coal and oil, therefore, it reduces C02,
S02, NOx and TSP emission, mitigates global climate changing and improves local-
environment.
7) Recovery of industrial waste energy
There are many types and great quantity of industrial waste energy recovery. In
generally, it can be divided into three categories: the recovery of discharged gases, high
quality waste heat recovery and low quality waste heat recovery.
* Recovery of discharged gases
The discharged gases mainly include waste gas, BF gas, BOF gas, coal gas and
gasoline volatile gas. When these gases are recovered, it is usually used as fuel for
directly burning. Therefore, it presents good environmental benefits. Among them the
tough gas is recovered to use as fuel in production, transportation and living. The
recovered BF gas and BOF gas can be used as fuel in different furnace and kiln.
Although the gasoline volatile gas is dispersedly located and in relatively low quality,
it can save resource if it is recovered. Since equipment used to recover gas is quite
simple, it is economically reasonable.
* Recovery of high quality heat
Over 500°C gases including waste heat from sintering and clinker are valuable energy
resources. And now it usually uses boiler to change waste heat into steam and power
for production and living use, and also replace primary energy - coal and oil.
* Recovery of low quality heat
The modem technology can collect heat from different cooling water, tail water of
geothermal or other low quality thermal source under 400C, and increase temperature
of the collected waste heat, and change them into hot water for heating supply and
23



living. Since energy efficiency parameter of the system reaches or exceeds 4, it is
economically feasible.
Waste energy recovery is to recover discarded energy, so it saves the same quantity of
new energy and have the best environmental benefit among all the subprojects. With
the same investment, this project line achieves more C02, S02 and TSP emission
reductions than other project lines. Therefore it should encourage EMC to carry out
more such kind of projects. It will not bring negative impacts on environment for
implementing this subproject.
8) Building energy saving renovation
The building energy saving renovation involves in many fields with wide scope. There
exists a great potential of environmental benefits.
* To improve building envelope
The energy use of residential building space heating in China is about 3 times over
that in developed countries. One of reasons is that thermal insulation building
envelope performances not well. An improvement method is to put thermal insulation
layer to clay brick outside building or inside building. It will change steel framed
single layer glass window into single or double layer glass plastic steel and aluminum
plastic window. The surface of wall in the room will coat a layer of thermal
insulation. Implementation of this project can get about 20 % energy saving and
relevant positive environmental benefits.
* Energy saving renovation of space heating source-seeing "industrial boiler energy
saving"
* New thermal sources for heating supply
(a) Ground temperature heat pump for air conditioning system
The heat source of this system is not from coal or oil, but ground temperature. It usually
uses surface underground well water as well as water from lake, river and sea. It uses
heat pump to collect heat from water. Because energy efficiency parameter of the heat
pump can reach or exceed 4 and it does not consume other energy, it has good
environmental benefits. Since this system can be used for cooling supply in the summer
and supplying hot water for living, it brings a better benefits for energy saving and
environment.
b) Space heating with regenerative electric power boiler
It will replace coal-based boiler with regenerative electric power boiler. The thermal
efficiency of electric boiler is about 20 % higher than that of coal-based boiler.
Moreover, if it chooses an appropriate regenerative device, it can enable boiler to run at
high efficiency condition. So this kind of space heating will benefit the environment.
24



c) Regenerative electric heater
Replacing coal stove with space heating greatly improve the comfortable, clean and
safety of living environment and get a better energy saving and environmental benefits,
because efficiency of electric power converting into heat is much higher than that of the
stove burning briquette coal. It will result in the coal saved, if it replaces coal-based
space heating with this method. This can reduce C02, SO2, and TSP emission as well as
slag and waste water discharged. It not only mitigates global climate changing, but also
improve local environment.
*   Heating supply system (pipeline network) energy renovation
The design and construction of cities, towns and residential districts in China are
all not completed in a single time. Most of them are expanded gradually, and so-
does heating supply system. It is natural that it produces the unbalance of heating
supply. This trend becomes seriously in some districts and units. In order to
maintain the minimum temperature of heating supply, the heating system has to
be operated at low temperature differential with great flow. This wastes a great
energy. Through adopting technical measure of installation of balance valve by
district and by block, it can not only save huge coal, but can save the circulating
water and power consumed by the water pump. It is remarkable to achieve the
global and local environmental benefits.
*   Cooling supply system energy saving renovation
The district cooling supply is mainly used in office building, hotel, shopping
center, and gymnasium. In most conditions, the cooling is supplied by cooling
machine with huge energy consumption. The measures of energy saving
renovation are included in the following:
(a) Cooling storage air conditioner system
It will add appropriate capacity of cooling device to the original conventional
air conditioner system. At same time, it will appropriately reduce the capacity
of cooling unit. In this way, it will make the cooling unit running at high
efficiency with full load. The cooling will be supplied by both the cooling
machine and cooling storage device. This can achieve the benefits of energy
saving and environment.
(b) Cooling storage air conditioner system of low temperature air supplying with
large temperature differential
It selects the coiled ice storage device with a certain cooling capacity. This
can guarantee the temperature of the cooling supplying at 1-3 'C. And then it
chooses the appropriate capacity of cooling unit. The system makes the
25



cooling storage in the night. It supplies the cooling together with ice storage
device at other time. This system can supply the air at low temperature of 5-
7°C. In this system, the cooling unit can usually be kept at high efficiency
operation with full load. The energy consumption of the system operation
reduces due to the capacity reduction of cooling auxiliary machine. This type
of air conditioner system can obtain the better environmental benefits than
that of above-mentioned.
(c) Replacement of energy intensive direct burning cooling water unit with
efficiency cooling unit
(d) Replacement of oil-burning cooling water unit with heat pump system by
using ground temperature of underground water (The system is built for the
purpose of building space heating)
After implemented the above-mentioned energy saving measure, it may
achieve the benefits of CO2 emission mitigation to a certain degree. It will
benefits to alleviate the global climate warming, and reduce SO2 and TSP
emission as well as improve the local environment.
It will prevent two kinds of negative influence from impacting on the
environment, if this project line is implemented: one is that it will refill all
fetched water into the ground in order to prevent the surface of ground from
sinking, when it is to implement the heat pump air conditioner system with
low temperature. The other is that it will adopt the sound measures to prevent
CFC leaking, when the energy saving renovation of the cooling supply system
project is to carry out.
26



