                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                               Report No: 74602 - KG




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                    OF
                  GOVERNANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                   Loan No. IDA 37570, P071063

                                             May 15, 2003


                                                TO THE

                                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                          December 19, 2012




ECSP4
ECAVP


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




FMIS    Financial Management Information System
GTAC    Governance Technical Assistance Project
HRMIS   Human Resource Management Information System
PFM     Public Financial Management
TMIS    Treasury Management Information System
TSA     Treasury Single Account




         Regional Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houérou
               Country Director:        Saroj Kumar Jha
                Sector Manager:         William Leslie Dorotinsky
              Task Team Leader:         K. Migara O. De Silva



                                    2
                               KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                     GOVERNANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 4




                                                                  3
                Kyrgyzstan, Government Technical Assistance Project

                                         P071063

                                  Loan No. IDA 37570

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER




A. SUMMARY

This paper seeks management’s approval to extend the closing date for the Governance
Technical Assistance Project (GTAC), Loan No. IDA 37570, P071063 from December
28, 2012 until December 31, 2013. This will be the third extension for a cumulative
period of five years. This time is required to finalize implementation of key project
activities and to allow for full achievement of the Project’s Development Objectives: to
improve transparency and support modernization of the Treasury.

There are no other proposed changes in the project.

B. PROJECT STATUS
Although the project is in its 9th year, it has been impacted by two primary causes: 1)
Kyrgyzstan has undergone two significant political upheavals causing complete changes
in government; and 2) As a result of the political instability, tendering documents for a
major component of the project, the acquisition and implementation of an integrated
financial management information system (FMIS), were significantly delayed.

One of the key objectives of GTAC is to support Kyrgyzstan’s transition from its current
manual method of budget formulation, execution, accounting, payment processing, and
human resource management to a commercial internationally tested automation package
which includes TMIS (Treasury Management Information System) and HRMIS (Human
Resource Management System). The TMIS package is a necessary requirement for a
fully operational Treasury Single Account (TSA) and serves as the foundation of all PFM
reforms envisioned in the Government’s PFM Strategy

As context, since the contract for the FMIS was signed, there have been five Ministers of
Finance, three Directors of the State Personnel Service, and three Directors of the Central
Treasury. Each change in leadership has triggered a period of delay while the project
was evaluated, implementation modes were questioned, and underlying objectives were
re-validated. In each case, the leadership has affirmed the project but at a cost of
delayed time.

Of the total loan amount of $7,775,000, 68% has been disbursed to date. No payments
under the FMIS contract have been made in the last 12 months as disputes arose between
the vendor and Ministry of Finance as to whether milestones had been met. There are
no audit reports due and previous audit reports have been found satisfactory by the Bank.

                                             4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES
Achievement of an operational TMIS and TSA was proposed as a prior action for a
Development Policy Operation this year and this action provided significant impetus for
implementation of the project as the status of the project has been elevated above primary
counterparts to the highest levels of leadership in the Government, including the First
Vice Prime Minister and the President’s Administration.

Until the implementation of the TMIS became the subject of the DPO, discussions
between the Central Treasury and the vendor would languish on technical disagreements
and unproductive periods between meetings with little progress taking place. This is the
main reason why the project has been a Problem at Risk with both the DO and IP ratings
of “moderately unsatisfactory? for the last 11 months. However, with the increased
attention of senior government officials, significant progress has been made and key
accomplishments have occurred.

      After many months of discussion, a Uniform Chart of Accounts, a necessary pre-
       condition to configuration of the FMIS, has been adopted by Government
       Resolution and temporary instructions on implementation have been issued.

      After long debate about the appropriate interface between the TMIS and the
       payment systems of the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan, a Protocol has been signed
       that defines the respective roles and responsibilities of the Central Treasury and
       National Bank, the controls that will be in place to provide information integrity,
       and the technical requirements for information interchange. This protocol was a
       necessary pre-condition for the configuration of the FMIS.

      The prior Director of Central Treasury commissioned an in-house IT unit to begin
       development of an FMIS that could be an alternative to the commercial off-the-
       shelf system supported by GTAC. The Bank has expressed concern about
       potential weaknesses in internal control that could result from abandoning the
       commercial system and adopting the in-house system. However, the
       Coordination Council for GTAC made a decision on December 12, 2012, to
       proceed with the commercial system and to request an extension of the project of
       the Bank. This decision was confirmed by the Minister of Finance in a letter
       requesting extension also dated December 12, 2012.

      The Ministry of Finance and its FMIS vendor have presented a detailed revised
       project schedule that lays out by week all steps necessary to finalize, implement,
       train on, and achieve operational acceptance of all three modules—TMIS,
       HRMIS, and Budget Planning—with the final step late in the fourth quarter of
       2013.

Upon resolution of the revised project schedule and operational acceptance of the three
FMIS modules, remaining payments due to the vendor under the contract will occur
during the extension period which will achieve almost full disbursement of the loan
amount.

                                            5
In summary, along with focus on successful implementation of the FMIS at the most
senior levels of government for the first time during the project, key milestones in the
project having been accomplished in recent months, and with a detailed plan on all
remaining steps necessary for final acceptance and operation laid out, extension of the
closing date of the project is warranted to meet the development policy objective.




                                             6
