Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19550
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
Rehabilitation Loan (4078-0-BUL)
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan (4157-0-BUL)
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan I (4239-0-BUL)
June 28, 1999
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 25, 1999)
Currency Unit   =   Lev (plural Leva)
Lev 1   =    US$0.0005
US$1         Leva 1,846
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1994         1995          1996           1997            1998
53.7         67.2         177.9          1,674.1         1,754.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL    - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BDZ    - National Railway Company
BNB    - Bulgaria National Bank
BTC   - Bulgarian Telecommunications Company
CAS   - Country Assistance Strategy
CBA    - Currency Board Arrangement
CIRL   - Critical Imports and Rehabilitation Loan
EU   - European Union
FESAL    - Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
IBRD   - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFI - International Financial Institution
IMF   - International Monetary Fund
LDP   - Letter of Development Policy
MPP    - Mass Privatization Program
PSB   - Public Sector Bank
RL   - Rehabilitation Loan
SAL   - Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA   -  Stand-by Arrangement
SOE   - State-Owned Enterprise
SPAL   - Social Protection Adjustment Loan
SSB   - State Savings Bank
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
BULGARIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Director: Lajos Bokros, ECSPF
Program Team Leader: Albert Martinez, ECSPF



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rehabilitation Loan (Loan no. 4078-0-BUL)
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan (Loan no. 4157-0-BUL)
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan no. 4239-0-BUL)
Contents
PREFACE ............................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................                                ii
PART 1. PROGRAM         IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................................ I
A. BACKGROUND AND PROGRAM OBJECTIVES ...................................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...................................................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE DESIGN OF THE LOANs ...........................................................5
D. SUSTA   INABILITY ...................................................................6
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................................................................7
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................................................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...................................................................8
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ...................................................................9
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...................................................................9
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................................................                       10
TABLE 1-A: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS - RL                        ..1................................................. 11
TABLE 1-B: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS - CIRL ..................................................................  12
TABLE 1-C: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS - FESAL I                        .............................................. 14
TABLE 2:     RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..................................................................  15
TABLE 3:     LENDING TIMETABLE ..................................................................       17
TABLE 4:     LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: ACTUAL ..................................................................  17
TABLE 5-A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION - RL                                 .      .        18
TABLE 5-B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION - CIRL                                .      .       23
TABLE 5-C: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION - FESAL                                .     .       31
TABLE 6:     KEY INDICATORS FOR LENDING OPERATION .................................................................. 38
TABLE 7:     STUDIES INCLUDED IN LOAN PREPARATION .................................................................. 38
TABLE 8A: PROGRAM COSTS ..................................................................              38
TABLE 8B: PROGRAM FINANCING ..................................................................          38
TABLE 9:     ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ..................................................................  39
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..................................................................  39
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ..................................... 40
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..................................................................  40
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..................................................................   41
APPENDIXES:
A. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .............................................................       42
B. MAP .............................................................                    IBRD No. 26532R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
Rehabilitation Loan (4078-0-BUL)
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan (4157-0-BUL)
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (42390-BUL)
Preface
This is the combined Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for: (i) the Rehabilitation
Loan (RL), for which Loan 4078-0-BUL in the amount of US$30 million was approved on
August 1, 1996 and made effective on October 11, 1996; (ii) the Critical Imports Rehabilitation
Loan (CIRL), for which Loan 4157-0-BUL in the amount of US$40 million was approved on
May 8, 1997 and made effective on August 12, 1997; and (iii) Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan (FESAL I), for which Loan 4239-0-BUL in the amount of US$100 million was
approved on October 30, 1997 and made effective on February 10, 1998.
The RL was closed on July 31, 1997, the CIRL on June 30, 1998, and FESAL I on April
30, 1998. All three loans were one-tranche operations, released upon effectiveness. The RL was
fully disbursed on November 1, 1996, the CIRL on August 14, 1997, and FESAL I on March 3,
1998. Cofinancing for FESAL I was provided by the Export - Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM)
for an amount in Yen equivalent to US$50 million. The agreement with JEXIM was signed on
December 18, 1998 and made effective on February 12, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Albert Martinez (ECSPF) and Marinela Dado (ECSPF), and
reviewed by Andrew Vorkink, Country Director (ECC05). Significant inputs were provided by
Lada Stoyanova (ECSPF), Lena Roussenova (ECSPE), and Nevena Alexieva (ECCBG). Nuzhat
Ahmad (ECSPF) produced and processed the report. The Borrower provided comments that are
included as Appendix 1 to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based on materials in the project files, interviews with the
project task managers, and inputs from the team preparing FESAL II. The Borrower contributed
an independent evaluation of the three projects, as contained in Appendix 1.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
Rehabilitation Loan (40780-BUL}
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan (4157-0-BUL)
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan I (4239-0-BUL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.   The Rehabilitation Loan (RL) of US$30 million and the Critical Imports Rehabilitation
Loan (CIRL) of US$40 million were quick disbursing operations to support the initial phases of
the stabilization and reform program of the Government. The RL was approved on August 1,
1996 and made effective on October 11, 1996, and the CIRL was approved on May 8, 1997 and
made effective on August 12, 1997. The Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
(FESAL I) of US$100 million to support Bulgaria's enterprise and banking sector reforms was
approved on October 30, 1997 and made effective on February 10, 1998.
Loan Objectives
ii.  The banking and foreign exchange crises that emerged in late 1995 forced Bulgaria to
come to terms with designing and implementing serious reforms. After years of tentative
attempts at reform, an emergency program of measures was launched in mid-1996 to stabilize
the economy, arrest the decline in confidence, and accelerate the process of enterprise and
banking sector reforms. At an early stage, the Bank, the IMF and other development partners
provided technical assistance to help the Government develop and implement the program. The
Government's measures included the closure of banks and the introduction of an explicit partial
deposit guarantee scheme. As part of a concerted effort by the international financial institutions
(IFIs) and other development partners, the Bank approved the RL to provide rapid financial
support. The RL was envisaged to finance the immediate costs of the program, the most
important of which was the fiscal burden of assisting workers being displaced in the enterprise
restructuring and liquidation programs.
iii. The decisiveness with which the emergency measures were introduced was not sustained.
Implementation of more fundamental reforms, especially in the enterprise sector, was incomplete
and, as a consequence, failed to secure adequate and timely financing for the program. This led
to reduced confidence in the Government's policies, which led to a sharp downturn in economic
activity. By late 1996, Bulgaria was in the midst of a full-blown economic crisis.
iv.  The social consequences of the crisis were dismal. Real wages fell by 30 percent in 1996
in the face of skyrocketing inflation. The collapse of incomes was compounded by shortages of
bread, medicine, energy, and agricultural inputs, as well as by sky-rocketing prices of basic
necessities. The difficulties faced by Bulgarian households were instrumental in bringing down
the Government, with the resignation of the Cabinet and the dissolution of Parliament. An



- iii -
interim Government was formed in February 1997. The latter was granted broad powers by the
outgoing Parliament to manage economic policy and to negotiate with the IFIs.
v.   The interim Government moved rapidly to ease the population's hardships and to prepare
for serious reformn. It alleviated the severe shortage of bread through emergency imports of
wheat and the liberalization of the wholesale price for domestic wheat, and strove to improve
conditions in other critical areas, such as energy and agricultural inputs. Most importantly, the
caretaker Government set the stage for earnest reforms by putting in place a new economic
program designed in close cooperation with the IMF and the Bank. To provide quick financing,
the Bank approved the CIRL to help finance socially important critical imports and thereby
achieve greater acceptance of the Government's economic program.
vi.  The severity of the crisis bro-aght about radical changes. Early general elections in April
1997 led to the formation of a reform-minded Government with an absolute majority in
Parliament. Shortly after the elections, the new Government affirmed its commitment to a
comprehensive program of macroeconomic stabilization and restructuring of the economy to
accelerate the process of transition to a market economy. The centerpiece of the stabilization
program was the introduction of the IMF-endorsed Currency Board Arrangement (CBA) in July
1997. In parallel with stabilization policies supported by the IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA)
agreed in April 1997, the Government restarted and accelerated reforms in the banking and
enterprise sectors. The Bank approved FESAL I on October 30, 1997 to provide fast-disbursing
funds to support the program.
Implementation Experience and Results
vii. Rehabilitation Loan. The objectives of the reforms supported by the RL were partially
achieved. While attempts were made to stem the financial and foreign exchange crises, the
measures taken (such as the closure of banks and actions in enterprise reform) did not reach the
critical level needed to restore confidence in the economy or credibility in the Government.
There were significant delays in the introduction of enterprise restructuring measures, and earlier
reform commitments did not translate into timely actions. The closure of non-viable enterprises
was held up by legal and bureaucratic procedures. Cash privatization was slow and lacked
transparency. The economic crisis deepened and led to the resignation of the Government.
However, the RL helped reduce the social impact of enterprise restructuring by providing fiscal
support for severance payments, and provided the groundwork for future reforms.
viii. Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan and Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Loan. In contrast, the reforms supported by the CIRL and the FESAL successfully achieved
their objectives. The interim Government that took office in February 1997 introduced a series
of important measures to arrest the crisis and set the stage for structural reforms. The first efforts
were concentrated on securing the wheat supplies of the country through emergency imports. To
improve the market availability of domestic supplies, the Government liberalized wholesale
domestic prices. Adjustment of administered prices of petroleum, utilities, and agricultural
inputs followed to correct the distortions created by hyperinflation. Above all, the interim
Government succeeded in designing a far-reaching economic program assisted and endorsed by
the IFIs. The program of reforms included: (i) the establishment of a CBA to anchor
expectations and reinforce financial discipline in the budget, enterprises, and banks; and (ii)



- iv -
deepening of reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors, in particular an ambitious
privatization program.
ix.  Structural Reforms. Until late 1996, privatization was extremely slow - mired in a poorly
coordinated process that attracted little interest from foreign strategic investors compounded by
the lack of political will. However, a number of large transactions were completed during 1997,
increasing privatization proceeds to the budget. In addition, the line ministries began a steady
flow of divestiture of smaller SOEs. To accelerate the pace of the privatization of large SOEs,
the Government appointed international and local privatization agents in 1997 and early 1998,
but most of the transactions were not expected to be completed until mid-1999, when the
contracts with the privatization agents are due to expire. The Government also developed a
program of divestiture of small and medium enterprises aimed at achieving a cumulative target
of 95% of small and medium enterprise assets by the end of the 1999.
x.   As part of the Government's efforts to improve financial discipline in the SOE sector, the
Government placed 64 enterprises under bankruptcy and liquidation procedures and another 71
enterprises in an Isolation Program. Enterprises under the Isolation Program accounted for about
50 percent of SOE sector losses in 1995. The program limited the access of 30 state-owned
utilities and transport enterprises (Group A) and 41 large state-owned commercial enterprises
(Group B) to bank credit, thereby forcing a fundamental restructuring of their operations with a
view to achieving financial solvency of Group A enterprises, and privatization or liquidation of
Group B enterprises. However, the application of the law on bankruptcy and insolvency,
although improved since the mid-1 990s, has been slow because of institutional weaknesses.
xi.  The stabilization and other reform measures implemented in 1996 and 1997 resulted in
significant improvements in the structure and financial condition of the banking system. Banks
reported an improvement in their liquidity position which may be attributed to several factors,
including improved awareness of risks and intensification of banking supervision. Banks have
been also been focusing on improving their loan portfolios, rather than expanding lending.
Between 1996 and 1998, nonperforming loans of the banking system fell from 47 percent to 13
percent of total loans, and risk-weighted capital to assets ratio increased from five percent to 35
percent.
xii. The privatization program for banks got off to a slow start in 1997, but has since picked up
pace. Of the seven public sector banks that remained in mid-1997, two banks have been
privatized and the process for privatizing three others is underway. For one bank (Biochim),
there are no specific plans for immediate privatization but the Bank Consolidation Company
(BCC), as the owner of Biochim, secured a management contract with a foreign consulting firm
for 12 to 18 months during which diagnostic studies of Biochim will be undertaken and a
privatization plan developed. The "Law on the Transformation of the State Savings Bank" was
approved in early 1999 and authorized the State Savings Bank (SSB) to engage in commercial
transactions under the banking law, which enables the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) to impose
restrictions on SSB's banking activities.
xiii. The basic legal and regulatory framework for banking is almost complete in terms of
coverage. Prudential banking regulations were restructured since the approval of FESAL I.
Regulations on bank licensing and large exposures were amended. A new Accountancy Law and



a Bank Accounting Chart were promulgated in January 1998, and the 1997 accounts of all banks
were required to be audited by international auditors based on IAS. Banking supervision has
been overhauled with the strengthening of the Banking Supervision Department (BSD) in the
BNB, bestowed with greater powers under the direction of a deputy governor.
xiv. While progress in structural reforms has been much more decisive since the current
Government took office in mid-1997, the pace was slower than originally planned due to overly
ambitious targets combined with weak implementation capacity. Nonetheless, the current
Government has not wavered in its resolve to complete the program of reforms and has been
addressing obstacles to the acceleration of implementation efforts.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xv. The RL's main objective was to support the initial phases of the Government's
stabilization and structural reform  program  by helping finance the costs of enterprise
restructuring and liquidation, and by strengthening the social safety net. A total of 22,000
employees received severance compensation in 1996, and the social protection programs were
improved. However, weak implementation of the stabilization and structural reform programs
did not arrest the deepening economic and financial crisis in 1996.
xvi. The CIRL aimed to support the new program of reforms under an interim Government that
took office in early 1997. The implementation of the initial phases of a new program of reforms
was generally successful. Macroeconomic stability was restored with the reduction of the budget
deficit, lowering of inflation, and stabilization of the exchange rate.  Along with the
macroeconomic success, structural reforms proceeded with the acceleration of privatization and
liquidation of SOEs, closure of failed banks, reform of the legal and regulatory framework for
banking, and strengthening of banking supervision capacity.
xvii. The objectives of FESAL I were to accelerate privatization, support banking reform, and
impose financial discipline on SOEs. Privatization agents were appointed to accelerate the sale
of large SOEs, a privatization program for the public sector banks (PSBs) was designed and
implemented, and an Isolation Program was introduced to imposed hard budget constraints on
the largest loss-making SOEs. While the original timetable for the achievement of performance
targets was, in retrospect, too ambitious given the weaknesses in institutional capacity, the
Government has nonetheless continued to move towards completing the reforms.
xviii. The reforms supported by all three loans were important building blocks for future
operations. The social protection programs supported by both the RL and CIRL enabled the
implementation of the privatization program designed under FESAL I. The structural reforms
supported by FESAL I laid the stage for future FESALs (II and III) and Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loans (ASAL I and II).
xix. The experience in the design and implementation of the reforms supported by the RL,
CIRL, and FESAL I yielded the following important lessons:
* Credibility is critical to the success of any reform program. While the there were notable
and substantive actions undertaken by the Government in 1996 to reverse the economic



- vi -
decline and arrest the financial crisis, the efforts were hesitant and incomplete, resulting in
lack of confidence in the sustainability of Government's policies. This led to a deepening of
the crisis and eventually to the fall of the Government. On the other hand, the interim and
succeeding Governments moved quickly and decisively in designing and implementing an
economic stabilization and structural reform program. The setting up of the Currency Board
Arrangement was an important instrument in establishing the credibility of Government
policies.
* Effective coordination among the IFIs and other development partners contribute to
the successful implementation of reform programs. The Bank and the IMF were
important players in the design of the reform program that addressed the crisis in 1996-97.
To support implementation of the reforms, Bulgaria received substantial technical assistance
from other development partners including EU-Phare and USAID. The privatization of large
SOEs, the sale of the PSBs, and the implementation of the Isolation Program were supported
by the development partners. The Bank played a major role in coordinating the activities of
the development partners.
* One tranche quick disbursing operations are appropriate where: (i) an agreed multi-
year program is in place to be supported by a series of lending operations; and (ii) there
is considerable uncertainty in the environment and significant institutional weaknesses
which require a constant recalibration of the program design, implementation details,
and performance targets. The conditions under which all three loans were prepared were
highly uncertain with high risks of policy reversals or incomplete implementation. One
tranche operations were appropriate under these conditions to provide financing as well as
incentives to move the reform program forward. In all three loans, a second tranche would
have been problematic. In the case of the RL, the incomplete implementation of the reform
program would have made second tranche conditionalities impossible to meet. In the case of
the CIRL and FESAL I, the timetables for achieving certain performance targets as described
in the Letters of Development Policy (LDPs) were too ambitious given institutional
weaknesses and the lack of experience in privatization of large SOEs and PSBs. This would
have made a second tranche for FESAL I problematic due to the need to make adjustments to
the timetables for performance targets as well as to the program design itself, such as
introducing amendments to the Privatization law and strengthening the bankruptcy and
liquidation framework. But in all cases, future operations were programmed to build on the
gains made as a result of past operations.
I Continuity of task management and effective internal Bank coordination are essential
to the efficiency and responsiveness of Bank operations. FESAL I was managed by five
task managers, three of them during the time when the crisis in Bulgaria became full-blown.
This resulted in confusion with the Government having to deal with different people. The
Bank reorganization in 1997 resolved many of the past coordination problems that existed
among various Bank units.






- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BULGARIA
Rehabilitation Loan (4078-0-BUL)
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan (4157-0-BUL)
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (4239-0-BUL)
Part I. Program Implementation Assessment
1.   The Rehabilitation Loan (RL) of US$30 million and the Critical Imports Rehabilitation
Loan (CIRL) of US$40 million were quick disbursing operations to support the initial phases of
the stabilization and reform program of the Government. The RL was approved on August 1,
1996 and made effective on October 11, 1996, and the CIRL was approved on May 8, 1997 and
made effective on August 12, 1997. The Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
(FESAL I) of US$100 million to support Bulgaria's enterprise and banking sector reforms was
approved on October 30, 1997 and made effective on February 10, 1998.
A.    Background and Program Objectives
2.   Rehabilitation Loan. The banking and foreign exchange crises that emerged in late 1995
forced the Government in office at that time to begin the process of designing and implementing
serious reforms. After years of indecisive attempts at reform, an emergency program of
measures was launched in mid-1996 to stabilize the economy, arrest the decline in confidence,
and accelerate the process of enterprise and banking sector reforms. At an early stage, the Bank,
the IMF and other development partners provided technical assistance to help the Governnent
develop and implement the program. The Government's efforts at dealing with the immediate
banking crisis included the closure of banks and the introduction of an explicit partial deposit
guarantee scheme. It also began a bank restructuring program consisting of: (i) limited
recapitalization of banks; (ii) restricted unsecured financing by the Bulgarian National Bank
(BNB); (iii) work-out arrangements to improve capital adequacy; and (iv) improved supervision
and accounting practices. Enterprise reforms included: (i) closure of some of the largest loss
making enterprises; (ii) restructuring of potentially viable strategic enterprises; (iii) acceleration
of privatization; and (iv) assistance for redeployment of redundant workers to alternative
productive employment.
3.   The Bank, the IMF and other development partners endeavored to help Bulgaria deal with
the crisis in 1996. For its part, the Bank approved the RL to provide rapid financial support. The
loan helped finance the immediate costs of the reforms, the most important of which was the
fiscal burden of assisting workers being displaced in the enterprise restructuring and liquidation
programs.
4.   The decisiveness with which the emergency measures were introduced proved short-lived.
Implementation of more fundamental reforms, especially in the enterprise sector, was hesitant
and incomplete and, as a consequence, failed to secure adequate and timely financing for the
program. While the IMF approved a new Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) in July 1996, policy
slippages prevented the completion of the first review of the program; hence, no further funds
were released beyond those provided at the time of IMF Board approval. This further reduced



- 2 -
confidence in the Government's policies and introduced considerable uncertainty, eventually
leading to a sharp downturn in economic activity. By late 1996, Bulgaria was in the midst of a
full-blown economic crisis as a result of a vicious cycle of galloping inflation, exchange rate
depreciation, increases in the budget deficit, growing payments on the domestic debt, increased
central bank financing, and consequently higher inflation rates. Real GDP declined by 10
percent in 1996.
5.   The social consequences of the crisis were even more dismal. Real wages fell by 30
percent in 1996 in the face of skyrocketing inflation. The collapse of incomes was compounded
by shortages of bread, medicine, energy, and agricultural inputs, and by rising prices of basic
necessities. The difficulties faced by Bulgarian households were instrumental in bringing down
the Government at that time, with the resignation of the Cabinet and dissolution of Parliament;
In the wake of month-long street protests, an interim Government was formed in February 1997
and was granted broad powers by the outgoing Parliament to manage economic policy and to
negotiate with the international financial institutions (IFIs).
6.   Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan and Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Loan. The interim Government moved rapidly to ease the population's hardships and to prepare
for serious reform. It alleviated the severe shortage of bread through emergency imports of
wheat and the liberalization of the wholesale price for domestic wheat, and strove to improve
conditions in other critical areas such as energy and agricultural inputs. Most importantly, the
caretaker Government set the stage for earnest reforms by putting in place a new economic
program designed in close cooperation with the IMF and the Bank. The core principles of the
program were macroeconomic stabilization, speedy and transparent privatization, liberalization
of prices and trade, quick reduction of SOE losses, restructured State finances and a downsized
public sector, improved incentives for business and investment, rapid restitution of farm land,
improved targeting of the social safety net, and reduced corruption.
7.   To provide quick financial support to the program, the Bank approved the CIRL to help
finance socially important critical imports. The imports were envisaged to prevent the further
deterioration of the conditions faced by Bulgarian households. The loan was deemed necessary
to ease the immediate pressures confronting Bulgarian society and help achieve greater
acceptance of the Government's economic program.
8.   The severity of the crisis brought about radical changes. Early general elections in April
1997 led to the formation of a reform-minded Government with an absolute majority in
Parliament. Shortly after the elections, the new Government affirmed its commitment to a
comprehensive program of macroeconomic stabilization and restructuring of the economy to
accelerate the process of transition to a market economy. The centerpiece of the stabilization
program was the introduction of the IMF-endorsed Currency Board Arrangement (CBA) in July
1997.' As a result, by the end of 1997, monthly inflation fell to one percent, the exchange rate
became relatively stable, foreign exchange reserves recovered sharply to US$2.5 billion, real
wages recovered by 25 percent since the beginning of 1997, and the economy began to show
signs of recovery of GDP.
I The CBA included the full convertibility of the lev, 100 percent backing of base money with foreign reserves, the elimination
of central bank financing of the budget and other debtors (except for a special liquidity fund for last resort lending to banks facing
systemic risks), and the lifting of controls on interest rates.



- 3 -
9.   The macroeconomic program paved the way for structural reforms. In parallel with
stabilization policies supported by the IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) agreed in April 1997,
the Government restarted and accelerated reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors. The
reforms built on previous measures implemented by the caretaker Government. The Bank
approved FESAL I on October 30, 1997 to provide fast-disbursing funds to support the program
of structural reforms, in particular: (i) the acceleration of privatization or liquidation of state-
owned enterprises; (ii) the imposition of loss reduction and financial discipline measures on
state-owned enterprises; and (iii) the privatization of public sector banks and the development of
a sound market-based banking system.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
10. Rehabilitation Loan. The objectives of the reforms supported by the RL were partially
achieved. While attempts were made to stem the financial and foreign exchange crisis, the
measures taken, such as the closure of banks and actions in enterprise reform, did not reach the
critical level needed to restore confidence in the economy or credibility in the Government.
There were significant delays in the introduction of enterprise restructuring, and reform
commitments did not translate into timely actions. The closure of non-viable enterprises was
held up by legal and bureaucratic procedures.  Cash privatization was slow and lacked
transparency. The economic crisis deepened and led to the resignation of the Government at that
time. However, the RL helped cushion the social impact of enterprise restructuring by providing
fiscal support for severance payments.
11. Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan and Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Loan. In contrast, the program supported by the CIRL and the FESAL I successfully achieved
its objectives. The interim Government that took office in February 1997 introduced a series of
important measures to arrest the crisis and set the stage for structural reforms. The first efforts
were concentrated on securing the wheat supplies of the country through emergency imports.
Moreover, the Government liberalized wholesale domestic prices to improve the market
availability of domestic supply. Adjustment of administered prices of petroleum, utilities, and
agricultural inputs followed to correct the distortions created by hyperinflation. Above all, the
interim Government succeeded in designing a far-reaching economic program assisted and
endorsed by IFIs. The program was supported by all political parties in the country to ensure a
degree of continuity after the new Govermnent took office. The program included: (i) the
establishment of a CBA to anchor expectations and reinforce financial discipline in the budget,
enterprises, and banks; and (ii) the deepening of reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors, in
particular an ambitious privatization program covering public sector banks and state-owned
enterprises.
12. Structural Reforms. The gains made on the macroeconomic front since the adoption of the
CBA have been accompanied by advances in broadly based structural reforms. The period
leading up to the economic crisis of late 1996 and early 1997 was characterized by an
inconsistent approach to reforms in the enterprise sector resulting from the lack of political
commitment. Meager progress in economic restructuring was a key reason for the decline of
output in 1996. Until late 1996, privatization was extremely slow - mired in a poorly
coordinated process that attracted little interest from foreign strategic investors and compounded
by the lack of political will. The worsening fiscal situation in 1996 led authorities to increase
their efforts toward privatizing large enterprises for cash. In 1997, the Government put in place a
more systematic approach to privatization which consisted of: (i) sales of large enterprises to



- 4 -
strategic investors with the assistance of privatization agents; (ii) sale of groups of large
enterprises under pool privatization; and (iii) privatization of smaller enterprises through
auctions, negotiated sales, stock exchange sales, and Mass Privatization Programs involving
voucher distribution.
13. A number of large transactions was completed during 1997, increasing privatization
proceeds to the budget, and line ministries began a steady flow of divestitures of smaller SOEs.
To pick up the pace of privatization of large SOEs, the Government appointed privatization
agents for: (i) some of the largest SOEs accounting for about 10 percent of long tenn assets with
a view to their sale to strategic investors by mid-1999; and (ii) another group of SOEs classified
into eight pools representing 10 percent of long term assets for sale to strategic investors by early
2000. Most of the transactions are expected to be completed in 1999. The program also aims to
complete by end-1999 the privatization of smaller enterprises which account for about 15 percent
of SOE long term assets. The second wave of mass privatization was launched in late 1998 to
dispose of residual shares owned by the State as well as offer majority shares in a few
enterprises. With the exception of delays in the privatization of a few SOEs which are still
expected to sold or liquidated within 1999, the Government is roughly on target as of early June
1999.
14. As part of the Government's efforts to improve financial discipline in the SOE sector, the
Government placed 64 enterprises under bankruptcy and liquidation procedures and another 71
enterprises in an Isolation Program. Enterprises under the Isolation Program accounted for about
50 percent of SOE sector losses in 1995. The program limited the access of 30 state-owned
utilities and transport enterprises (Group A) and 41 large state-owned commercial enterprises
(Group B) to bank credit, thereby forcing a fundamental restructuring of their operations with a
view to achieving financial solvency of Group A enterprises, and privatization or liquidation of
Group B enterprises. In Group A, the program led to: (a) the closure by end-1998 of the Energy
Resource Fund, which provided financial subsidies to loss-making enterprises in the energy
sector; (b) a gradual raising of district heating prices in order to phase out subsidies to district
heating companies; (c) the implementation of a restructuring plan for the State Railway
Company (BDZ); (d) the preparation of a restructuring plan for the Sofia Transport Company;
and (e) the launching of a program to close loss-making coal mines. Of the enterprises in Group
B, 30 have exited the program through privatization or liquidation and the remainder are to be
privatized or liquidated by mid-1999.
15. In addition to the Isolation Program, 64 enterprises were placed under voluntary and court
supervised liquidation procedures. This resulted in the privatization of 29 of the 64 enterprises.
For the remaining 35 companies, bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings are underway and will
be completed through the sale of shares or assets.  Notwithstanding such progress, the
application of the law on bankruptcy and insolvency, although improved since the mid-1990s,
has been slow because of institutional weaknesses.
16. The stabilization and reform measures implemented in 1996 and 1997 have resulted in
significant improvements in the structure and financial condition of the banking system. Banks
reported an improvement in their liquidity position which may be attributed to several factors,
including improved awareness of risks and intensification of banking supervision. Banks have
been focusing on improving their loan portfolios, rather than expanding lending. Between 1996
and 1998, nonperforming loans of the banking system fell from 47 percent to 13 percent of total
loans, and risk-weighted capital to assets ratio increased from five percent to 35 percent.



-5 -
17. The privatization program for banks was slower than originally envisioned in 1997.
Nevertheless, a Bank mission in 1998 assessed the revised timetables as reasonable and the
strategy more robust. Of the seven public sector banks that remained in mid-1997, two banks
have been privatized and the process for privatizing three others is underway. For one bank
(Biochim), there are no specific plans for immediate privatization but the Bank Consolidation
Company (BCC), which is the owner of all public sector banks with the exception of the State
Savings Bank, secured a management contract with a foreign consulting firm for 12 to 18 months
during which diagnostic studies of Biochim will be undertaken and a privatization plan
developed. The "Law on the Transformation of the State Savings Bank" was approved in early
1999 and authorized the State Savings Bank (SSB) to engage in all commercial transactions
under the banking law, which empowers the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) to impose
restrictions on the activities of SSB.
18. The basic legal and regulatory framework for banking is almost complete in terms of
coverage. Prudential banking regulations were restructured since the approval of the FESAL I.
Regulations on bank licensing and large exposures were amended. A new Accountancy Law and
a Bank Accounting Chart were promulgated in January 1998, and the 1997 accounts of all banks
were required to be audited by international auditors based on IAS. Banking supervision has
been overhauled with the strengthening of the Banking Supervision Department (BSD) in the
BNB, bestowed with greater powers under the direction of a deputy governor.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Design and Success of the RL, CIRL, and FESAL I
19. The preparation of the RL, CIRL, and FESAL I was done in the context of a history in
Bulgaria of lack of sustainability and poor implementation of reform prograrns. Bulgaria's
transition history has been characterized by periodic and temporarily successful stabilization that
was undone each time by the failure to follow through with structural reforms. The country's
problems were due in part to its less favorable starting position. It was saddled with an
exceptionally high external debt burden and significant distortions in the economy compared to
most other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. In addition to the usual costs of transition,
these burdens proved too much for earlier Governments which lacked the political will to
introduce and sustain fundamental reforms. The resulting economic malaise exacerbated the
political instability, shortening the average life span of Governments.  As a result,
macroeconomic and structural adjustments were never implemented in a coherent and sustained
manner. The design of Bank loans would have to recognize the risks of lending in such an
environment.
20. The banking and foreign exchange crises in late 1995 and early 1996 were met with the all
too familiar tentativeness. The authorities began in mid-I 996 with a strong stabilization effort as
well as programs for privatization, liquidation, labor redeployment, and strengthening of banking
supervision. The Bank supported these reforms with the RL, with the possibility of future
adjustment lending depending on the progress in implementation. However, implementation was
incomplete. No further funds were released under the IMF SBA of July 1996 beyond those
disbursed at IMF Board approval. The Bank could not move forward with the planned lending
since the full set of policies required for the success of the program was not introduced. The
failure to secure financial support from IFIs and the wavering pattern of reforms further eroded
the public's confidence in the ability of the Government to manage the economy.



- 6 -
21. The social toll of the crisis altered the political landscape. For the first time since the
beginning of transition in 1990, Bulgaria elected in 1997 a reform-minded Government with an
-absolute majority in Parliament. The election results reflected the fact that the public was finally
convinced of the need for a market-oriented economic program. This opened a new window of
opportunity for radical reforms in Bulgaria. The complete change in regime centered on the
CBA which bestowed credibility on the stabilization policies and the commitment to earnest
reform. The Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan provided rapid financial assistance to support
the renewed reforms. The Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan followed when
Government complied with the conditionalities for Board approval. Progress in structural
reforms has been much more decisive since the current Government took office in mid- 1997, but
the pace was slower than originally planned due to overly ambitious targets combined with weak
implementation capacity. The current Government is firm in its resolve to complete the prograrim
of reforms and has been addressing obstacles to the acceleration of implementation.
D.    Sustainability
22. The rationale for the design of each of the three loans was to support incremental steps in
the implementation of macroeconomic and structural reforms. Each operation supported
Government performance in the context of a multi-year reform program. Hence, each loan had a
letter of development policy (LDP) and a comprehensive matrix of future actions to be
undertaken by the Government following Board approval even though these actions were not
conditionalities for the respective loans. However, these actions would form the starting point
for future loans, thereby ensuring sustainability. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
April 9, 1996 had a three phase approach for Bank support: (i) technical assistance to help the
Government design a stabilization and structural reformn program; (ii) rapid but limited financial
assistance upon adoption of an acceptable program; and (iii) adjustment operations to support the
initial stage of implementation of key reforms. The RL and CIRL were part of the second phase
and FESAL I represented the third phase. Further implementation and completion of the reform
program is envisioned to be supported by programmed FESAL II and FESAL III.
23. Nevertheless, there were risks to the sustainability of structural reforms. Bulgaria had to
adhere to prompt and continued implementation of structural reforms to consolidate the gains
from stabilization measures anchored in the CBA. Any lapses in implementing the measures in
any of the reform areas would counteract earlier efforts at tackling the economy's underlying
structural problems and therefore compromise the macroeconomic gains. To address these risks,
the phased approach enabled the Bank to reward performance, maintain a dialogue with the
Government, and provide incentives for sustained progress towards completing the program.
24. Bulgaria's development partners provided funding for technical assistance to help
implement several major reforms complementing Bank operations by reducing the risk of poor
implementation. The EU and USAID provided much of the funding for the privatization of large
SOEs and PSBs, the Isolation Program, and the upgrading of bank supervision capacity. The
IMF provided extensive technical support to the BNB.
E.    Bank Performance
25. The Bank's resolve to continue its support to Bulgaria's transformation despite a history of
policy reversals was well justified. The country had successfully implemented its liberalization
and stabilization program in 1990/91 with IMF support and introduced rudimentary measures in



- 7 -
the enterprise and financial sector. Because the Government at that time appeared committed to
deepening the reforms, the Bank decided in 1992 to work closely with the authorities to develop
a far-reaching financial and enterprise sector adjustment program to be supported by a FESAL.
But because of the slow progress and the stop and go nature of policy implementation that
prevailed until early 1997, the Bank's assistance strategy focused on encouraging and assisting
the authorities in preparing the reform program. At an early stage in the preparation of the
FESAL, the Bank designed a comprehensive technical assistance (TA) program in the reform
areas, which represented the first phase of the three phase assistance strategy described earlier.
In addition to providing TA to implement the program, the Bank team mobilized other donors,
such as EU-Phare and USAID. The RL and the CIRL encouraged the adoption of key elements
of the reform program at a time when the country was engulfed in a severe crisis.
26. The preparation of the FESAL beginning in 1992 turned out to be long and arduous.
Successive Bank teams preparing the FESAL had to struggle with diverging intentions and lack
of coordination within the various Governments. At an early stage, various Bank missions
conveyed concerns to Bank management about the high risks of such an operation as the signals
regarding Government intentions and willingness to launch a dynamic reform process were
uncertain. Difficulties in project preparation were aggravated by a lack of continuity in Bank
staff. The current Government's seriousness and resolve in implementing an ambitious reform
program allowed the Bank to come to closure on the design of the FESAL and provide timely
support.
F.   Borrower Performance
27. Preparation. Borrower performance during the preparation of the economic programs
supported by the RL, CIRL, and FESAL I was mixed. The Bank and the Bulgarian authorities
worked closely in the design of a structural reform program following the 1991 SAL. Yet the
inability of the various Governments leading up to the caretaker administration in February 1997
to implement reforms delayed the preparation of the program to be supported under the FESAL.
On the other hand, the Government's full cooperation, as evidenced by the speedy preparation of
the RL (12 days) and the CIRL (3 weeks), coupled with successful negotiations by fax in both
cases, reflected quick decision-making on the Government's part. Nevertheless, preparation of
FESAL I up until the political crisis of early 1997 was hampered by a general lack of
understanding and coordination on the Government's side. The initial absence of a central
institution to coordinate activities in the reform areas, the involvement of too many government
bodies in restructuring and privatization, the weak administrative capabilities and the
reorganizations of ministries created confusion and frequent delays. The erratic process of
preparing FESAL I mirrored the country's inability until mid-1997 to achieve a breakthrough in
launching a dynamic reform process principally because of the absence of consensus, in
particular in the Government and in Parliament.
28. Implementation. The turnaround in the political and social consensus in support of a
reform-minded Govermnent elected in April 1997 reversed the country's poor track record in
policy implementation. Its stop and go efforts at reform after an initial surge in 1991 left the
country far behind other transition economies. As Bulgaria was heading towards an economic
crisis, an attempt at stabilization and reform was made in the summer of 1996. Thus, the
Governnent complied with the actions needed for Board presentation of RL. However, the
Government did not comply with some commitments on enterprise reform made in the policy
matrix for future actions, and the adjustment program unraveled in a few months as the crisis



- 8 -
deepened. As the country gained momentum towards reform in 1997, up-front conditions under
the CIRL and FESAL I were likewise met. However, the timetable for the implementation of
many of the future actions under both the CIRL and FESAL I was in retrospect too ambitious
given institutional weaknesses and lack of experience in privatization of large SOEs and PSBs.
Nonetheless, the Governmnent endeavored to accelerate structural reforms by addressing
constraints as these constraints become known. For example, the Privatization Law has been
amended several times to eliminate obstacles to the privatization process.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
29. The RL's main objective was to support the initial phases of the Government's
stabilization and structural reform  program  by helping finance the costs of enterprise
restructuring and liquidation, and strengthening the social safety net. A total of 22,000
employees received severance compensation in 1996, and the social protection programs were
improved. However, the weak implementation of the stabilization and structural reform
programs did not arrest the deepening economic and financial crisis in 1996.
30. The CIRL aimed to support the new program of reforms under an interim Government that
took office in early 1997. The implementation of the initial phases of a new program of reforms
was generally successful. Macroeconomic stability was restored with the reduction of the budget
deficit, lowering of inflation, and stabilization of the exchange rate.  Along with the
macroeconomic success, structural reforms proceeded with the acceleration of privatization and
liquidation of SOEs, closure of failed banks, reform of the legal and regulatory framework for
banking, and strengthening of banking supervision capacity.
31. The objectives of FESAL I were to accelerate privatization, support banking reform, and
impose financial discipline on SOEs. Privatization agents were appointed to accelerate the sale
of large SOEs, a privatization program for the public sector banks (PSBs) was designed and
implemented, and an Isolation Program was introduced to imposed hard budget constraints on
the largest loss-making SOEs. While the original timetable for the achievement of performance
targets was, in retrospect, too ambitious given the weaknesses in institutional capacity, the
Government has nonetheless continued to move towards completing the reforms.
H.    Future Operations
32. The reforms supported by all three loans were important building blocks for future
operations. The social protection programs supported by both the RL and CIRL enabled the
implementation of the privatization program designed under FESAL I. The structural reforms
supported by FESAL I set the stage for future FESALs (II and III) and Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loans (ASAL I and II).
I.   Key Lessons Learned
33. Credibility is critical to the success of any reform program. While the there were
notable and substantive actions undertaken by the Government in 1996 to reverse the economic
decline and arrest the financial crisis, the efforts were hesitant and incomplete, resulting in lack
of confidence in the sustainability of Government's policies. This led to a deepening of the crisis
and eventually to the fall of the Government. On the other hand, the interim and succeeding
Governments moved quickly and decisively in designing and implementing an economic



- 9 -
stabilization and structural reform program. The setting up of the Currency Board Arrangement
was an important instrument in establishing the credibility of Government policies.
34. Effective coordination among the IFIs and other development partners contribute to
the successful implementation of reform programs. The Bank and the Fund were important
players in the design of the reform program that addressed the crisis in 1996-97. To support
implementation of the reforms, Bulgaria received substantial technical assistance from other
development partners including EU-Phare and USAID. The privatization of large SOEs, the sale
of the PSBs, and the implementation of the Isolation Program were supported by the
development partners. The Bank played a major role in coordinating the activities of the
development partners.
35. One tranche quick disbursing operations are appropriate where: (i) an agreed multi-
year program is in place to be supported by a series of lending operations; and (ii) there is
considerable uncertainty in the environment and significant institutional weaknesses which
require a constant recalibration of the program design, implementation details, and
performance targets. The conditions under which all three loans were prepared were highly
uncertain with high risks of policy reversals or incomplete implementation. One tranche
operations were appropriate under these conditions to provide financing as well as incentives to
move the reform program forward. In all three loans, a second tranche would have been
problematic. In the case of the RL, the incomplete implementation of the reform program would
have made second tranche conditionalities impossible to meet. In the case of the CIRL and
FESAL I, the timetables for achieving certain performance targets as described in the Letters of
Development Policy (LDPs) were too ambitious given institutional weaknesses and the lack of
experience in privatization of large SOEs and PSBs. This would have made a second tranche for
FESAL I problematic due to the need to make adjustments to the timetables for performance
targets as well as to the program design itself, such as introducing amendments to the
Privatization Law and strengthening the bankruptcy and liquidation framework. But in all cases,
future operations were programmed to build on the gains made as a result of past operations.
36. Continuity of task management and effective internal Bank coordination are essential
to the efficiency and responsiveness of Bank operations. FESAL I was managed by five task
managers, three of them during the time when the crisis in Bulgaria became full-blown. This
resulted in confusion with the Government having to deal with different people. The Bank
reorganization in 1997 resolved many of the past coordination problems that existed among
various Bank units.



- 10-
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1-A,B,C:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:        Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:        Lending Timetable
Table 4:        Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5-A,B,C:  Key Indicators for Program Implementation
Table 6:        Key Indicators for Lending Operation
Table 7:        Studies Included in Loan Preparation
Table 8A:       Program Costs
Table 8B:       Program Financing
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table I1:       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:       Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1-A: Summary of Assessments
Rehabilitation Loan
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Neliible        Not afpicable
Macro Policies                                                       P M                5
Sector Policies                      a               5                [
Financial Objectives                 0               3                5                 5
Institutional Development           E               I                IZI                0
Physical Objectives                  5               5                5
Poverty Reduction                                    5                5 
Gender Issues                        aI             E                 a 
Other Social Objectives              53              0                                  5
Environmental Objectives            j]               5                s                 O
Public Sector Management             5               0                                  0
Private Sector Development                                           Ex 0l
Other (specify)                      5               5                5                 5
B. Project Sustamability              Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(vi)                      (vi)                       (vi)
Higl
C. Bank Performance                  Satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                       0                       [                           0
Preparation Assistance               5                       [                          5
Appraisal                            5                                                  5
Supervision                          5                       [x                          0



- 12 -
Table 1-A: Summary of Assessments RL Continued
Highly
D. Borrower Performance           Satisfactory            Satisfactory              Deficient
(/)                    (V')                     (/)
Preparation                                              P7                       El
Implementation                                                                     7 E  I
Covenant Compliance                                      I                        El
Operation (if applicable)                                 E                       El
Highly                                          Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
El             El                                 l
Note: The low ratings in the achievement of objectives, sustainability, and assessment of outcome derive
mainlyfrom the poor implementation of the reforms, leading to the deepening of the economic andfinancial
crisis and the fall of the Government at that time. However, the Bank was cognizant of these risks, but went
ahead with the RL to encourage the Government to implement reforms. The RL supported many important
measures that were undertaken by the Government, including the closure of many insolvent enterprises, the
establishment of the Mass Privatization Program, and the closure of bankrupt banks. One of the important
measures supported by the loan was the establishment of an appropriate severance pay mechanism, which at
that time was a major obstacle to enterprise closures. The succeeding interim and elected Governments were
able to build on the reforms begun by the RL, reducing the time required to design and implement the current
program. If viewed from the point of view of the RL being part of a series of loans (with the CIRL and
FESAL I) supporting the design of the current program, the ratings of the RL would be more positive.
Table 1-B: Summary of Assessments
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
(V)~~~~(.
Macro Policies                                   El              L                E 
Sector Policies                    a7                            LI
Financial Objectives                             LI              L                El
Institutional Development          0C
Physical Objectives                a             E               E                  J
Poverty Reduction                 E              E                0l
Gender Issues                                                     U               Iii



- 13 -
Table 1-B: Summary of Assessments CIRL Continued
Other Social Objectives                              [ a                                 5
Environmental Objectives              ]               0]                                 5
Public Sector Management             0]                                C]                [
Private Sector Development           0                                  1 00
Other (specify)                                                       E 5  ]              ]
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                        (1)                        (1)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                  Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      (V)                        (V)
Identification                       El                       [                           0
Preparation Assistance              [21                       I    
Appraisal                            [                                                   []
Supervision                            l                       x                          ]
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                       (/)                       (v/)
Preparation                          [                         E] 
Implementation                       0                        Fi 0
Covenant Compliance                  5                                                    5 n
Operation (if applicable)            5                                                   Fc
Highy                                               Highy
E. Assessment of Outcome             Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
V)                                s )               (/)
O]               m1               0                 a



- 14 -
Table 1-C: Summary of Assessments
FESAL I
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                       0
Sector Policies                      a                              I                 I]
Financial Objectives               [                E                I                I
Institutional Development          [                E                E                 E
Physical Objectives                                                  El
Poverty Reduction                    al             E                El
Gender Issues                                                                          - l  3
Other Social Objectives                                              El C0
Environmental Objectives            E                0l                               []
Public Sector Management            El                               El                El
Private Sector Development           0l 0l
Other (specify)                     E               (I               a                []
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                    Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                      (V)                        (V)
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                                                                        []7
Preparation Assistance                ]                      3                         0
Appraisal                           E                                                  El
Supervision                         [                                                  El



- 15 -
Table 1-C: Summary of Assessments FESAL I Continued
Highly
D. Borrower Performance            Satisfactory            Satisfactory              Deficient
(V)                     (V)                      (1)
Preparation                       [2]                     [1                       I
Implementation                    I                       [iI                      I
Covenant Compliance                E                       u                       I
Operation (if applicable)                                  U                        U
Highly                                           Hgl
E. Assessment of Outcome          Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose                                  Year of      Status
approval
Preceding Operations
1. Technical Assistance  To support the Government in its implementation of its  FY 1991  Extended
Project for Economic    reform program consisting of technical assistance            to June 30,
Reform Loan No. 3384    through the financing of resident advisors and short-         1999
(US$17 million)         term consultants, studies, training and minor amounts
of equipment in the areas of private sector
development, enterprise restructuring, development of
accounting and auditing standards, bank restructuring,
strengthening of the social safety net, energy sector
strategy, institutional development to support activities
in trade reform, debt management, macroeconomic
management, statistics and the services of an
implementation advisor.
2. Structural Adjustment  To support the Government's economic reform    FY1992       Completed
Loan No. 3397           program aimed at reducing macroeconomic
(US$ 250 million)       imbalances and laying the foundations for sustained
growth and restoration of creditworthiness. Structural
adjustment measures included: (i) increased
competition and establishment of market-based
relative prices through trade policy reform,
demonopolization and liberalization of prices; (ii)
private sector development, through reform of the
regulatory/incentive framework, creation of a modern
banking system, and privatization of state owned



-16-
assets; (iii) restructuring of SOEs and energy sector
and reform of energy pricing; and, (iv) establishment
of an adequate social safety net.
Following Operations
1. Social Protection    To support the social protection reform program  FY 1999   On-going
Adjustment Loan No.     aimed at mitigating the adverse effects of transition
4409 (DEM145.7 million)  on the poor and vulnerable and at initiating the set-up
of an effective and sustainable system of income
support and poverty relief that meets the requirements
of a market economy. Areas of support included
social insurance, unemployment programs and social
assistance.
2. Agricultural Sector  To provide balance of payments support (US$75  FY 1999      On-going
Adjustment Loan No.     million equivalent) conditioned upon Bulgaria's
4499-0                  extensive program of policy reform aimed at
(US$ 75 million)        developing a competitive, market based agricultural
sector.
3. Proposed Financial and  To continue to support the Government's Financial  FY 2000  Under
Enterprise Sector       and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Program                preparation
Adjustment Loan II      (FESAP), comprising of: (i). divestiture of SOEs
under the current privatization program by mid-2000
through a transparent and competitive privatization
process or liquidation procedure; (ii) banking reform
including the privatization of public sector banks, the
establishment of a sound legal and regulatory
framework for banking, and the upgrading of banking
supervision capacity; (iii) energy sector restructuring,
including passage of an energy law that would enable
privatization of certain segments of the sector,
establishment of a regulatory commission, and
establishment of rules for an electricity market.



- 17-
Table 3: Lending Timetable
Actual Dates
Steps in Lending Cycle Rehabilitation  Critical Imports  FESAL I
Loan              Rehabilitation
Preparation               06/15/96                           02/28/96
Appraisal                 07/05/96         04/10/97          06/23/97
Negotiations              07/08/96         04/21/07          09/25/97
Letter of
Development/Sector
Policy (if applicable)
Board Presentation        08/01/96          05/8/97          10/30/97
Signing                   08/02/96         07/10/97          11/14/97
Effectiveness             10/11/96         08/12/97          02/10/98
First Tranche Release     11/30/96         08/31/97          03/31/98
(if applicable)
Midterm review (if
applicable)
Second (and Third)
Tranche Release (if
applicable)
Completion
Loan Closing              07/31/97         06/30/98          04/30/98
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Rehabilitation    Critical Imports     FESAL I
Loan           Rehabilitation
FY97               FY98              FY98
Appraisal Estimate        30                40                100
Actual                    30                40                100
Actual as % of
Estimate                 100%              100%              100%
Date of Final
Disbursement           11/30/96           08/12/97          03/31/98



- 18-
Table 5-A: Key Indicators for Program Implementation
Action Matrix
Rehabilitation Loan
OBJECTIVES                   MEASURES TAKEN                 FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                              STATUS
1. Macroeconomic Program       A program of measures to stabilize  Maintain a sustainable fiscal and  Sustainable fiscal and external positions maintained
the economy, arrest the decline in  external positions.             through 1997 and 1998.
Re-establish confidence and    confidence and accelerate the
macroeconomic stability and    process of reforms was introduced in
promote economic growth and    May 1996, after consultation with the
private sector development.    World Bank and the IMF.
a) Fiscal Policy
- Reduce budget deficit from   - Increased value added tax rate  - Enhance efficiency of tax system  - Budget deficit increased from 6.3% of GDP in 1995
5.7% of GDP in 1995 to 3. 1 %  from 18% to 22%. Doubled          and tax and customs               to 12.7% in 1996 before reducing to 2.5% in 1997.
in 1997 and limit the          excise taxes on wine and beer, and  administrations by equalizing  - Revenue collection fell in 1996 and in Ql-1997.
borrowing requirements of the  increased taxes on hard liquor and  corporate income tax rates on all
consolidated government        tobacco by 50%.                   enterprises; reducing dividend
budget.                     - Reduced non-interest real         taxes; and restricting tax
expenditures in 1996 to 26.5% of  preferences.
GDP by limiting subsidies to   - Limit non-interest expenditures in  - Non-interest expenditures were limited to 24.9 % of
SOEs while allowing for           1997 to less than 28% of GDP, by  GDP in 1996 and to 25.7 % of GDP in 1997;
increased social spending        further reducing subsidies and     subsidies were further reduced from 11. I % of GDP
especially those associated with  transfers while increasing social  in 1995 to 0.8 % in 1996 and 0.7 % in 1997; social
labor retrenchment policies       expenditures, wages and           expenditures were also reduced from 10.8 % in
maintenance and operations.        1995 and 9.1 % in 1996 to 8.5 % of GDP in 1997.
b) Pricing Policies
-  Adjust prices and tariffs in  - Doubled electricity tariffs to the  - Increase further and maintain  - Further increases and adjustments of administered
order to limit subsidies to   equivalent of US3.3 cents/Kwh      electricity tariffs at US3.5      prices to international levels continuously carried
strategic enterprises and     and increased fuel prices to reflect  cents/Kwh. Continue to adjust  out.
maintain their financial      international prices and exchange  fuel prices on a monthly basis in
viability.                    rate movements.                   line with international prices and
most recent exchange rate
movement.



- 19-
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN               FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                             STATUS
c) Monetary and Foreign
Exchange Policies
Restore confidence in the  -  Raised basic Central Bank    -  Limit growth of broad money to  -  In late September 1996 the BNB tried
domestic currency and lower  interest rate to 108% (180%      levels consistent with declining  unsuccessfully to limit money supply growth and
the rate of inflation.        annualized).                    inflation targets in the context of  restore confidence in the Lev and the banking
-  Restricted foreign exchange     market determined floating        sector by raising the base interest rate to 300 %
intervention and allowed        exchange rate. Use more          (simple annual), putting nine ailing banks under
exchange rate to depreciate by  extensively open market           conservatorship and providing support for viable
close to 100% in the last two   operations for monetary           banks. Open market operations were extensively
months.                         management.                       conducted but turned out insufficient to bring
-  Sharply lowered availability of                                   money supply under control because of lack of
refinancing to weak banks                                         foreign financing, decline in real demand for
money, induced by bank runs and lack of
confidence in the Lev, and high inflationary
expectations fueled by a huge budget fnancing
gap filled by the BNB.
- Fixed exchange rate regime introduced in mid-1997
under a currency board arrangement (CBA),
inflation reduced and confidence in the Lev and
banks restored; open market operations
discontinued prior to the CBA introduction; money
supply growth brought in line with growth of
demand for money; a limited lender of last resort
facility introduced by the CBA that has not been
used so far.



- 20 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN                FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                             STATUS
H1 State-Owned Enterprise
Reforms and Privatization
Strengthen financial discipline in
SOEs and accelerate the process
ofprivatization
a) Liquidation Process
- Eliminate 25% of the losses of  - Filed court bankruptcy petitions  - Complete bankruptcy petitions and  - Twenty-nine of the 64 enterprises have been
state-owned enterprises by    for 40 of the 64 enterprises     the liquidation of the enterprises,  privatized, the remainder are still under court
liquidating (either through   identified for closures. Trustees  pursue privatization of remaining  supervised bankruptcy and liquidation procedures.
closure or privatization) 64 of  appointed in each of the 64   assets, and assist workers in     Reform of bankruptcy and liquidation framework is
the worst performing SOEs.    enterprises.                     process of retrenchment.          being undertaken as part of FESAL II reforms.
Laid-off workers under the liquidation program
were entitled to severance pay equivalent to up to
six times their average wage (COM Resolution No.
131 of 1996). Under COM Resolution No. 100 of
April 1998 workers in enterprises in liquidation laid
off after March 1, 1998 were entitled to a lump-sum
payment of Lev I million.



- 21 -
OBJECTIVES                   MEASURES TAKEN                FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                             STATUS
b) Isolation Process
Isolate and restructure 70  - Identified key SOEs that will be  - Have new legislation governing  - The Isolation Program was legally established by
large and potentially viable  isolated through a government    isolation restructuring process    the "Law on Financial Rehabilitation of State-
state-owned enterprises in    process supervised reorganization.  approved.                       Owned Enterprises", adopted on August 9, 1996,
order to improve their     - Drafted new legislation for the                                      published in State Gazette #68/1996.
profitability through         process akin to bankruptcy     - Finalize and implement individual  - To this end, rehabilitation plans were prepared for
significant downsizing,       procedures.                      plans to downsize, eliminate non-  all companies by mid 1997. Some of the plans were
enforcement of financial   - Sharply reduced credit to         core businesses and reduce red.    not of sufficiently high standard and have not been
discipline, and management    identified enterprises.                                            fully implemented.
accountability with a view of  - Raised electricity tariffs and fuel  - Continue to adjust prices to  - Electricity prices were adjusted several times. In
eventual privatization or     prices to improve financial      maintain financial viability.      1998, the GOB reached an agreement with the IMF
restoration of financial      viability.                                                          on regular adjustments till the year 2001. This
viability.                 - Established period for isolation to                                  agreement has been complied with so far. Latest
be no more than 24 hours.                                           adjustment took place on 01/01/99. Next one is
planned for 07/01/99. District heating prices do not
ensure financial viability, and are being adjusted as
per agreed with the IMF time schedule. Regular
railway tariff increases have been implemented.
- Liquidate identified SOEs that are  - The Law on Financial Rehabilitation of State-
not turned around or privatized   Owned Enterprises was amended on December 29,
within two years.                  1998 to extend the isolation program till June 30,
1999. As per agreement with IMF, an exit strategy
for each enterprise was developed, and the GOB is
firmly committed to liquidate enterprises that have
not been privatized by then.
c) Privatization
- Accelerate the process of    - Distributed vouchers to 2.8    - Expand the privatization program  - About 65% of total state-owned LT assets as
privatization through an       million citizens.                to include SOEs accounting for    measured at end 1995 are covered by the current
expanded voucher "mass      - Scheduled first auction for       50% of all SOE assets.            Privatization Program.
privatization" program.        October 1996.                 - Enhance the mass privatization   - By April 15, 1999 two majority stakes were offered
Include 1000 companies with  - Established new Stock and        program by including majority     for privatization under the "second" mass
total capital of Lev 90 billion  Securities Exchange Commission.  private stake position in large  privatization wave.
in first wave of auctions.  - Prospectuses approved for 60      enterprises.
privatization funds that can own  - Facilitate cash privatization by  - Deferred payment schemes are available only to
up to 34% of shares in any one   extending a deferred payment       management-employee buyers.
company.                         scheme to all investors, selling
enterprise to managers and workers
on concessional terms.



- 22 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN                FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                             STATUS
d) Labor Market Program       - Issued the decree governing the   Notify and pay severance to    - As of 15 April 1999, 67,717 workers affected by
- Alleviate social costs        retrenchment program.             projected 65,000 workers affected  restructuring have been notified and received
associated with labor       - Established national and rapid   by the government program.        severance pay.
retrenchment under enterprise  response teams in National    - Use the unemployment and       - Legislative changes with the enactment of the
liquidation and isolation     Employment Service agency to     retraining fund and support from  Unemployment Protection Act (1998), better
programs by providing support  deal with layoffs and provide   other donors to provide labor     funding and management of the unemployment and
to retrain and redirect laid-off  retraining program.          market information, employment    retraining fund. No verifiable data exists as to the
workers and extend severance  - Established the program to and  counseling, retraining, and small  extent to which the workers affected by the
payments to those affected by  affect severance payments and   enterprise development skills to  government program used the services of the local
downsizing.                   magnitude of payments.           workers dislocated by the reform  unemployment offices.
program.
III. Banking Sector Reform
Reestablish the soundness of the  - Closed two banks.          - Adhere to programs outlined in  - Memoranda of Understanding signed with all
banking system through a      - Placed three banks in             Memorandum of Understanding,     recapitalized banks and with seven private banks
program of closures,             conservatorship.                 including prohibition of any new  with negative capital adequacy positions in 1996;
restructuring and improved asset  - Approved law and established  lending by banks with negative    five banks placed in conservatorship in May 1996,
position, and to strengthen the  new policies governing deposit   networth.                        followed by another nine banks in September 1996;
role of supervision and improve  guarantees.                                                        licenses of banks in conservatorship revoked in
accounting practices.                                                                               1997.
- Introduced limited program of  - Adhere to program requiring banks  - Higher capital adequacy requirements introduced
bank recapitalization.           to achieve specified capital      for 1997 (8 %), 1998 (10%) and 1999 (12%) and
- Restricted Central Bank           adequacy positions under new     met in 1997 and 1998.
refinancing credits.             accounting standards.
- Signed Memorandum of           - Prohibit any bank without 4%
Understanding with 18 banks to   capital adequacy standard to pay
be recapitalized or with negative  dividends.
net worth. Memoranda outline  - Increase staff and training of  - Intensive banking supervision department staff
targets for bank operations      supervisory agencies.            training carried out in 1997 and 1998.
including goals for loan recovery
and cost cutting measures.



- 23 -
Table 5-B: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Action Matrix
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
POLICY AREA                  MEASURES TAKEN               FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                              STATUS
L Macroeconomic Program           A program of measures to       Maintain sustainable fiscal and     Sustainable fiscal and external positions
Re-establish macroeconomic     stabilize the economy, arrest  external positions                  maintained through 1997 and 1998.
stability and restore economic  the decline in confidence and
growth.                         accelerate the process of
reforms was agreed with the
IMF in March 1997.
a) Fiscal policy
- Reduce budget deficit from                                  - Accelerate cash privatization.    - Budget deficit in 1997 reduced to 2.5 % of GDP
11% of GDP in 1996 to 3.8% in                                                                     down from 12.7 % in 1996 and 6.3% in 1995.
1997 and eliminate the need for                                                                - Some progress in cash privatization achieved;
central bank credit.                                       - Strengthen revenue collection by   - Improvement of revenue collection achieved in
establishing a large-taxpayers unit,  1997; a large tax-payers' unit established in Q2-
raising VAT threshold, and          Q4 1997; VAT raised from 18% to 22% in 1996;
increasing penalties and interest on  government penalties, fines, fees, patent and
overdue tax liabilities.            charges expressed in the legislation in nominal
terms increased in 1997 to reflect inflationary
developments; strengthened collection of
outstanding tax liabilities in 1997.
- Control non-interest expenditure by  - Non-interest expenditures were limited to 24.9 %
rationalizing programs and reducing  of GDP in 1996 and to 25.7 % of GDP in 1997;
public employment by 10 percent of  subsidies were further reduced from 11.1 % of
work force.                         GDP in 1995 to 0.8 % in 1996 and 0.7 % in 1997;
social expenditures were also reduced from
10.8%in 1995and9.1 %in 1996to8.5%of
GDP in 1997. Public sector employment reduced
by 58,000 workers in 1997.
b) Monetary & Exchange Rate
Policies
- Restore confidence in the    - Linked the determination of  - Establish a currency board        - Currency board arrangement (CBA) established
domestic currency and lower    basic Central Bank interest    arrangement.                        in mid-1997
the rate of inflation.         rate to the market yields of
TBills.
- Eliminated unsecured
refnancing to weak banks.
- Observed strict limits on the
creation of net domestic assets.



- 24 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN                FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                              STATUS
II. Enterprise Reform
Accelerate privatization and
strengthen financial discipline
in SOEs.                                                                   _
a) Privatization
- Accelerate drastically the    - Privatized 5 percent of the  - Privatize SOEs accounting for at  - By mid-1999, about 35% of total state-owned LT
privatization of SOEs to transfer  state owned assets through  least 40 percent of total SOE long  assets were privatized.
ownership, governance and       cash-based programs and       term assets (as of December 1995) by
management responsibilities to  another 18 percent through     end 1997.
private operators. This is the  voucher based programs.
overriding priority of the                                  - Offer for sale BTC.                - Offers for the sale of BTC were collected by mid-
program.                     - International privatization                                         March, 1999. Negotiations with prospective
agent appointed for the                                            buyer(s) are underway.
privatization of BTC.
b) Liquidation
- Reduce upfront 28 percent of  - Closed 30 and privatized 11  - Close or privatize by mid-1997    - Enterprises accounting for at least 32% of losses
the SOE sector losses in 1995.  out of the original list of 64  enterprises that contributed at least  in 1995 have been effectively closed or
SOEs.                          28% of SOE losses in 1995.          privatized. No information is available on the
losses of enterprises beyond the list of 64
- Effective sale by end- 1997 of at least  - Completed.
50% of the long term assets of the
closed enterprises.
c) Isolation                    - Isolated the enterprises from  - Approve and implement Financial  - Rehabilitation plans were approved for all
- Reduce upfront 50 percent of     the banking system.            Recovery Plans.                     companies by mid 1997. Some of the plans were
the SOE sector losses in 1995.  - Prepared Financial Recovery                                       not of sufficiently high standard and have not
Plans.                                                              been fully implemented. Some of the plans are
- Increased administered prices                                       being updated or redrafted.
of water, coal, heating for  - Privatize or liquidate all enterprises  - The isolation program was extended till June 30,
industries, electricity, natural  which are not utilities or mines.  1999. As per agreement with IMF, an exit
gas, liquid fuels, and                                              strategy for each enterprise has been developed,
telecommunications to cover                                         and the GOB is firmly committed to liquidate
costs.                                                             enterprises that have not been privatized by then.
- Increased prices of household  - Maintain revenues of the utilities  - Relative financial stability has been maintained
heating and transportation and  (including budgeted subsidies) to  through price and tariff adjustments (electricity,
budgeted subsidies,            cover at a minimum their operating   district heating, railways) and budget subsidies.
and financial expenses.



- 25 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN               FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                              STATUS
d) Financial Discipline
- Restore financial discipline and                            - Require utilities to suspend service to  - Utilities have adopted procedures for suspending
ensure that utilities are                                     enterprises in arrears.             service to enterprises in arrears. These
effectively collecting their                                                                      procedures are to be further discussed in the
accounts receivable.                                                                              context of FESAL II.
III. Banking Sector Reforms
Re-establish the soundness of
the banking system through a
program ofprivatization and
strengthening the role of
regulation and supervision.
a) Legal and regulatory framework
- Strengthen the legal and                                    - Amend the Law on Banks and Credit  - The new Law on Banks and the Law on the BNB
regulatory framework to                                       Activity; Enact a Law on Bank       passed in mid 1997; the Law on Banks and Credit
facilitate privatization and                                  Insolvency.                         Activities amended in May 1996 to make the
promote sound banking                                      - Amend the Commercial Code, the       establishment of conservatorship and bankruptcy
practices.                                                    Tax Law and related laws/regulations  procedures possible; it was accompanied by the
to facilitate foreign investment in the  establishment of a depositor protection scheme.
banking sector.                   - Higher capital adequacy requirements introduced
- Raise the requirement of capital     for 1997 (8 %), 1998 (10%) and 1999 (12%) and
adequacy to 12% and revise other    met in 1997 and 1998.
banking regulations to reflect    - Banking regulations have been amended to reflect
international standards.            international standards.
- Introduce international bank      - IAS are currently under implementation;
accounting standards (IAS) and    - A new Deposit Insurance Law acceptable to the
disclosure standards, and start     Bank/IMF enacted in 1998.
implementation.
- Enact a new Deposit Insurance Law
acceptable to the Bank/IMF.
b) Banking supervision
- Enhance BNB's authority and  - Signed Memorandum of         - Contract four residential international  - Residential international banking supervisors
effectiveness in enforcing the  Understanding with 18 banks   banking supervisors and form joint  contracted and joint on-site inspection teams
legal and regulatory framework.  which outlined targets for loan  on-site inspection teams.       formed in 1997-1998.
recovery and cost cutting   - Adopt a banking supervision program  - Banking supervision program acceptable to the
measures.                      acceptable to the Bank/IMF and      Bank/IMF adopted and currently under
- Placed 15 banks in             initiate its implementation.        implementation.
conservatorship and filed for
bankruptcy against these
banks.



- 26 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN               FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                              STATUS
c) Privatization of public sector
banks (PSBs)
- improve the governance of the  - Adopted a privatization    - Announce in the international media  - The Government's intention to privatize all PSBs
PSBs by changing their         strategy for BCC.              the Government's intention to       or to enter into management contracts with
ownership and/or control.    - Appointed privatization        privatize all PSBs or to enter into  reputable banks announced in 1997-1998; an
adviser to BCC.               management contracts with reputable  intensive search for strategic investors initiated.
- Started due diligence review.  banks. Initiate an intensive search
for strategic investors.
- Conclude by end-1997 four         - Two PSBs privatized in 1997 and 1998; three
transactions, of which at least two are  more PSBs are currently in a process of
privatizations.                     privatization.
IVAgricultural Sector
Liberalization
Create a competitive market-
based and export-oriented
agriculture andfood industry.  - Increased the sale price of  - Eliminate the system of controls on  - Price controls and price mark-ups cancelled as of
wheat by state entities to $160  profit margins of agricultural and  July 1, 1997 by a Decree of CoM No 269 from
per ton, and maintain the price  food products by end-May.         1997.
at least 85% of international  - Eliminate by end-May import quota  - No duty free import quotas for cereals and cereal
price CIF Sofia.               and duties on cereals and cereal    products are envisaged in the Customs Tariff for
products.                           1999.



- 27 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN               FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                              STATUS
- Started using competitive   - Eliminate all export bans by mid-  - Export bans and export taxes were abolished mid-
bidding procedures for the     1997 (no export tax to be           1997; the remaining export taxes on sunflower
emergency Government          introduced).                         and sunflower products were cancelled by CoM
purchases of wheat this spring  - Liberalize the sale prices of cereals  Decree No 169, July 31, 1998
and other cereal products by mid-  - Prices were liberalized by CoM Decree No 187 of
1997.                               August 13, 1998. As of July 1, 1999 a new Law
- Remove non-tariff barriers against   for Consumer Protection enters into force which
import and export of fertilizers by  cancels the old Law on Prices
mid-1997.                         - Only the imports of chemicals is subject to
licensing.
- Abolish any direct or indirect    - Abolished
subsidies to prices of wheat, wheat
flour, bread and other cereal products
by mid-1997.
- Eliminate import and export       - No registration and licensing are currently applied
administrative constraints.         according to CoM Decree No 271/98 on trade
policy measures, related to exports and imports
- Use open and transparent auctions for - A transparent and open procedure is applied -
the sale of Government-procured     announcements in newspapers are published.
supplies of cereals.
- Submit a new law to Parliament in  - Several measures were applied to facilitate land
July to facilitate privatization of  restitution process, all limitations on land lease
state-owned land, revamp the        were lifted (in terms of areas and duration of
regulations for leasing, titling, and  lease), decisions of the Land Commissions will
occupation rights, and revise the ban  have the legal power of notary deeds, foreign
on foreign land ownership.          legal entities registered in Bulgaria can own land.
- Offer for sale all state mills and the  - All mills are in the process of privatization, 49 of
26 state trading companies by end-  total 59 mills have been privatized covering 76 %
1997.                               of their assets, on average 55 % of the assets in
agriculture are private by end March 1999.



- 28 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN               FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                             STATUS
V Social Protection Reform
Increase effectiveness, efficiency,
transparency and sustainability
of social protection programs.
a) Social Assistance
- Improve targeting of programs  - Revised benefit coefficients to  - Establish a consolidated two-tier  - Two-tier MIGP established, based on new Social
to provide adequate protection  increase assistance to children  MIGP (utility voucher and cash  Assistance Act (1998), including energy support
to vulnerable groups at        in poor households supported  benefit).                           program and consolidated benefit - both in cash.
affordable cost.               by the minimum income                                             All benefits, payments and eligibility, is based on
guarantee program (MIGP).                                         an annually calculated Base Minimum Income
- Set up temporary utility                                          (BMI).
voucher program for poor    - Set up matching fund scheme for  - As of FY 1999 MIGP payments, except energy
households and benefit levels  MIGP.                              support program, based on 50/50 cost sharing
raised since 3/97.                                                between municipal and central government
budgets.
- Improve targeting of child        - A draft Family Support Law was submitted to
allowances, medical support         Parliament, that includes universal child benefits
programs and maternity assistance.  and means tested birth grants and other one time
- Eliminate payment of untargeted     benefits. Both testing and benefits are based on
social assistance through insurance  BMI.
funds.
- Provide sufficient quality of  - Augmented temporary       - Involve NGOs in services and      - The Social Assistance Act (1998) provides for
social care services.          resources for social care     recentralize financing for inter-  licensing NGO social services. In 1999 Regional
institutions via EU           municipal institutions.             Social Assassinate centers were created to
supplement.                                                       supervise quality of services provided at
municipal level and ensure adequate information
flows to the central government.
b) Severance Pay
- Protect workers laid-off under  - Introduced severance benefit  - Extend program to cover budgetary  - Budgetary sector employees receive severance
structural reform program.     scheme for laid-off SOE       sector employees.                   benefits as per the Law on Unemployment
workers.                                                          Security and Employment Incentives, adopted on
December 16, 1997.



- 29 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN                FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                               STATUS
c) Pensions
- Increase fiscal transparency,  - Separated pension fund from  - Establish one-month reserve fund for  - One-month reserve funds has been established
sustainability and targeting of  budget.                       PAYG pension scheme.                and is being maintained.
the pension system.          - Made legal provision for     - Comply with legal provision for    - Legal provisions have been complied with.
transparent budget subsidy for  budget subsidy to cover non-
non-insurance expenses.        insurance expenses.
- Adopted program for          - Cease financing of recreational    - Financing of recreational facilities was
improved payroll tax           facilities.                          discontinued through the establishments of a
administration and tracking of                                     commercial affiliate of NSSI. An action plan has
individual records.                                                been prepared and in being followed for the
- Changed benefit formula to                                          privatization of the affiliate's assets.
require extended contribution  - Enact new PAYG pension law to:  - A comprehensive Pension Insurance Code is
period for full pension.    (a) eliminate most early-retirement     under advanced preparation. Early drafts of the
- Introduced employee             categories                          legislation indicate compliance with the Bank
contribution.               (b) phase in later pensionable age     requirements, as defined in the Social
(c) introduce actuarially sound benefit  Protectional Adjustment Loan. Regulations
formula                              eliminating most early retirement categories were
(d) establish targets for gradual      adopted in October 1998, with an implementation
reduction of pension payroll taxes   date 01/01/2000. The target date for introduction
of the new pension system is 01/01/2000.
- Prepare legislation for voluntary,  - A draft Law on Supplementary Voluntary
private pension and funded           Pension Insurance has passed first reading in
occupational schemes.                Parliament and is awaiting second reading.
d) Unemployment                 - Reduced unemployment fund    - Further reduce payroll tax rate from  - Unemployment payroll tax is reduced to 4%
payroll tax from 7% to 5%      5% to 3%.                            (1998).2
- Extend contribution period for     - The contribution period for benefit eligibility has
- Made adequate budgetary         benefit eligibility.                been extended from 6 months of employment
allocation to clear arrears of                                     within the last 12 calendar months, to 9 months of
Government to domestic      - Change the benefit formula to reduce  employment within the last 15 calendar months.
pharmaceutical suppliers       work disincentives.               - Benefits formula has been changed to (1) take
(approximately $20 million                                         into account only the years worked. The former
equivalent) and to ensure   - Eliminate ineffective active labor    formula included an index for age as well.
adequate purchase of supplies  programs and strengthen job       - Detailed analysis of the effectiveness of active
in 1997 (at least $22 million  information services.               labor marker policies is almost complete.
equivalent).                                                       Completion of the analysis and agreement on
action plan is a SPAL second tranche condition.
2 In 1997 the unemployment payroll tax was reduced to 4.5% in accordance with SPAL Board presentation condition. As of I July the Govemment proposes to reduce it to 4.0 %.



- 30 -
OBJECTIVES                  MEASURES TAKEN               FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS                              STATUS
e) Supply of medicines                                        - Take all necessary administrative  - Necessary steps were taken to ensure regular
- Ensure adequate supplies in                                    steps to ensure that medical supplies  supply of medicines in 1997 within budgetary
1997 of medicines to hospitals                                are in fact provided to hospitals and  constraints. In 1998 amendments to the
and clinics.                                                  clinics.                            Pharmaceuticals Act were passed by Parliament
and will become effective for outpatient care in
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I__ _ _ _ _ _ _   I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Ja n u a ry   2 0 0 0 .



- 31 -
Table 5-C: Key Indicators for Program Implementation
Action Matrix
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
Objectives of Policy Measures        Measures Already taken         Indicative Plan for the Next Six                     Status
Months
I. Macroeconomic Framework
The   main  objectives  of the  Agreed macroeconomic framework in    Maintain agreed macroeconomic  The Government was able to maintain the agreed
Government's    macroeconomic   place.                               framework.                     macroeconomic framework
program    are   to    achieve
stabilization and restore economic
growth.
II. Enterprise Sector
Acceleration of Privatization   SOEs, accounting for 17.8 percent of Privatize SOEs accounting for at By March 30, 1998, only an additional 5% of SOE assets
Drastic  acceleration  of  the  total SOE  long-term  assets (as of least an additional 23 percent of were privatized. By mid-1999, about 35% (cumulative)
privatization  of   state-owned  December 1995), have been privatized.3  total SOE long-term assets (as of of total state-owned LT assets were privatized. However,
enterprises (SOEs).                                                  December 1995).                with the expiration of the privatization contracts with
privatization agents in 1999, large SOEs representing 20
percent of assets would be divested by end-1999. The
SME privatization is expected to be almost complete by
end-1999, representing an additional 15 percent of SOE
assets.
International privatization agents have  Appoint international privatization  By March 30, 1998, international privatization agents for
been appointed to privatize three large  agents for the 27 selected SOEs.  31 selected SOEs were appointed. As of April 30, 1999,
SOEs already selected or to assist in                               there were privatization agents for about 90 SOEs.
selling individual assets in cases where
shares cannot be sold. A further group
of 27 SOEs has been selected for
privatization by such agents, including
11 SOEs from the isolation program.
An international privatization agent has  Implement the strategy for the sale  Bids for 51% of BTC shares were received in March
been appointed for the privatization of of BTC shares, designed by the  1999.  Negotiations with the prospective buyer are
BTC, and a decision of the Council of privatization agent.          underway.
Ministers has been issued abolishing the
3 To be counted as privatized, at least 67 percent of the shares of an enterprise must have been transferred to private owners.



- 32 -
Objectives of Policy Measures       Measures Already taken         Indicative Plan for the Next Six                    Status
Months
25 percent limit on the sale of BTC  Offer for sale or for restitution all Portions of the residual shares were sold during the
shares.                             residual shares from the first wave  Centralized Public Auctions of January 25 - February 5,
of the Mass Privatization Program.  and March 3 - March 19, 1999.
Liquidation
Reduction of the 1995 level of 59 of the 64 SOEs slated for liquidation  Take legislative and regulatory  Amendments to the Bankruptcy Law, approved in June
SOE losses by 28 percent.       under Government Decision 480/96, measures    to  streamline  and  1998, set the limit of two months for courts to decide on
plus a further group of 86 loss-making  accelerate  the  process  of the bankruptcy petition and three months for the supreme
SOEs, have been either privatized or bankruptcy and liquidation, while  court to rule on appeals concerning such decisions.
closed.  (These enterprises employed  protecting  the  rights  of the  Enterprises accounting for at least 32% of losses in 1995
26,000 workers and accounted for 28  creditors.                     have been effectively closed or privatized.
percent of the SOE sector losses in
1995.)
Isolation Program  (41' Group B
enterprises)
Reduction of the 1995 level of The Financial Recovery Plans (FRPs) of Ensure that all SOEs selected  The Isolation Program was legally established by the
SOE losses by 50 percent.      all 41 Group B enterprises have been  under  Government    Decision  "Law  on Financial Rehabilitation  of State-Owned
approved and are under implementation, 480/96 are in the process of exiting  Enterprises", adopted on August 9, 1996. As of March
and decisions have been taken on    the  isolation  program,  either 30, 1998, seven SOEs were privatized and one liquidated.
whether these   enterprises  will be  through    liquidation    or As of April 30, 1999, 17 SOEs have been privatized and
liquidated or privatized.           privatization.                  13 are in liquidation/bankruptcy procedure.
The 1996 Law on Financial Rehabilitation of State-
Owned Enterprises was amended on December 29, 1998
to extend the isolation program till June 30, 1999. As per
agreement with IMF, an exit strategy for the remaining
11 enterprise was developed, and the GOB is firmly
committed to liquidate enterprises that have not been
privatized by then.
Isolation Program (30 Group A
enterprises)
Decisions  have  been  taken   and  To implement the cost reduction  Rehabilitation plans were approved for all companies by
Revenues of the utilities and the  implemented for all Group A enterprises measures proposed in the FRPs and  mid 1997. Some of the plans were not of sufficiently
mines    (including   budgeted  on:   (i) the level and adjustment meet the cost recovery targets.  high standard and have not been fully implemented.
subsidies) to cover, at a minimum, mechanisms for tariffs; (ii) the level of                       Some of the plans are being updated or redrafted now. At
their  operating  and  financial subsidies;  and  (iii) cost cutting                               the end of 1998, 28 of 30 enterprises reported loWses.
expenses.                       measures.



- 33 -
Objectives of Policy Measures        Measures Already taken        Indicative Plan for the Next Six                      Status
Months
Electricity
The average tariff has been increased to  To adjust all tariffs, as necessary to  Electricity prices were adjusted several times. In 1998,
about US$0.035/kWh in October 1997  ensure continued compliance with the GOB reached an agreement with the IMF on regular
and will be maintained at a cost covering  FESAL conditions.        adjustments till the year 2001. This agreement has been
level by the application of a fuel                                  complied with.    Latest adjustment took place on
adjustment formula agreed with the                                  01/01/99. Next one is planned for 07/01/99. Electricity
World Bank under the Power Project.                                 and rail tariffs were adequate but district heating tariffs
remained well below the level required for cost recovery
in 1997.
Railways
Passenger tariffs have been set, and will                            Regular railway tariff increases have been implemented.
be adjusted, as required, to achieve
recovery of at least 50 percent of
operating and fnancial expenses before
subsidies. Freight tariffs have been set,
and will be adjusted as required, to
achieve  full cost recovery  without
subsidies.
Telecommunications
Tariffs have been set to achieve full cost
recovery, and will be adjusted and
rebalanced as required, to maintain an
adequate level of investment and self-
financing ratio.
District Heating
Industrial tariffs have been set, and will                           District heating prices do not ensure financial viability,
be adjusted, as required, to achieve full                           and are being adjusted as agreed with the IMF.
cost recovery plus an adequate margin to
finance investments and working capital
requirements   without    subsidies.
Household tariffs have been set, and will
be adjusted as required, to achieve cost
recovery after subsidies.



- 34 -
Objectives of Policy Measures        Measures Already taken         Indicative Plan for the Next Six                     Status
Months
Isolation Program  (30 Group A  Natural Gas
enterprises) (continued)        Pending liberalization of the gas trade, Further liberalize the trade and  Being discussed in the context of FESAL II
the price of gas has been set, and will prices of gas, petroleum products,
remain regulated, on the basis of the CIF  and mining products.  No entry
price of gas delivered to Bulgaria, plus a  barriers to firms.
margin to cover transit costs and
overheads of Bulgargas.
Coal and lignite
Domestic prices of coal and lignite have
been raised close to world levels, and
imports are freely allowed with a low
tariff of up to 5 percent.
Financial Discipline
Restore fnancial discipline and  The Council of Ministers has issued a  Enforce the measures to restore  Utilities have adopted procedures for suspending service
ensure that utilities are effectively  Decision  requiring  the  utilities  to  fnancial discipline.  Ensure that to enterprises in arrears. These procedures are to be
collecting   their    accounts suspend service to, or to require advance  the aggregate payment arrears in  further discussed in light of the FESAL II agreements.
receivable.                     payment from, enterprises with arrears the enterprise sector have not
for more than 30 days. A monitoring  increased by more than 10 percent
system has been established that reports  above their level of June 30, 1997.
on the status of arrears on a weekly basis
to allow the Govermment to take action
in a timely fashion in the most important
cases.



- 35 -
Objectives of Policy Measures       Measures Already taken        Indicative Plan for the Next Six                   Status
Months
III. Banking Sector
Adjustments  to   the   Legal
Framework
Create a legal framework for the  A new "Law on Banks" has been passed, Enact a new Deposit Insurance  A  new  Deposit Insurance Law  acceptable to the
banking sector that is suitable for mainly to facilitate the resolution of Law, and establish a sound Deposit Bank/IMF was passed in April 1998 and became
the introduction of the Currency  insolvent banks, improve bank licensing  Insurance Scheme.      effective in January 1999. The law guarantees both BG
Board Arrangement (CBA) and the  procedures, strengthen accounting and                            Lev and foreign currency deposits at 95% for deposits up
development of a safe and sound  external auditing provisions, introduce                          to BG Lev 2 million, and at 80% for those above BG Lev
banking sector.                provisions on bankers' fiduciary duty                              2 million but no more than BG Lev 5 million. A Deposit
and conflicts of interest, rationalize                             Insurance Fund was set up in early 1999.
penalties for regulatory non-compliance,
and limit the coverage of the Law to  Decide on whether a new SSB Law  A Draft law on the Transformation of the SSB into a sole
banks.                              will be enacted and/or the existing  proprietor joint stock company became effective in April
Law will be revoked, with SSB  1998. It provides for subjecting SSB to the Law on
then subjected to the Law  On  Banks and for its transformation into a commercial bank.
Banks. Clarify the future role of The SSB is currently in a process of restructuring and
SSB, including the option of a transformation into a commercial bank. In August 1998
"narrow" bank,                 agreement was reached between the BNB and the SSB on
restrictions on the SSB's activities until it has the
capacity to conduct all normal commercial bank
operations.  A transition period was introduced that
would last until May 2000; during that transition period
all Lev deposits at the SSB will have a full government
guarantee; by end of 1998 the SSB had to comply with all
prudential regulations.
A new "Law on the Bulgarian National Amend the Collateral Law  and  The Law  on Registered Pledges has been passed,
Bank" has been passed to adjust BNB to  establish a registry of collateral.  amendments to it have been suggested and are expected
the needs of the CBA and to increase its                          to be approved by Parliament soon.  The collateral
independence and accountability.  In                               registry is being modernized.
particular, the new Law ensures the
independent authority of the Deputy
Governor responsible for banking
supervision.



- 36 -
Objectives of Policy Measures       Measures Already taken        Indicative Plan for the Next Six                   Status
Months
Strengthening   of    Banking
Supervision                    Banking Supervision has been improved  Ensure that at least five joint on- Intensive banking supervision department staff training
by  strengthening  the  independent site inspection teams are operating; carried out in 1997 and 1998.
Develop a safe and sound banking  authority  of  BNB's  Supervision  effective off-site surveillance are
system through enhancing BNB's  Department. The new Law on Banks functioning;  and an acceptable Joint on-site inspection teams have been formed as
authority  and  effectiveness in  authorizes BNB to revoke licenses of training program is ongoing.  needed and feasible, and training is being carried out by
enforcing the legal and regulatory  banks that violate the Law or the BNB                         international on-site experts.
framework.                     regulations, and obliges it to revoke
licenses  under   clearly  defined
conditions. If a license is revoked, a
conservator must be appointed, and
BNB must file for liquidation of the
bank or for bankruptcy proceedings.
The revocation of a bank license cannot
be appealed.
BNB    has   recruited  a  resident Ensure that full implementation of Programming and implementation of banking supervision
international  banking   regulation/ the banking supervision program is needs to be further strengthened. Banking supervision
supervision expert with assistance from  underway.                 program  acceptable to the Bank/IMF adopted and
the IMF and is recruiting two resident                             currently under implementation.
international  experts  for  off-site
surveillance  (EU-Phare)  and  two
resident international experts plus short-
term  experts (USAID) for on-site
examinations.
BNB has adopted a Strategic Plan for Ensure that all banks are either in  Higher capital adequacy requirements introduced for
On-site Examinations which requires: compliance with revised banking  1997 (8 %/6), 1998 (10%) and 1999 (12%) and met in 1997
(i) the  formation  of joint on-site regulations,  or  that  effective  and 1998.  The Banking Supervision Department
inspection teams that will include the regulatory enforcement measures monitors banks' compliance with revised banking
foreign examiners; (ii) improvement of have  been  taken,  including  regulations; in January 1998 the license of a private bank
the procedures for on-site inspections, withdrawal of bank licenses and  was revoked; recapitalization of banks has been carried
off-site analysis and early warning; (iii) filing for bankruptcy; that Bank  out in the context of privatization.
intensive training for bank supervisors; licenses have been revoked for all
and (iv) preparation  of an annual banks under conservatorship; and
compliance report covering all banks.  that recapitalization of banks will
be carried out only in the context of
The 1996 accounts of all PSBs have  a change in governance resulting
been audited by international auditing  from  privatization  or  a
firms and provided to the Bank for management contract.
review.



- 37 -
Objectives of Policy Measures       Measures Already taken         Indicative Plan for the Next Six                    Status
Months
Privatization  of Public  Sector
Banks (PSBs)
The   Government   has   announced                                  The Government's intention to privatize all PSBs or to
Ensure stabilization and growth of repeatedly its intention to privatize the                       enter into management contracts with reputable banks
the  banking  system   through  six PSBs (all PSBs other than SSB), or                             announced in 1997-1998; an intensive search for strategic
improving the governance of, and  to enter into management contracts with                          investors initiated.
the public's confidence in, the  reputable private banks, and an intensive
PSBs by changing their ownership  search for strategic investors has been
and/or management.             initiated.
Resident     international    bank  Conclude two transactions by end-  Two PSBs privatized in 1997 and 1998; three more PSBs
privatization/restructuring  consultants  1997 and initiate the preparatory  are currently in a process of privatization.
have been contracted for BCC, with  measures for the privatization of
reputable investment banks  to  be  the remaining four PSBs.
contracted, as necessary, to assist in the
privatization of selected PSBs.
The shares of a PSB (United Bank of
Bulgaria) have been sold to EBRD
(35%, plus a 35% call option), Bulbank
(35%) and Oppenheimer & Co. (30%),
and an agreement with the new owners
provides for an additional substantial
capital injection.
A Resolution Plan has been adopted for                              A management contract for Biochim Bank has been
an insolvent bank (Biochim  Bank),                                  signed. It provides for the strengthening of the bank's
which provides for the strengthening of                             management,  restrictions  on  lending,  enhanced
the bank's management, restrictions on                              supervision and preparation for privatization.
new lending, enhanced supervision,
recapitalization, and initiation of bidding
procedures for the bank's privatization or
the conclusion of a management
contract. The first steps of The Plan is
under implementation.



- 38 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Program Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Loan Preparation
Not Applicable
Table 8A: Program Costs
Appraisal estimate     Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)           (US$ million)
Item                          Local Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs            costs   costs
Rehabilitation Loan
IBRD                                30       30               30      30
Critical Imports Rehabilitation
Loan
IBRD                                40       40              40       40
FESAL I
IBRD                                100     100              100     100
*Import Export Bank of Japan         50      50
Total
Table 8B: Program Financing
Appraisal estimate     Actual/latest estimates
(IJS$ million)          (US$ million)
Item                          Local Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs            costs   costs
Rehabilitation Loan
IBRD                                30       30               30      30
Critical Imports Rehabilitation
Loan
IBRD                                40       40              40       40
FESAL I
IBRD                                100     100              100     100
*Import Export Bank of Japan         50      50
Total
* To date, no disbursements have been made.



- 39 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Rehabilitation Loan
Agreement              Section  Covenant Present                   Description of Covenant
Type     Status
Loan Agreement                       3.01       9        C    Borrower and the Bank to exchange views on the progress
(a, b, c)                  achieved in carrying out the program and on any proposed action
taken after loan disbursement that could reverse the program's
objectives.
Loan Agreement                       3.02       1        C    Borrower to have the Deposit Account audited in accordance
(a, b, c)                  with appropriate auditing principles to the Bank; to fumish to the
Bank reports of the audit by said auditors within 6 months after
the Bank's request for such audit; and to furnish information on
the Deposit Account and Audit to the Bank upon such request.
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
Covenant Present                   Description of Covenant
Agreement              Section    Type     Status
Loan Agreement                       3.01       9        C    Borrower and the Bank to exchange views on the progress
(a, b, c)                  achieved in carrying out the program and on any proposed action
taken after loan disbursement that could reverse the program's
objectives.
Loan Agreement                       3.02       1        C    Borrower to have the Deposit Account audited in accordance
(a, b, c)                  with appropriate auditing principles to the Bank; to furnish to the
Bank reports of the audit by said auditors within 6 months after
the Bank's request for such audit; and to fumish information on
the Deposit Account and Audit to the Bank upon such request.
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
Covenant Present                   Description of Covenant
Agreement              Section    Type     Status
Loan Agreement                      3.01        9        C    Borrower and the Bank to exchange views on the progress
(a, b, c)                  achieved in carrying out the program and on any proposed action
taken after loan disbursement that could reverse the program's
objectives.
Loan Agreement                       3.02       1        C    Borrower to have the Deposit Account audited in accordance
(a, b, c)                  with appropriate auditing principles to the Bank; to furnish to the
Bank reports of the audit by said auditors within 6 months after
the Bank's request for such audit; and to furnish information on
the Deposit Account and Audit to the Bank upon such request.
Covenant types:                                                            Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits               8. = Indigenous people                 C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10. = Project implementation not covered by  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds  categories 1-9                 NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or  other resource allocation
executing agency                12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants          regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement      13. = Other



- 40 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Bulgaria
Rehabilitation Loan
Actual
Stage of project cycle               Weeks              US$
Preparation to Appraisal
Appraisal                                            7.2              15.7
Negotiations through Board approval                  2.0              13.7
Supervision                                          5.4              35.8
Completion
Total                                          14.6             65.2
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
Actual
Stage of project cycle               Weeks                US$
Preparation to Appraisal                          20.2                77.5
Appraisal                                          1.3                3.5
Negotiations through Board approval                6.7                20.1
Supervision                                       5.1                 129.8
Completion
Total                                       33.3               230.9
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
Actual
Stage of project cycle                Weeks                  US$
Previous Fiscal Years                          N/A*                   N/A*
FY 1997-1999
Preparation to Appraisal                        131.8                 348.6
Appraisal                                       13.3                   44.2
Negotiations through Board approval              6.1                   22.1
Supervision                                     32.3                  108.8
Completion                                       1.7                   6.4
Total                                    185.2*                 530.1*
*Note: Previous fiscal years staff weeks and financial information is not retrievable.



- 41 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Bulgaria
Rehabilitation Loan
Performance RatingL     Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/   No. of Days in   Specialization'  Implem.      Developm. Problems3
Year    Persons  Field                      status     objectives
Through Appraisal          None
Appraisal through Board    None
approval
Supervision                None
Completion                 None
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
etc.                               etc.                            etc.
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
Performance Ratint      Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/   No. of Days in     Specialization'  Implem.    Developm. Problems3
Year    Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through Appraisal                     7
Appraisal through Board               1
approval
Supervision                           2
Completion
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performrance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
etc.                               etc.                             etc.
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
Performance Rating      Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/   No. of Days in   Specialization'  Implem.      Developm. Problems3
Year    Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through Appraisal        4/92-7/94    8
Appraisal through Board     10/96     1
approval
Supervision                3-4/98     2
Completion
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
etc.                               etc.                             etc.



- 42 -
Appendix 1
Page 1 of I
COUNCIL- OF MINISTERS
COMMISSION FOR WC,7- WITH THE INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL
ON THE IMPiI9 -    1- . 7  )N COMPLETION REPORT ON THE
REHABILITATION       OAN CR:Y- CAL     :'i .ORTS REHABILITATION LOAN
AND FINANCIAL A7.      17 .      ._L SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN I
*  The Implementation Completion      on the three loans has been reviewed by the
Ministry of Labor and Social; Polcy (MLSP), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Health, and tne Council for Stractural .. ,-orn
*  The Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance and the Council on Structural Reforn
have no remarks and agree with the assessments made in the Implementation
Completion Report of the World Bank.
*  The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MLSP) made the following comments on
the Rehabilitation Loan (4078-0-BUL):
1. Based on National Employment Service (NES) data, for the period July 1996 -
April 1999 68 757 people were registered as unemployed. They were released as a
result of the Structural Reforn and compensated with funds from the Loan,
according to the following scneme:
1996-     21 764 peopie
1997-     26 648 people
1998-     12 091 people
1999 -     8 254 people
Total:   68 757 people
2. In the process of utilization of the loan, the MLSP and NES have made their best
efforts to meet the loan's objectives in the agreed timeframes. A very good
organization for management and coordination of funds was established, all the
payments were made in time and 3 575 additional workers received compensations
for unemployment. Therefiore MLSP considers the Table I assessment "negligible"
under "Achievement oi objectives ", rows "Macro Policies", "Sector Policies ", and
"Institutional Development", and  fhe assessment of "deficient" in  under
"Implementation " do not refer to the work of MLSP and NES.
June 17, 1999



IBRD 26532R
22'             23'             24'             23'            26-                           1*7'
h-         R   0   M   A   N   I  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lbRchrs
-44--      Fair?"v                                R M A    A 
La                          U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FED.  cRE.  kDbonto             j   \t
OF        . ~~~~~-hiO TANA ,  .q-BEtA
YUGOSLAVIA       N           -3.S
(SERBIA/MONT.)                 VrotsiII?'kg, 
T. Pk-.-t'                                                                      a
BooO SOFIA :-'.-I.-                                                            1
T. Kri-a          k.toL  Dioril-o  ~ ,
Ei ot                     I 
N      0Mooaslio  ? ~~ ~~~~A Km oio0 ~L.                                            '* 
42'               B.     B -ogoo .odVig                                   *.,*-                   0        .
-                                 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Do.inoto 3 'I         j                                     2.7'  TURKEY
F  Y  R        C      Sodoaki G.
MACEDONIA  Tft,                                                         ~~~~~~BULGARIA
22'  loSers,!  To Drama             r-                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
2,2-         022.                                    1                                         OBLAST CAPITALS
T. K.-rMo                             *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
-  I ~~~~~I o-
r           -  -  ;LL-.I I~~~~~~~~~~~~NOEBE 19



