Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7096 BUL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC FlON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CRITICAL IMPORTS REHABILITATION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
April 21, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUiVALEN.TS
(as of March 15, 1997)
Currency Unit         LeN (plural Leva)
1,600L.ev    =    US51.00
USSO.000625    =    ILev
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNB   -  Bulgarian National Bank
BTC   -  Bulgaria Telecommunications Company
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CBA   -  Currency Board Arraneement
CCFF  -  Compensatory and Contigency Financing Facility
CETAL   -  Central Europe Telecoitimunications Agency Line
CMEA   -  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
CPPR   -  Country Portfolio Performance Review
DDSR   -  Debt and Debt-Service Reduction Loan
EBRD   -  European B3ank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB   -  European Investment Bank
EU   -  European Union
FIA   -  Foreign I nvestment Aaency
FESAL   -  Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loans
FIAS   -  Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FRP  -  Financial Recovery Plan
GNP  -  Gross National Product
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
IFI  -  International Financial Institution
IMF  -  International Mlonetarx Fund
JEXIM   -  Japan Export Import B ink
LIBOR   -  London Interbank Offer Rate
MIGP  -  Minimum Income Guarantee Program
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NES  -  National Employment Service
NSI  -  National Statistics Institute
PAYG   -  Pay-As-You-Go
RTC   -  Radio Telecommunications Company Ltd.
SFRD   -  State Fund for Reconstruction and Development
SOE   -  State-Owned Enterprise
SPAL   -  Social Protection Adjuitment Loan
SSB   -  State Savings Bank
TA   -  Technical Assistance
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -  United States AgencN 'or International Development
VAT       Value-Added Fax
Vice President:                      Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:                            Kenneth G Lay, ECI
Division Chief:                      Ralph W. Ilarbison, EC1/2HR
Senior Economist/Country Economist:  Neeta Sirul-. ECI/2HR/Dong He, ECICO



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CRITICAL IMPORTS REHABILITATION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
CONTENTS
Loan Summary ..........i
1. THE ECONOMY .
A. Background                           .I
B. The Current Crisis                     .2
The Financial and Economic Crisis .2
Social Impact                      .4
Political Impact                    .4
C. Recent Developments                    .5
11.  THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF STABILIZATION AND REFORMS .... 6
A. Macroeconomic Program                     .6
Fiscal Policy                      .7
Monetary Policy                     .8
B. Structural Reforms                     .8
Enterprise Reforms                    .8
Banking Reforms                      .9
Agriculture Reforms .10
Social Protection Reforms .1
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN .12
Objectives and Description .12
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy .13
Loan Administration .14
Benefits and Risks .15
IV. BANK OPERATIONS .15
Bank's Assistance Strategy.                                  1 5
Portfolio Implementation .16
Previous Adjustment Operations .17
Creditworthiness.                                            1 8
Role of IFC, MIGA and FIAS .18
V. COORDINATION WITH OTHER MULTILATERAL INSTITUJTIONS
AND OFFICIAL DONORS .19
Vi. RECOMMENDATION .21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES:
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2: Government's Action Plan Policy Matrix
Annex 3: Bulgaria at a Glance
Annex 4: Poverty Indicators
Annex 5: National Accounts
Annex 6: Exports and Imports
Annex 7: Balance of Payments
Annex 8: External Debt Stocks and Flows
Annex 9: Public Finance
Annex 10: Monetary Survey
Annex 11: Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 12: Timetable for Key Processing Steps
MAP IBRD No. 28735



- i -
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
PROPOSED CRITICAL IMPORTS REHABILITATION LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Bulgaria
Amount:             US$40 million
Terms:              Twenty years maturity including a five-year grace period, standard
interest rate for LIBOR based dollar single currency loan. Commitment
Fee: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Program Objectives: To support the initial phase of the government's new stabilization and
reform prograta.
Loan Description:    The loan will help finance the additional costs in the initial phase of the
program for the import of key, socially-important commodities,
currently in extremely short supply. The loan will be disbursed in a
single tranche upon effectiveness based on measures already taken by
the Government.
Benefits:           The proposed loan would assist the Government to reduce shortages of
vital commodities thereby helping to alleviate some of the day-to-day
hardship of the public and at the same time building public confidence in
the program of economic stabilization and structural reform which the
Government has agreed with the Bank and IMF. Timely implementation
of the program is critical to arresting (and reversing) the country's deep
economic crisis and to the restoration of domestic and international
confidence in the country's economic prospects.
Risks:              In light of Bulgaria's history, there is a risk that political protests will
weaken Government's commitment to carrying through on painful
reforms. This risk is, however, partially mitigated in this instance by the
joint declaration of all political parties to support the program, and the
fact that major infusion of external funds will await implementation of
the currency board arrangement and major structural reform measures.
An additional risk derives from the Government's weak implementation
capacity, which could impede progress on structural reforms. Provision
of TA by the Bank and other donors for SOE restructuring and banking
reform should help reduce this risk.
Rate of Return:     N.A.
Appraisal Report:   N.A.
Est.Disbursements:   US$40 million
Disb. Schedule:     1997 - US$40 million
Financing Plan:     N.A.
Project ID No.:     BG-PE-50540






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CRITICAL IMPORTS REHABILITATION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
I.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan to the Republic of Bulgaria for the equivalent of US$40
million to support the initial phase of the government's new stabilization and reform program.
The loan would be made at the Bank's single currency LIBOR based floating interest rates in US
dollars, with maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
1. THE ECONOMY
A. Background
2.    The Country Assistance Strategy (15423-BUL) discussed with the Board of Executive
Directors on April 9, 1996, presented a background summary of economic developments in
Bulgaria, highlighting the fragility of conditions in the country. While the CAS noted a small
improvement in economic conditions during 1994 and 1995, following a severe and prolonged
recession since the beginning of the transition (see Table I below), it also maintained that the
fledgling recovery could not be sustained without much more forceful govemment effort to
resolve the fundamental structural problems of the economy. In particular, the CAS stressed the
need for firm action to privatize the country's large, predominantly loss-making state enterprise
sector, and most urgently, to eliminate the sector's significant losses -- which averaged in excess
of 15 percent of GDP a year during the transition period. It also emphasized the links between
these state-owned enterprise (SOE) losses and the growing crisis of confidence among depositors
in Bulgaria's banking system, given continued financing of SOE losses by state banks (and some
private banks) despite the deteriorating capability of SOEs to fully service their debts.
3.    Indeed, by the end of 1995, about 70 percent of the loan portfolios of 9 (out of 11)
Bulgarian state banks was impaired, as was nearly 50 percent of private bank portfolios. Losses
in the banking system had amounted to nearly 3.5 percent of GDP in 1995 and the total negative
net worth of the system was estimated at close to US$1.0 billion. The Bulgarian National Bank
(BNB) attempted to ease the severe liquidity problems in the troubled banks by extending them
unsecured credit. However, given government's failure to require adequate restructuring and
rehabilitation measures by the troubled banks or to address the underlying problem of financing
of SOE losses, confidence in the banking system continued to erode. The additional infusion of
liquidity simply fueled inflation and created added pressures on the foreign exchange markets. In
an effort to maintain relative stability in the value of the lev, the BNB then intervened repeatedly
in the foreign exchange markets, depleting valuable foreign exchange reserves.



- 2 -
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Est.
1992    1993   1994   1995    1996
Real Economy
GDP Growth                                -7.3    -1.5     1.8    2.1    -9.0
Inflation (CPI annual average)            82.0    72.8   96.0   62.1   123.0
Inflation (CPI end-period)               79.4    63.8  121.9   32.9   310.7
Nominal Exchange Rate (Leva/IJS$)         23.3    27.6   54.1    67.2   179.2
Nominal Exchange Rate (Leva/US$, eop)     24.5    32.7   66.0   70.7   487.4
Investment and Savings (% of GDP)
Gross Domestic Investment                 16.2    13.0   14.2   15.4    13.6
Gross Domestic Savings                    16.3     6.8    11.1    17.9    16.7
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
Exports GNFS                              58.4    45.2   48.9    52.4    64.6
Imports GNFS                              62.0    53.7   53.5    50.3    61.9
Resource Balance                          -3.6    -8.5   -4.5    2.1        2.7
Primary Balance                          -3.1    -8.4   -2.9    3.0         4.4
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)        -9.3   -12.8   -2.1    -0.5       0.5
Balance of Payments (US$ million)
Trade Balance                            -213    -885    -17    120        145
Merchandise Exports, fob               3956    3727   3935    5345    4724
Merchandise Imports, cif               4169    4612   3952   5224    4579
Current Account Balance                  -801   -1386   -203    -59         50
Public Finance (% of GDP)
Total Revenue                             38.7    37.2   41.8   36.1    33.0
Total Expenditure /a                      45.9    48.1   48.2   41.8    43.9
Social Security                         14.3    15.1   13.7   10.9         9.6
Interest                                  8.5     9.4   14.2    14.2    20.5
Other Current                           20.4    21.7   18.7    15.5    13.2
Capital                                   2.8     1.9    1.7    1.2        0.6
Primary Balance                            1.3    -1.6    7.7    8.5        9.6
Fiscal Balance                            -7.2   -10.9   -6.4   -5.7   -10.9
/a Excludes expenditures by the State Fund for
Reconstruction and Development (SFRD).
Source: NSI, Sofia, and World Bank Staff Estimates
B. The Current Crisis
The Financial and Economic Crisis
4.     By the beginning of 1996, a series of events contributed to a downward spiral in
economic performance that deepened as the year progressed. The announcement of a poorly
designed deposit insurance scheme, which made explicit (but limited) the government's backing
of depositors claims on banks, aggravated an early run on deposits. This was further exacerbated
by growing fears among the population that the Government might confiscate foreign exchange
deposits to meet foreign debt service payments. As a result, foreign exchange deposits declined



- 3 -
by close to US$1.0 billion since the end of 1995. Moreover, due to the attempts by BNB to
defend the exchange rate, foreign exchange reserves declined by a similar amount during the
period. Despite these pressures, the Government remained current in servicing foreign debt
obligations.
5.     Eventually, in an attempt to arrest the decline in foreign exchange reserves and prevent a
further withdrawal of deposits, the government substantially increased nominal interest rates and
allowed the exchange rate to float more freely. These measures, however, did not succeed in
stabilizing the demand for money. Consequently, they served to sharply increase the budget's
nominal interest payments and the required Central Bank financing for the rising budget deficit,
which led to continued depreciation of the currency and a surge in inflation.
6.     With the growing deterioration of the bank's portfolios and the eventual runs on the
banks, the true economic effects of the earlier uncontrolled financing became apparent and
forced the Government to take decisive actions. Between May 1996 and January 1997, the BNB
filed for the bankruptcy of 15 banks, together holding about 31 percent of household deposits
outside the State Savings Bank (SSB) and 23 percent of total enterprise deposits. The banks
placed under conservatorship have ceased operations. The courts, however, repeatedly delayed
ruling on the bankruptcy of the banks in conservatorship. As a result, depositors could not regain
access to their deposits, further undermining confidence in the banking sector.
7.     In addition to closing the 15 banks, the government, throughout 1996, made other
attempts to introduce reforms aimed at reversing the economic decline and gaining support from
the international financial institutions. These efforts, however, were hesitant and incomplete and
failed to secure timely financing for the program. Among the most important measures taken
were actions in the area of enterprise reform, where the Government started to reduce enterprise
losses through a program of liquidation, isolation, and privatization. The program was achieved
in part with the effective closure or privatization of 41 enterprises that together accounted for 16
percent of SOE losses. Enterprises accounting for another 50 percent of the losses were placed
in isolation and have since been managed on cash basis only (with a few minor exceptions) and
financial recovery plans have been prepared. The government also privatized several state
enterprises and proceeded with the first auction under its mass privatization program. Under the
cash privatization, the Government sold enterprises accounting for 4.2 percent of long-term
assets (measured in terms of 1995 assets) and offered for mass privatization 968 enterprises
accounting for 17.5 percent of long-term sectoral assets. A first auction for sale of the SOE
shares was held in 1996, during which only two-thirds of vouchers were exchanged for shares
and only 129 SOEs were fully sold.
8.     These measures, while establishing the basis for more fundamental reforms in the near
future, nevertheless did not reach the critical level necessary to garner the level of financial
support being sought by the government. The hesitant pattern of reforms further reduced
confidence in government's policies and introduced considerable uncertainty, which, when
combined with the general lack of available credit in the economy, led to a sharp downturn in
economic activity. By late 1996, the country found itself in the midst of a full blown economic
crisis as the result of a vicious circle of galloping inflation, exchange rate depreciation, increases
in the budget deficit, growing payments on the domestic debt, increased Central Bank financing
and consequently ever higher inflation rates. The depth of the crisis was reflected in the
economic outcomes for 1996: real GDP fell by an estimated 9 percent; from end-1995 to end-



- 4 -
1996, the lev depreciated from 71 to 487 per US dollar; and, 12 month inflation accelerated from
33 to 311 percent for 1996.
9.    In December 1996-January 1997 the economic crisis turned into a political one, which
aggravated, in turn, the economic crisis. The lev depreciated further to 3,000 per US dollar in
mid-February; inflation reached an historical high of 242 percent for February; foreign exchange
reserves dwindled to US$ 415 million (the equivalent of less than one month of imports); and the
public sector deficit, which last year reached 10.9 percent of GDP, continued to widen, as the
Central Government's revenues in the first quarter of 1997 covered only 64 percent of
expenditures, and were devoted entirely to meet interest payments on the public debt.
Social Impact
10.    As might be expected, the impact of the economic crisis on Bulgarian households has
been disastrous. Even with a doubling of (nominal) wages in the budget sector in February and a
further 60 percent increase on March 1, the average wage was approximately US$20 per month
in March -- i.e., an amount insufficient to purchase even the most basic food requirements for an
average-sized (3-person) household. Conditions have been even more dire for pensioners, others
dependent on cash transfers from the state (social assistance, disability and unemployment
benefits) whose March incomes were below US$10 per month in most instances and those
receiving minimum wages, which stood at about US$12 in March. Households' difficulties were
compounded by shortages and/or sky-rocketing prices of basic necessities, including bread
shortages (given an estimated 600,000 ton shortfall of wheat till the next harvest due both to
unfavorable weather and inappropriate policies), the near-absence of medicines due to non-
payment by the health system for last year's supplies, and shortages of energy and of petroleum
products as a consequence of a sharp decline in crude oil imports by cash-strapped domestic
refineries. Moreover, the severe shortages of seeds, fertilizer and agricultural chemicals threaten
the future livelihood of households reliant on incomes from agriculture, especially if these
shortages persist past the upcoming planting season.
11.    A UJNDP-led multi-agency Needs Assessment mission which visited Bulgaria in
February found that the country was on the verge of a humanitarian crisis -- citing, inter alia, a
25 percent increase in low birth weight babies; a small, but significant, increase in infant
mortality; a decline in energy intake (especially for children) to approximately 15 percent below
recommended daily food allowances; and rises in micronutrient deficiencies including iron-
deficiency anemia, iodine deficiency and calcium deficiency due to dramatic declines in the
consumption of meat and fresh fruit and vegetables. This suggests that many households,
particularly those living solely or primarily on fixed incomes provided by the state, have little or
no capacity to cope with further shocks. The country's social safety net, though costly in that it
amounts to about 13-14 percent of GDP, was clearly unable to assist those most in need,
principally because it has tended to provide small transfers to broad segments of the population,
irrespective of relative need.
Political Impact
12.    The severity of the social impact of the economic crisis was instrumental in bringing
down Bulgaria's government, with resignation of the Cabinet and dissolution of Parliament
taking place in February 1997 in the wake of sustained and intensifying political protests. The
political crisis was adroitly handled by the new President of the Republic. elected in November,



- 5 -
who directed the formation of a new interim Government, which will remain in office until
elections are held in the latter half of April and a new Government is formed, most likely in early
May. The outgoing parliament bestowed broad powers on the interim Government to manage
economic policy, including authority to conduct negotiations with International Financial
Institutions (IFls).
C. Recent Developments
13.    Since taking office in late February, the interim Government has taken a series of
important measures to arrest the crisis and begun to set the stage for a more fundamental
program of stabilization and structural reform. Given the pressing need to alleviate the country's
severe bread shortage, the incoming Government gave high priority to securing additional
supplies of wheat through emergency import deals and by liberalization of the wholesale price
for domestic wheat to increase the market availability of stocks held by producers. In addition,
the Government has established by decree that state entities will sell imported wheat
domestically at US$160 per ton and maintain the price at least at 85 percent of international
prices (as compared with US$85 or 50% of international prices until mid-March 1997). The
Prime Minister has also announced that all cereal sale prices will be liberalized as of July 1, 1997
and that any existing export bans will be lifted. As a result of these efforts it is estimated that
consumption needs through May are largely covered, but that there is still a need for an
additional 230,000 tons to cover requirements for the period from May until the next harvest in
August.
14.    The Government also moved rapidly to improve conditions in other critical areas of the
economy. In particular, to alleviate shortages of petroleum derivatives, it raised their prices by
about 297 percent (to bring prices closer to international levels), replaced the management of the
country's largest refinery and introduced a temporary export ban. Steps have also been taken to
stem the losses of state-owned public utilities (about 30 in number) which will not be privatized.
Prices of electricity, coal, natural gas, liquid fuels and water were substantially increased,
bringing the prices to (or very close to) international levels and sufficient to cover costs. The
administered prices for district heating and public transportation have also been raised, but full
cost recovery is not anticipated and subsidies to cover the gap have already been included in the
budget. To partially shield the poor from these price increases, an existing scheme providing
utility vouchers to the country's most vulnerable households (roughly 17 percent of households)
is being augmented with support from the European Union.
15.    The Government has also taken steps in the banking sector, where a number of the
remaining seven state banks continue to be financially weak. The Government has arranged for
the strongest state-owned bank to extend a loan to the Ministry of Finance, which, in turn, will
support the immediate liquidity needs of the weakest of the large public sector banks in the
country. This loan will be repaid with the proceeds from privatization. Overall, the health of the
banking system remains fragile, even though solvency conditions appear to have improved as a
result of the recent currency depreciation. Earlier indications of foreign investor interest in bank
purchases, which could assist in improving conditions in the banking sector, have so far not
come to fruition.
16.   In parallel with the above, the interim Government has taken decisive steps to design an
economic stabilization and reform program, working closely with staff of the IMF and the Bank.
Design of the program was undertaken by several working groups under the auspices of the



- 6 -
Financial Stabilization Council, headed by the Prime Minister, and the Structural Reform
Council, led by the Deputy Prime Minister. In an unprecedented step, the two-part program,
covering short-term measures to be carried out during the tenure of the caretaker Government
and others to be implemented upon election of a new Parliament, was presented to
representatives of all the major political parties in the country. In turn, the parties signed a joint
declaration stating their willingness to work towards the passage of all laws required for the
success of the program, once the new Parliament is in place. Hence, the program is expected to
be fully pursued by a new Government, once in office.
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF STABILIZATION AND REFORMS
17.   The core principles governing the Government's new economic program are the
achievement of: macroeconomic stabilization; a speedy and transparent program of privatization;
financial stabilization; liberalization of prices and trade; quick reduction of SOE losses; reduced
corruption and prosecution of those responsible for plundering national assets; improved
incentives for business and investment; restructured state finances and a downsized public
sector; rapid completion of the restitution of farm land; and reinforcement (through improved
targeting) of the social safety net.
A. Macroeconomic Program
18.    The main objectives of the macroeconomic program of the government are to reduce
inflation rapidly and restore economic growth through the stabilization of the exchange rate, a
fiscal policy that does not require central bank credit, and a healthy balance of payments
position. The centerpiece of the macroeconomic stabilization program will be the introduction
of a Currency Board Arrangement (CBA) in June 1997 aimed at: (i) establishing a credible
arrangement for reducing inflation through elimination of discretion in monetary policy; and (ii)
enforcing financial discipline at the highest levels of the financial system in the expectation that
such discipline will permeate to the other levels of the economy. The basic elements of the CBA
will include full convertibility of the lev, readiness to redeem base money for foreign currency at
a fixed exchange rate, elimination of central bank financing to the budget and other debtors,
lifting of all controls on interest rates, and creation of a special liquidity fund to provide last
resort lending to banks only in the event of a systemic risk. The Board will have complete
independence from the Government.
19.   In order to ensure the viability of the CBA, the Government will have to: (i) pursue strict
fiscal policies that eliminate any need for central bank financing; (ii) introduce financial and
banking sector reforms that restore the soundness of, and confidence in, the system; (iii) reduce
the losses of the state owned enterprises through an aggressive program of liquidation and
privatization; and (iv) embark on a program of price and trade liberalization, especially in the
agricultural sector, which will remove the impediments to the creation of a market economy and
help attract foreign investment. Preparations for establishment of the CBA are already
underway, with a program to strengthen the banking sector (discussed below), drafting required
legislation, and a number of operational steps in both the central bank financial position and the
management of the domestic debt issuance.



-7-
Fiscal Policy
20.    The budget agreed under the Stand-by Arrangement anticipates a rapid reduction in the
rate of inflation and nominal interest rates in the second half of 1997 and is predicated on
substantial efforts by the Government to contain expenditures and strengthen revenue
collections. The overall level of non interest expenditures is programmed to remain relatively
constant as a share of GDP (but will decline slightly in real terms since GDP is expected to fall
by 5 percent in 1997). Nominal interest payments, mostly on the domestic debt, are expected to
drop considerably with the reduction in the rate of inflation and improved confidence. The
overall budget deficit of 3.8 percent of GDP will be financed primarily from privatization
proceeds and external flows. The deficit results mostly from the continued high interest
payments on the debt, since overall, the public sector actually will be running a primary surplus
of 4.5 percent of GDP in 1997.
21.    Control of non-interest expenditures will be achieved primarily through rationalization
of programs and a reduction in public employment by 10 percent of the work force. Measures
will be taken to improve the structure of expenditures in health and education. Social safety net
programs will be consolidated, enhanced and better targeted through improved means testing. In
line with projected increases in the minimum wage and in public sector wages (to an average
level of US$65 per month in the second half of 1997), the average level of pensions has been
budgeted to increase to US$34 per month.
22.   In addition, the 1997 consolidated general government budget makes explicit provision
for procurement of critical socially-important commodities (such as agricultural inputs, wheat,
fuel oil, etc.) At least $22 million equivalent has also been allocated for purchases of medicines,
including essential drugs and vaccines to ensure sufficient flows of new supplies to hospitals and
clinics plus an additional $20 million equivalent to clear health system arrears to pharmaceutical
suppliers. The Government intends to achieve greater efficiency in the purchase of these
commodities through the use of improved and more transparent procurement procedures.
23.    While the level of revenues are difficult to predict under the volatile economic
conditions prevailing in the country, the Government will undertake a number of measures to
strengthen collections. Tax brackets are being adjusted according to inflation. The valuation of
property has been raised to market levels. Tax preferences are being phased out. Penalties and
interest on overdue tax liabilities have been increased. A unit responsible for improving
collections from large tax-payers is being established, and rules for VAT registration and
invoicing have been tightened. The Government intends to maintain the current 22 percent VAT
rate until the end of the year, when it expects to present to parliament a comprehensive tax
reform program to improve the overall fairness, efficiency and transparency of the system.
24.   In preparation for the CBA, the Government is consolidating existing budgetary and
extra-budgetary cash balances into a fiscal reserve account. The creation of such an account will
help institute a buffer for cash flow management, and will help to track fiscal developments.
The account will initially be comprised of available deposits of the public sector, and will
include external financing and privatization proceeds. The status of the account will be
published monthly, and will be monitored according to pre-specified performance criterion. The
key to the success for maintaining a comfortable level of funding will be the Government's
ability to achieve its privatization targets and to secure external financing within the time frame
envisaged in the budget.



-8-
Monetary Policy
25.    With the removal of the need to finance the budget, monetary policy will be unburdened
and efforts will be concentrated on preparing for the introduction of the CBA. The Central Bank
is winding down its reverse repurchasing agreements on government securities. It has liberalized
the basic interest rate by linking it to the average yield on the auctions for 7 day treasury bills.
The exchange rate will be managed so as to avoid a further appreciation of the currency from the
levels that prevailed in mid-March, while curbing substantial further depreciation through a
tightening of liquidity. Otherwise, until the introduction of the CBA, monetary policy will be
guided by monthly targets, especially those for central bank net domestic assets.
B. STRUCTURAL REFORMS
26.    Structural reforms are critical for the success of the government's program. The
Government recognizes the importance of establishing a fundamental break from past practices,
and has committed itself to introducing a significant program of reforms. The program focuses
on four important areas: enterprise sector privatization and loss reduction; banking sector reform;
liberalization of prices and trade, especially in the agricultural sector; and social protection
reform.
Enterprise Reforms
27.    Privatization and enterprise reform are at the core of the structural program. The
government realizes the need to move aggressively with an expanded privatization program for
both budgetary and efficiency reasons. The financing of the macroeconomic program for 1997
and the viability of the currency board arrangement depend crucially on privatization proceeds.
Therefore, cash privatization for several major enterprises will have to be completed this year. In
addition, the privatization program is key to reestablishing economic growth, to attracting much
needed (foreign) investment, and to improving corporate governance and efficiency of the
enterprise sector in Bulgaria. It will also depoliticize markets and the relationship between
banks and enterprises. The Government has unequivocally committed itself to complete the
mass privatization program and to expand the cash privatization. The Government announced
that several of the largest SOEs, representing 22 percent of the long-term assets of the sector,
will be offered for sale. So far, 18 percent of the state owned assets have been privatized (5%
cash, 13% through mass privatization). With the new commitments, the Government intends to
have 25 percent of the assets privatized by June and an additional 15 percent between June and
December 1997.
28.    The targets for cash privatization for 1997 ranges between US$300 to US$350 million,
with all received cash to be transferred to the budget. The completion of the cash privatizations
along with the mass privatization program will mean that by the end of 1997, 40 percent of the
long term assets of the SOE sector will have been sold. The cash privatization scheduled for the
current year is very ambitious, given Bulgaria's track record, and it will test the willingness and
ability of the Government, and the Privatization Agency in particular, to complete the full
process. Accordingly, the Government has requested the assistance of the World Bank,
European Union and others with the technical and financial support for investment banking
advice. The Government's intention is to subcontract to these advisors the privatization of 30



-9-
large companies. The Government is already relying on World Bank financed technical
assistance to finalize the sale of shares in the Bulgarian Telecommunications Company (BTC),
the final sale of which will be completed in 1998.
29.    A key element of the overall privatization program is the voucher based mass
privatizations. The Government should complete the first wave (which includes three separate
auctions) of the program by the end of June 1997. As noted earlier two thirds of the vouchers
were exchanged for equity during the first auction, and 129 enterprises were fully sold. In the
second auction an additional 61 companies are being offered for sale and the Government
expects most remaining shares (i.e., those not sold in the first auction) to be taken, especially if
credibility in the government's economic recovery program is established. Depending on the
outcome of the first wave of mass privatization and the success of the cash privatization
program, the Government may decide to hold a second wave of mass privatization by the end of
1997.
30.   In the liquidation program, the Government is committed to closing 64 enterprises
initially, which accounted for 28 percent of the SOE losses in 1995 or 30 percent of the negative
value added in the public sector. Already 30 of these enterprises were closed and II were
privatized. The remaining closures will be completed by June 1997. The program of liquidation
will be expanded to include those commercial enterprises formerly in the isolation program that
are not viable candidates for privatization. As part of the isolation program, financial recovery
plans (FRPs) are prepared for the 71 enterprises under the program. Now that some of the FRPs
have been completed, they clearly demonstrate that some companies are simply not viable and
should be liquidated. To facilitate the process of closures the Government instituted last year a
special severance payment mechanism for the workers being dismissed. The physical assets of
the companies under liquidation will also be eventually sold. For the non-utility companies that
are viable, the Government has committed to offer them for accelerated cash privatization.
Banking Reforms
31.    As a part of the preliminary agreements reached under the Standby Arrangement and the
World Bank's Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan program, the Government
intends to take a number of legal, regulatory and policy measures to strengthen the banking
sector and to boost confidence in the convertibility of the lev under a CBA.
32.    The Government plans to amend the Law on Banks and Credit Activity to rationalize
bank licensing, strengthen accounting and external auditing provisions, introduce provisions on
the fiduciary duty and conflict of interests of bankers, and rationalize penalties for regulatory
non-compliance. The Law of the BNB is to be amended to provide for the independent authority
of the Deputy Governor responsible for Banking Supervision and for an annual international
audit. A new Law of Bank Insolvency is to be passed to facilitate the closure of insolvent banks.
The Government also intends to establish a new deposit insurance scheme that will provide
limited coverage of deposits while avoiding moral hazard. A review of all BNB banking
regulations is underway, including regulations for bank licensing, capital adequacy, loan
classification and provisioning, foreign exchange exposures, and liquidity. This review will lead
to the adoption of revised regulations that reflect international practices which are also consistent
with the CBA.



- 10-
33.    To address the problems of governance in the public sector commercial banks, the
authorities are committed to their privatization under an agreed timetable. They also adopted the
principle that no recapitalization of banks by public funds would occur except as part and parcel
of privatization. Management contracts with reputable foreign management teams will be
actively sought for the banks which cannot be privatized in the near future. Impediments to
foreign investment in domestic banks and to the establishment of reputable banks are to be
removed. This includes permitting foreign currency denomination of share capital, and
exempting from taxes unrealized capital gains (from asset revaluation) and unrealized
expenditures from provisioning..
34.    To improve the effectiveness of banking supervision, a number of resident foreign
banking supervisors will be contracted and joint on-site inspection teams will be formed. The
number of qualified staff in the Banking Supervision Department will be increased, and the
independent authority of Banking Supervision will be strengthened. To enhance the liquidity of
banks' assets, restrictions on ZUNK bonds (originally issued to recapitalize banks) are to be
eliminated. In the meantime, the BNB will promote the free trading of ZUNK bonds. These
measures will establish a market for the ZUNK bonds, as they are similar to the Bulgarian Brady
bonds, and some arbitrage between these markets is expected to occur.
35.    The banking system will be further strengthened prior to the adoption of the currency
board. There will be no insolvent or illiquid banks present at the time of the introduction of the
CBA. The problems of any state owned bank currently experiencing difficulties will have to be
resolved (in a manner satisfactory to the IFIs). Besides the recent measures to provide financial
support to the weakest state bank along with the change in its management, the Government has
established that measures to support any state bank to achieve acceptable levels of liquidity or
solvency will be accompanied by management contracts until privatization.
36.    Legal measures will be taken to subject the State Savings Bank (SSB) to the Law on
Banks and Credit Activity, and to clarify the responsibilities and powers of the SSB Board. SSB
is to retain and improve its character of a narrow bank so that the 100 percent state guarantee on
its deposits will not incur any contingent liability for the government. To increase the
responsiveness of deposit rates to market-determined interest rates, deposit rates at the SSB will
be adjusted monthly to reflect market conditions. The basic interest rate has in turn been allowed
to reflect market yields and has been defined as the average monthly yield on short-term
government securities.
Agriculture Reforms
37.   In the agricultural sector, the Government recognizes the urgent need to proceed rapidly
with the liberalization of the sector and to accelerate the land reform and titling in order to
improve the prospects for increased production. Bulgaria has considerable potential in
agriculture, since it is well endowed with some of the most productive land in Eastern Europe.
This potential can be tapped once again with the introduction of proper policies. In this context,
the main policy objectives of the Government in Bulgaria are to create a competitive market-
based and export-oriented agriculture and food industry. To achieve these goals it will be
essential over time to remove a number of barriers faced by the sector, such as price controls,
profit margins, trade restrictions, poor land titling, and the stifling presence of state controlled
institutions and reserves.



- I1 -
38.   In the area of pricing and trade policy, the Government intends to eliminate the system
of controls on profit margins of agricultural and food products, and eliminate import quota and
duties on cereals and cereal products, by end-May. By July 1, the Government intends to
eliminate all export bans (with no export tax to be introduced) and liberalize the procurement and
the sale prices of wheat and other cereal products, remove any non-tariff barriers against the
import and export of agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, and abolish any direct and indirect
subsidies to prices of wheat, wheat flour, bread and other cereal products. This should re-
establish farmers' confidence that for the next crop they will be able to receive comparable
export market prices. To promote foreign trade, there are also plans to eliminate import and
export administrative constraints such as licensing/registration, with a few exceptions including
ex ante licensing for health and safety reasons, and ex post licensing for statistical purposes.
39.    The liberalization of agriculture will be accompanied by the legal changes that will
reduce complex regulations and will facilitate leasing arrangements, titling, occupation rights
and the foreign ownership of land. Additionally, the Government has committed itself to
promote competition by privatizing many of the state trading companies and the shops, bakeries
and agricultural companies it still owns.
Social Protection Reforms
40.    As noted in paras. 10-11, the past few months have been extremely difficult for
Bulgarian households which have suffered severe declines in income and endured shortages of
basic necessities. Among the shortages was the near-absence of critically-needed medicines,
vaccines and medical supplies, which has caused great hardship to many individuals suffering
from illness and disease. Shortages of vaccines have threatened the continued operation of
immunisation and other preventive health programs, risking a reversal of the country's
impressive past achievements in public health. To ameliorate public health conditions, the
Government's fiscal program for 1997 includes funding for the purchase of medicines and
vaccines for the year's health needs. The Government has also undertaken to ensure that
administrative arrangements are put in place to quickly deliver purchased medical supplies to
hospitals and clinics. In this regard, it should be noted that contracts are already being entered
into with foreign and domestic pharmaceuticals suppliers for virtually the full complement of
1997 medical supplies. In addition, a number of other steps aimed at addressing short and
medium term social protection issues are included in the Government's program and are
described below.
41.    The series of measures contemplated in the program, particularly the tariff adjustments,
price increases and reductions in public sector employment, will have an adverse economic and
social impact on many groups within society -- but especially the relatively poor. To ensure an
adequate safety net for the population, the Government is committed to reforming its social
protection programs with the following aims: (i) ensuring adequate protection of relatively
vulnerable population groups within a constrained fiscal envelope through improved targeting
and setting of meaningful benefit levels for those targeted; (ii) ensuring the medium- and longer-
run fiscal sustainability of the social protection system in a manner consistent with economic
growth objectives in a market economy; and (iii) increasing the fiscal transparency and
substantially reducing duplication and fragmentation among the various, overlapping social
protection programs. As with other structuiral reforms, actions in the social protection area will
be divided into two parts, with some actions to be taken in the next 2-3 months and others to be
put in place by the end of this year, following the election of the new Parliament. Measures in



- 12 -
the first phase contain a mix of actions aimed at both easing the social costs of macroeconomic
stabilization and structural reforms in other sectors as well as at beginning to improve the
targeting and fiscal sustainability of the social protection system. Measures in the second phase
are aimed primarily at consolidating measures to improve targeting and increase medium-term
viability.
42.    Among the key short-run measures to be taken are the following: (i) establishment of a
better targeted, consolidated two-tier differentiated minimum income guarantee (MIGP) program
-- comprising both the existing minimum income guarantee scheme and the utility voucher
program -- able to provide better protection to households with young children; (ii)
improvements in services provided by social care institutions and outreach programs through
better collaboration with NGOs and centralization of responsibility for inter-municipal
institutions; (iii) extension of the severance pay program to cover laid off workers from the
budgetary sector (approximately 60,000 workers); (iv) a gradual increase in real pensions
coupled with passage of a ministerial decree reducing the numbers of workers included in special
early retirement categories in accordance with a time-table satisfactory to the Bank; (v) clearance
of arrears for pharamaceuticals and securing of new supplies of critical medicines; (vi) improved
targeting of child allowances, third year maternity benefits and medical support programs; and
(vii) reduction of the payroll tax for the unemployment fund from 5% to 3%, extension of the
contribution period for unemployment benefits eligibility and a change in the formula for
minimum unemployment benefits to reduce work disincentives. Progress in many of these areas
is already apparent and key new expenditures (e.g., for medicines, higher pensions, and the
minimum income guarantee scheme) have been included in the budget despite the tight fiscal
situation -- reflecting Government's strong commitment to maintaining critical elements of the
safety net.
43.    The second set of measures (to be completed before end-1997) would involve
consolidation and deepening of some of the measures taken in the first phase. A key goal would
be to contain costs of and strengthen the financial viability of the pension fund while maintaining
adequate protection for (true) old-age risk. In this regard, Government expects to pass a new
pension law for the pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system with provisions, inter alia, for elimination of
early retirement categories except for a few very hazardous occupations, phasing in of later
"normal" retirement ages, a revised benefit formula satisfactory to the Bank, and establishment
of targets for the gradual reduction of payroll tax rates for pensions. Steps would also be taken
to enact legislation governing voluntary, private pension schemes and funded occupational
schemes and to strengthen Government's capacity for supervision of these schemes. Other
measures planned for the second phase would be to rescind some of the universal benefits of the
"Birth Promotion Act" and replace them with targeted, means-tested benefits for mothers and
children in need; cessation of unemployment assistance and employment subsidies paid with
respect to young workers and enactment of a youth minimum wage; and elimination of some
duplicative and/or poorly-conceived social assistance and active labor market programs.
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Objectives and Description
44.    The proposed quick-disbursing US$40 million Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan will
support the initial phases of the Government's stabilization and reform program (described in



- 13 -
part 11). The proceeds of the loan will help finance the immediate import of socially important
goods (e.g., medicines, wheat, fertilizer, seeds, agricultural chemicals, fuel oil etc.) which are
currently in very short supply, and whose immediate availability is crucial to improving -- or at
least preventing deterioration of -- the conditions facing Bulgarian households. These imports
will ease some of the immediate pressures confronting the Bulgarian public and help achieve
greater acceptance of the Government's economic policies, especially the far-reaching
stabilization and reform program to it is committed.
45.    Accordingly, a key result of the proposed loan is to enable the Government to visibly
demonstrate to the public the benefits of adopting and remaining on a reform course, as well as
directly helping to ensure the availability of selected commodities of vital importance to
Bulgarian households' survival and livelihoods. Given Bulgaria's history of political discord in
the post-transition period which has made achievement of economic reforms extremely difficult
for successive Governments, it is crucial that the program now agreed with the Bank, IMF and
other donors receives wide public acceptance to help ensure implementation of the difficult
macrostabilization and banking, enterprise and social protection reform measures which lie
ahead.
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy
46.    As noted previously, Bulgaria remains in the throes of a deep economic crisis, which has
severely affected real GDP, internal and external balances and household living conditions. The
crisis precipitated the collapse of the previous Government in February this year and led to the
installation of a new interim Government which has reached agreement with the IMF and the
Bank on an ambitious and comprehensive program of stabilization and structural reforms which
will dramatically improve the country's economic prospects when implemented. Additionally,
in an unprecedented step, all the country's major political parties have expressed support for the
program and signed a declaration stating their intention to work towards passage of all required
legislation, as soon as the new Parliament is in place follow ing the general elections scheduled
for April 19, 1997. The proposed loan would help maintain this support by alleviating some of
the immediate hardships being faced by the public (i.e., shortages of vital commodities), thereby
helping to strengthen public acceptance of the new Government's economic program.
47.    External support at this critical juncture of Bulgaria's transition will facilitate
enormously the adoption of difficult reforms and help pave the way for a more stable and
sustained level of economic activity. Without adequate external financing and support,
confidence will be undermined and the country could be severely constrained and unable to
pursue the reforms now being contemplated. It could also jeopardize Bulgaria's commitment to
remain current with all of its payments obligations.
48.    The Bank's primary objective noted in the April 1996 CAS remains essentially
unchanged -- i.e., to facilitate the country's transition to a market economy in order to achieve
long-term growth in a sustainable, non-inflationary environment. This approach is the most
appropriate strategy for achieving the ultimate objective of raising the living standards of
Bulgaria's people. To pursue these goals, the Bank's assistance is designed to focus on five
areas:



- 14 -
i)    facilitating the transition to a market economy and the expansion of private sector
activity through structural reforms, primarily enterprise reformn (especially
privatization) and banking reform;
ii)    supporting macroeconomic stabilization to lower inflation and sustain a viable balance-
of-payments position;
iii)   establishing financially viable and effective social sector policies and institutions,
including a credible social safety net;
iv)   rebuilding and rehabilitating Bulgaria's infrastructure and improving the environment;
and
v)    improving the effectiveness of Bank operations through improvements in public
administration and project identification and preparation.
49.   The Government's program is clearly aimed at furthering the first three objectives. The
proposed loan, by helping to build public confidence in the program, is also intended to further
these objectives, albeit indirectly. In addition, the proposed loan, through partially alleviating
shortages of some critical commodities needed by households for day-to-day living, goes some
way towards directly supporting the third objective.
Loan Administration
50.    Terms and Conditions. The proposed loan, in the amount of US$40 million equivalent,
would be made to the Republic of Bulgaria for a period of twenty years, including a five-year
grace period, at the Bank's single currency LIBOR based floating interest rates in US dollars.
51.   Disbursement and Procurement. The Loan will be disbursed in one tranche upon
effectiveness. It will finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures associated with the reform
program of the Government described in the Letter of Development Policy, except for items
specified in the negative list in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement. The total amount of the Loan
will be disbursed into a Ministry of Finance foreign exchange account with BNB especially set
up for this purpose.
52.   Accounts andAudit. BNB would maintain the account for the proposed Loan in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The Ministry of Finance will prepare a final
progress report on the progress of the program six months after the closing date of the loan and
submit the report to the Bank. The account and disbursements under the program may be
audited within six months from the end of the fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank within six months from the end of
the fiscal year.
53.   EnvironmentalAssessmentRequirements. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environment Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been
placed in category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.



- 15 -
Benefits and Risks
54.    Benefits. The support from this operation for the initial phase of the reform program
would assist the Government to introduce its ambitious macroeconomic stabilization and
restructuring programs by helping reduce shortages of key commodities affecting the day-to-day
lives of Bulgarian households. Timely implementation of the program is critical to arresting
(and reversing) the country's deep economic crisis and to the restoration of domestic and
international confidence in the country's economic management. The reform program is
designed to reduce macroeconomic instability and to address deep-seated structural problems in
the enterprise and banking sectors, while ensuring the availability of a sustainable, targeted
safety net for the most vulnerable population groups. The restructuring of the state enterprise
sector and the social protection system (especially old age pensions) would reduce fiscal deficits
and release resources to more productive purposes thereby enhancing overall economic growth.
Improved viability of the banking system would re-establish a framework in which the private
sector investment can flourish.
55.    Risks. Taking into account Bulgaria's history, there is always a risk that public protests
targeted at the entire reform effort or at specific measures will lead to political instability and,
consequently, a change in Government's commitment to forging ahead with crucial (but
nevertheless painful) reforms. This has occurred several times since the start of the transition in
Bulgaria, including most recently in late-1996 when the previous Government failed to carry
through in a timely manner on fundamental reforms agreed with the IFIs, thereby substantially
deepening the country's financial crisis and triggering the current broad, economic crisis. Three
factors do, however, suggest that there may be some reason to expect Bulgaria to remain
committed to the current agreed program: (i) the depth of the current economic recession has
meant more wide-spread understanding within the public of the need for reform; (ii) all the
major political parties in the country have publicly declared support for (or at least acceptance
of) the agreed program and its timely implementation; and (iii) the country is unlikely to receive
any major infusion of external funds from the IFIs and external donors until after the currency
board arrangement is in place and fundamental structural reforms are accomplished, providing an
incentive to keep the program on track.
56.    A second risk to timely implementation of structural reforms derives from the
Government's weak implementation capacity. The Government is cognizant of this risk and has
actively sought technical assistance from the Bank, IMF, EBRD, EU and USAID, among others,
to assis in SOE restructuring, financial sector reform and the design of social protection
programs. As described in paras. 79-81 below, substantial assistance is now being provided by
donors in each of these areas and should help reduce this risk.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
Bank's Assistance Strategy
57.    The Bank's assistance strategy for the 1997/early 1998 period derives from the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed with the Board in April 1996 and the April 1997 CAS
Progress Report and anticipates a phased approach for Bank support: (i) a first phase of technical
assistance from the Bank, the IMF and other donors to help Government design an adequate and
implementable macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program; (ii) a second phase



- 16 -
involving rapid small-scale financial support (i.e, this proposed loan of US$40 million), with no
net increase in exposure to the Bank, upon adoption of a sound program by the Government
(overall Bank commitments will not increase due to an agreement with Government to cancel
part of another loan which has been experiencing implementation problems); and, (iii) thirdly, a
move to the CAS's high case scenario with support provided for two one-tranche Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loans (FESALs I and II) plus a two-tranche Social Protection
Adjustment Loan (SPAL), totaling about US$250 million, upon actual implementation of key
reforms in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank. The first phase of this program is
now complete, with adoption by Government of a satisfactory program. The proposed Critical
Imports Rehabilitation Loan presented here constitutes Phase II and recognizes the immediate
need to reduce shortages of key socially-important commodities. Preparations for FESALs I and
II and the SPAL are underway and the operations will be presented to the Board after completion
of key reform measures.
58.   The Bank's assistance strategy is part of a concerted effort by the Bank, the IMF and
other official donors to help the Government of Bulgaria deal with the current economic crisis.
Both the IMF and European Union have pledged their support, and the IMF Board [approved] on
April 11, 1997 a package of support equivalent to about US$685 (at current exchange rates) for
1997-98, including both a 14-month stand-by arrangement and a drawing under the
Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF). Other donors, such as EBRD,
USAID, and EU are also supporting the Government's efforts to restructure, close or privatize
state enterprises, to reform the banking sector, and to provide a viable safety net for Bulgaria's
most vulnerable households.
Portfolio Implementation
59.    Bank commitments in Bulgaria total US$893 million as of March 31, 1997. The existing
lending portfolio in Bulgaria consists of ten projects in the amount of US$447.3 million. Total
cumulative disbursements for all Bank loans total $476 million of which $375 million were for
the SAL and the DDSR. Only $71 million of the investment loans have been disbursed leaving
an undisbursed balance of $376 million. Disbursements for FY96 total only US$15.7 million,
yielding a disbursement ratio of 5 percent. Improvement in portfolio performance is a CAS
condition for moving to the high case scenario for Bank lending to Bulgaria.
60.    All projects in the portfolio will continue to be affected by the current macro situation in
Bulgaria. It is therefore unlikely that we will see much improvement in the overall performance
of the portfolio in FY97. However, some progress has occurred since the CPPR in April 1996.
Power tariffs have been increased and a formula for automatic adjustments adopted. The Water
Companies Restructuring project has been modified and a portion of the loan (about US$41
million) was cancelled. The Bank has continued to press the Government for further action at
every occasion, but their attention is focused nearly exclusively on resolving the macro situation.
In this context, the shortage of counterpart funds is becoming a constraint to the smooth
implementation of several of our projects, particularly in the infrastructure and health sectors.
61.    With respect to meeting the benchmarks established under the CAS for portfolio
improvement, the situation is as follows. (i) improvement in the disbursement ratio to 8 percent
is expected to be reached by the end of FY97 since large contracts have been signed in two
projects which should lead to a substantial pick up in disbursements in the next few months. (ii)
improvement in project implementation (by reducing the number of unsatisfactory ratings from 4



- 17-
to 3 projects in FY97) is likely to be achieved through cancellation of the remaining portions of
two credit line operations whose performance has been consistently unsatisfactory due to the
banking crisis in Bulgaria.
Previous Adjustment Operations
62.    A structural adjustment loan (SAL) in Bulgaria was approved in August 1991 and
completed in October 1994. It was designed to support the ambitious and comprehensive
adjustment program initiated by a broad-based coalition government in February 1991. This
adjustment program was intended to reverse the severe economic deterioration--rising inflation,
declining GDP and growing extemal imbalances--that beset the country because of the political
changes that swept Bulgaria and the rest of eastem and central Europe in 1989. It was also
designed to help initiate the transition from a command economy to a market economy. The
SAL was part of a comprehensive package of international financial support for Bulgaria's
reform program. This support included an IMF stand-by arrangement and CCFF drawing and
substantial balance of payments support from the EU/G-24, which included US$375 million in
EU loan assistance and a US$100 million loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM)
as co-financing of the SAL.
63.    The outcome of the SAL was satisfactory. The economy was extensively liberalized. A
basic legal and institutional framework for a market economy was established. A legal and
institutional basis for transferring assets to the private sector was also established. Moreover,
significant assets transfer occurred through the restitution of urban properties and agricultural
land, although progress to date in the privatization of state enterprises is disappointing. External
imbalances were substantially reduced. Despite the favorable effect of the measures taken under
the SAL to reform the banking system and corporatize state enterprises, controlling fiscal and
quasi-fiscal deficits still remain a major challenge to policymakers. The Government's failure to
proceed with structural reforms in these key areas led to the present economic downturn, thereby
eventually reversing some of the gains derived from the operation.
64.    The Bank also extended a debt and debt service reduction loan (DDSR) to help the
government reduce its significant debt burden. This was achieved through three instruments: a
buyback option, a 30-year discount bond, and an 18-year front-loaded interest reduction bond.
The DDSR loan was designed to assist the government to finance a portion of the up-front costs
of US$715 million of the DDSR agreement. The Bank's loan of US$125 million was part of a
joint effort with the IMF and the government of the Netherlands. The IMF provided an
additional US$101 million to the DDSR agreement. The Government of Netherlands also
provided 15 million guilders (about US$8.6 million). Official support for the DDSR agreement
totaled about US$241 million, leaving US$474 million to be financed from Bulgaria's
international reserves. Implementation of the DDSR was satisfactory. It was fully disbursed in
one tranche in October 1994. The DDSR agreement was successfully completed in a relatively
short time and has largely achieved its immediate objectives. However, the window of
opportunity afforded by the loan to place Bulgaria's economy on a long term sustainable growth
path was not adequately utilized by the Government which, as previously mentioned, did not
pursue fundamental reforms in a timely manner.
65.   In August 1996, the Board approved a one-tranche rehabilitation loan to Bulgaria aimed
at facilitating and accelerating enterprise reform by partially addressing the immediate adverse
impact on workers laid off as a result of restructuring, privatization or liquidation of state



- 18 -
enterprises (through the provision of severance payments). The loan was disbursed in a single
tranche in November 1996 and counterpart funds used to set up a fund for the compensation of
displaced workers. Availability of the funds clearly did facilitate the closure of the 42 SOEs
which were liquidated in the latter part of 1996 (para. 10) and remaining funds will be used to
cover severance payments for workers still to be laid-off as SOE restructuring proceeds. In this
sense, the loan achieved its immediate objective of facilitating SOE reform, although it did not
accelerate the enterprise reform effort sufficiently enough to avert the escalation of the banking
crisis and the deep economic crisis in which the country is still mired.
Creditworthiness
66.    Despite the completion of the 1994 DDSR operation, Bulgaria's debt indicators and the
country's overall debt burden remains high. Total medium and long term debt at end-1996 was
estimated as US$9.2 billion (97 percent of GDP), compared to US$12.1 billion at end-1992 (143
percent of GDP). The debt service ratio constitutes one fifth of the country's export earnings.
Also, the debt-to-export ratio remains relatively high, about 151 percent at end- 1996.
67.    Medium term projections suggest a manageable debt service level--as long as the
Government proceeds with fundamental structural reforms and accelerates the process of
privatization. Under this scenario, the debt service as a percentage of export earnings (liquidity
ratio) would reach 15 percent by the end of the decade and would continue to fall further,
reaching 10 percent by the year 2005. These projected ratios are well below the 25 percent
threshold level for sustainability. The IBRD liquidity ratio is very small - about 1.0 percent in
1996, rising to 1.6 percent in 2000--and will remain under 1.6 percent for the next decade. With
the exception of the preferred creditor ratio which exceeds the Bank's guidelines of 35 percent
during the period 1999 to 2002, Bulgaria's exposure indicators would remain comfortably within
the Bank's guidelines. Overall, Bulgaria's creditworthiness has improved with the recent
improvement in the political environment and the recent changes in economic policy. However,
the country remains highly vulnerable to the risks of political instability, stalling of economic
reforms and a consequent shortfall in anticipated external support (paras. 47 and 55).
68.    A predictable but worrisome by-product of the DDSR operation is the highly inflexible
debt service, that persists over the medium term. Inflexible debt service payments constitute
about 75 percent of total debt service. Thus, if debt service difficulties do arise, options for
restructuring debt will be constrained. In any case, the likelihood of debt servicing difficulties to
the IBRD is relatively low. The IBRD debt service constitutes about 12 percent of total
inflexible debt service in 1997. This ratio is expected to rise to about 16 percent by end-2003.
However, the Government remains committed to its debt service payments.
Role of IFC, MIGA and FIAS
69.   IFC's objective in Bulgaria is to support the development of private sector activities in a
manner consistent with the World Bank's priorities in Bulgaria. In the past, IFC has pursued
potential projects in Bulgaria in the areas of agribusiness, infrastructure, tourism and capital
markets. However, owing to limited foreign direct investment, lack of investor confidence,
delays in large-scale privatization, and serious macroeconomic instability, the environment for
promoting private sector activities has been difficult. To date, IFC has approved four projects in
Bulgaria.



- 19-
70.   IFC's first investment in Bulgaria, the EuroMerchant Balkan Fund (IFC/R94-95), is a
regional investment fund. The Fund closed in December 1994 with a subscribed capital of
US$27.3 million, of which IFC has committed to invest up to US$5 million. So far, the Fund has
approved seven investments totaling US$13.1 million, of which four investments totaling
US$8.1 million are in Bulgaria.
71.   In May 1996, IFC approved a medium-term loan of US$3.5 million and an equity
investment of US$0.4 million in Interlease Inc. (IFC/R96-93). Interlease grants financial leases
for productive equipment to private companies.
72.   In August 1996, IFC approved an investment (US$1.8 million) through the Central
Europe Telecommunications Agency Line (CETAL) (IFC/R95-9) in Radio Telecommunications
Company Ltd. (RTC), a Bulgarian cellular telecommunications company. However, IFC has
recently canceled the CETAL line and will therefore not make an investment in RTC through
CETAL. Nevertheless, IFC is considering making a direct investment in RTC.
73.   In March 1997, IFC approved an investment in Sofia Hilton, a new 256 room first class
hotel to be constructed near the center of Sofia. IFC is providing US$22.3 million in long term
loans comprised of: (i) a senior "A" loan (for IFC's account) of up to US$10.8 million; (ii) a
senior "B" loan (for the account of participants) of up to US$9.5 million; and (iii) a subordinated
loan (for IFC's own account ) of up to US$2.0 million.
74.   The Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) has been assisting the Foreign
Investment Agency (FIA) in the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development. In FY94,
FIAS conducted a diagnostic study of the environment for foreign direct investment in Bulgaria.
This was followed in FY95 with technical discussions about the establishment of a national FDI
statistical system. In FY96, FIAS advised the Government on means of reducing obstacles to the
formation of joint ventures between foreign investors and state-owned enterprises.
75.   Bulgaria became a member of MIGA in 1992. MIGA has issued seven contracts of
guarantee for four projects in the manufacturing and financial sectors. More particularly,
MIGA's action in the financial sector involved the issuance of coverage to BNP bank for its
start-up equity investment in BNP-Dresdner Bank (Bulgaria), and to ING Bank for its
shareholder loan to its Bulgarian branch. In addition, MIGA issued guarantees for a small
investment in an industrial equipment dealership, and for Rovers investment in an auto assembly
project. To date, MIGA has registered six other projects in Bulgaria, representing an aggregate
potential investment amount of US$190 million. MIGA has also concluded a Legal Protection
Agreement and a Use of Local Currency Agreement with the Government of Bulgaria.
V. COORDINATION WITH OTHER MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS AND
OFFICIAL DONORS
76.   The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in assisting the Government to design the
macrostabilization and structural reforms program underlying the proposed loan. The IMF
Standby Arrangement is predicated on a successful program of structural reforms, supported by
the Bank. Conversely, Bank support requires a sound macroeconomic program, based on an
agreement reached with the Fund. The Fund is relying on the Bank to help the Government



- 20 -
implement its enterprise reform program and both institutions are providing technical support in
dealing with the current banking crisis.
77.   In addition, several other Multilateral Organizations and official donors have expressed
their readiness to mobilize additional resources to support the Government's structural reform
program. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the European
Investment Bank (EIB), the European Union (EU) and USAID are currently supporting major
investments in Bulgaria. The EBRD has been providing technical assistance in a
restructuring/recapilization operation in the banking sector and is ready to intervene directly as
an investor, once the banking sector reform program has been agreed and is under
implementation. Other donor support is of two kinds: technical assistance for enterprise
restructuring and social protection programs.
78.    Donor-assisted programs are already in place to provide technical support to the
enterprises affected by the Government reform program. EU-PHARE is ready to provide a
structural assistance reform package (MECU 15-20) in 1997 to provide grant funding in support
of the structural reforms to be financed under the IMF and World Bank programs. USAID
program has already provided approximately US$300,000 to finance support for closures of non-
viable enterprises or the restructuring of viable enterprises. An on-going USAID program for
US$7.0 million is available over several years to facilitate reforms in the banking sector and in
the privatization of SOEs. These funds could also be made available for the privatization of
banks once the program is underway. In developing the proposed program to support
implementation of the state economic enterprise reform the Bank has worked closely with the
Government and other donors, in particular EU-PHARE and USAID.
79.    Donors are also providing financing for social protection including social assistance,
labor market programs and pensions. Among the effforts underway are (i) an enhanced utility
voucher program targeted to poor households which is receiving EU support in the amount of 20
million ECU; (ii) USAID support of US$55 million for a small- and micro-enterprise
development credit fund; (iii) EU-PHARE support for small business assistance centers in two
cities with a plan for replication on four of five other locations; (iv) the ILO/UNDP and Dutch
Government provision of US$0.5 million to assist regional economic development and reduce
pressure in regions that are particularly affected b the Government's reform program; (v) USAID
provision of financing for an employment services and dislocated workers program; and (vi)
German Government, ILO, USAID and World Bank support for pension administration and
policy development.
80.    A Joint G24/Consultative Group Meeting was organized under the chairmanship of the
European Commission and the World Bank to seek international financial assistance to support
the government's Stabilization Program to be financed under the IMF Stand-By and the
introduction of the currency board. The meeting was successful in mobilizing donor support for
these objectives and pledged a total financial assistance package of about US$400 million
equivalent for 1997, excluding IMF and Bank support.



- 21 -
VI. RECOMMENDATION
81.    1 am satisfied that the proposed Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
April21, 1997






Annex I
BULGARJIA                         Page I of 8
CRITICAL IMPORTS REHABILITATION LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
April 21, 1997
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C., 20 433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
This Letter of Development Policy describes the efforts being made by the
Govemrnment of Bulgaria to deal with the deep economic crisis in the country and the
measures being taken to implement a stabilization and reform program aimed at re-
establishing economic growth and external viability. The program outlined in this letter
was developed by the current interim govemrnment, and has been discussed and agreed in
ppnnciple with the staff of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The
prograrn has also received the support of the political parties in the country, which signed
a joint declaration stating their willingness to work towards the passage of all laws
required for the success of the program, once the new Parliament is in place. Hence, the
program is expected to be filly pursued by the new govemmcnt once in office.
The objectives of the program are first to manage the emergency situation
prevailing in the country, and second to begin setting the basis for a broader program of
reforms to be pursued by the new govemment following the elections. The most pressing
needs, in the midst of the current crisis, is to secure sufficient critical imports, especially
of grains, medicine and fuel. As described below, the interim Govenirnent has already
taken some important measures to arrest the crisis. In this context, the Government of
Bulgaria is requesting the World Bank's financial assistance, in the form of this Critical
Imports Rehabilitation Loan, to support our efforts through the current crisis before our
initial policies begin to show results.



Annex I
Backgrsud                                                             Page 2 of 8
Bulgaria is the midst of a major economic crisis. The crisis was due to many
causes. but it can be attributed primarily to the failure by successive governments to
curtail the losses of state-owned enterprises and to prevent the continued fmancing of
these losses by the banking sector. The monetization of such losses eventually led to a
drastic decline in real money demand, a large outflow of capital, a sharp depreciation of
the domestic currency and galloping inflation. The depth of the financial crisis was
reflected in the recent economic performance: real GDP declined by an estimated 9
percent and foreign trade volumes fell by about 13 percent in 1996.
The social dimensions of the economic crisis became quite severe and contributed
to the poiitical changes that have recently taken place. The previous Cabinet resigned
primarily because of the growing dissatisfaction with the worsening economic conditions
and the inadequacy of economic poJicy  The political crisis was adroitly handled by the
President of the Republic, who dirccted the fornation of the interim Govermenrt, which
will remain in office until the newlv elected Government is formed, most likely in early
May.
RecentMeasures
The intenrm Government. upon taking office in February, has taken a series of
important measures to arrest the crisis and has begun to set the stage for a more
fundamental program of stabilization and structural reform. The first efforts have
concentrated on securing the wheat and fuel supplies of the country through emergency
imnports.
A fundanental cause of grain shortage was the price and other market controls
which the previous government had imposed on agriculture. Therefore, to allow this
market to start to work and make available supplies of grain and other agricultural
products. the Government has liberalized the wholesale prices domestic producers can
receive. The Government has also established by decree that it will sell the imports
domestically at USS160 per ton and maintain the price at least at 85 percent of the
comparative interrational prices. Until recently, the state entities were selling at 50
percent of intemational prices, thus undermining domestic producers of grain and leading
to smuggling of supplies across the borders.
To improve conditions in other critical areas of the economy and to deal with the
large problem of losses being incurred by the public utilities, the government has
increased substantially the prices of petroleum derivatives, electricity, coal, district
heating, public transportation, and water, bringing the prices to or close to international
levels and to cover costs (except for explicitly budgeted subsidies for district heating and
public transport). Along with the adjustment in the releconumunications tariffs in M4arch,
we have selected a privatization adviser for the privatization of Lhe Bulgarian
Telecommunications Company and we have announced our willingness to offer at least



Annex I
Page 3 of 8
50 percent of the shares of the company for saie. although the final decision will be made
on the basis of the recommendations of the privatization adviser following its analysis of
the maximum value that can be obtained. The Goverunent is also in the process of hiring
intemational privatization agents to handle the sale of at least 30 of the largest enterprises
in the country.
Finally, one of the most important actions taken by the interim Government has
been the adoption of an economic program that has received the support of the
International Financial Institutions (IFIs). The program was developed by several policy
working groups under the tutelage of the Financial Stabilization Council, headed by the
Prime Minister, and the Structural Reform Council, led by the Deputy Prime Minister
(also the Minister of industry). The main components of the program include: (i) the
adoption of a budget that eliminates the need for central bank credit; (ii) the introduction
of a currency board arrangement (CBA) in mid-1997; (iii) banking scctor reform.
including the privatization of state banks; (iv) enterprise sector reforms through closure of
non-viable state enterprises, an accelerated program  of privatization, cost cutting
measures. and tariff adjustrnent for public utilities; (v) price and trade liberalizationL
especially in the agricultural sector. along with land reform; and (vi) improvement of the
social safety net through a consolidation of programs and better targeting.
Macroeconumic Prgram
The most important element of the macroeconomic stabilization program will be
the introduction of a currency board arrangement. The objective of the currency board
arrangement is to introduce a credible arrangement that will reduce inflation by
eliminating discretion in monetary policy. Central to its success will be the enforcement
of financial discipline at the highest levels of the financial system with the expectation
that such discipline will permeate to the other levcls of the economy. We see the core
attaction of the currency board arrangement as a symbol of our commitment to lasting
stabilization and to lasting enforcement of hard budget constraints throughout the
economy. The arrangement will allow us to avoid repeating the history of early
stabilization gains being overtaken by ensuing laxity.
Fiscal Policy    To prepare for the currency board arrangement, we arc
implementing a budget for the remainder of 1997 that eliminates the need for central bank
credit. This will require an overall deficit of no more than 3.8 percent of GDP for the
consolidated government in 1997. as compared to an overall deficit of 10.9 percent of
GDP in 1996. rhe decline in the budget deficit is more than accounted for by the
projected decline in domestic interest payments.  Achievement of our financing
objectives will depend crucially upon privatization receipts.  An ambitious aad
strengthened privatization program will seek to ensure that the projected amounts of
privatization proceeds are forthcoming. Even so, Bulgaria still needs a considerable
amount of extemal financing.



Annex I
Page 4 of 8
The main initiatives to strengthen revenue coilections entail improvements in
many areas of tax administration. These include, in particular, establishing a large-
taxpayers' unit to closely track some 500 taxpayers that accournt for over 50 percent of
revenues, raising the VAT threshold and de-registering tax payers below that threshold to
reduce fraudulent refund claims. and increasing the penalties and interest on overdue tax
liabilities Controi of non-interest expenditures will be achieved primarily through a
rationalization of programs and a reduction in public employment by 10 percent of the
work force. In particular. the social safety net programs will be consolidated and better
targeted through improved means testing, and the level of subsidies. especially to
agriculture, have been set within strict limits.
Monetary Policy With the removal of the need to finance the budget, monctary
policy will be unburdened and efforts will be concentrated on preparing for the
introduction of the currency board arrangement. The central bank is winding down its
reverse repurchasing agreements on government securities. It has liberalized the basic
interest rate by linking it to the averagc yield in the auctions for 7 day treasury biUs. The
exchange rate will be managed so as to avoid a further appreciation of the currency from
the levels that prevailed in mid-March. Otherwise, until the introduction of the CBA.
monetary policy will be guided by monthly targets. especially those for central bank net
domestic assets.
Structural Reforms
Structural reforms are critical for the success of the government's program. We
recognize the importancc of establishing a fundamental break from past practices, and
have committed to introduce a significant program of reforms. The program focuses on
three important areas: privatization of state owned enterpnses and commercial banks,
liberalization of prices and trade, and reforming the social safety neL in order to provide
adequate protection for the most vulnerable segment of the population.
Enterprise Sector  Privatization and enterprise reform are at the core of the
structural progra.L  The govemment realizes the need to move aggressively with an
expanded privatization program for both budgetary and efficiency reasons. The fmancing
of the macroeconomic program for 1997 depends crucially on privatization proceeds. In
addition, the privatizauion program is key to the resumption of economic growth, to
attracting much needed foreign investment, and to improving corporate governance and
the efficiency of the enterprise sector in Bulgaria. It will also depoliticize markets and
the relationship bcnween banks and enrcrprises.
The targets for cash privatization for 1997 ranges between USS300 to US$350
million, with all received cash to be transferred to the budget. The completion of the cash
pnvauization along with the mass privaLizaTion program will mean that by the end of
1997, 40 percent of the long term assets of state-owned enterprises will have been sold.
In order to meet these targets, all state owned enterprises have been made available for
privatization, with the exception of a limited number of enterprises identified in a



Annex I
Page 5 of 8
negative list. Any offer received from a buyer automatically triggers the opening of the
privatization procedure. Thec responsibility for restructuring enterprises will be left to
their new prvate owners. The Government will focus on making the privatization
process competitive and transparent. Also, a special effort is being made to develop
public understanding of and support for our privatizaion policy.
Some of the state-owned enterprises cannot be privatized in the near future either
because they are incurring large losses, are not viable after the collapse of the CMEA
trading arrangement or because they are large public utilities. To deal with the acute
problem of state enterprise losses in these arcas, the Government is procceding on a two
track approach. We are closing down those enterprises that are not viable through the
process of bankruptcy procedures, and we are adjusting public utility tariffs in real terms
in order to cover their costs. Financial Recovery Plans have also been prepared for many
of these enterprise with the aim of reducing costs.
The Govemment is committed to eliminating the losses in the public enterprise
sector by closing down the loss-making enterprises. By mid-1997, the closure of
enterprises which contributed at least 28 percent of the SOE losses in 1995, will be
completed. Sale of their assets will be initiated immediately after the closure is effective.
In addition, those commercial enterprises which had been formerly placed in the
isolation program, and which have proved not to bc viable candidates for privatiza=ion.
will be put in liquidation.
To deal with the problem of losses being incurred by the public utilities, the
Government will maintain administered prices at levels that ensure cost recovery in each
sector. We have already adjusted the prices in the electricity, natural gas. liquid fuels,
water and teleconmunications sectors aiid no subsidies to thesc utilities will be
necessary. The administered prices for household heating and Lransportation are being
raised, but full cost recovery is not anticipated and subsidies to cover the gap have
already been included in the budget. In addition, the utilities will implement the
measures agreed under their restructunng plans in order to reduce their costs. Finally,
strict financial discipline will be imposed: utilities have been required to suspend service
to delinquent customers.
Banking Sector  The Governent is committed to taking a number of legal,
regulatory and policy measures to strengthen the banking sector and to boost confidence
in the credibility of convertibility under a currency board arrangement. We are convinced
that the privatization of the public sector banks to fit and proper investors is the surest
way to instill confidence and import sound banking practices.
All legislative and regulatory impediments to privatization of banks will be
removed. Foreign currency denomination of share capital will be permitted, and
urLrealized capital gains from asset revaluation will be exempted from taxation. We have
contracted an experienced privatization adviser for the Bank Consolidation Company, the
Government's bank holding agency, to carry out the preparalory work for and assist in



Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
the privanntion of public sector banks. We will announce in the intemational media the
Goverrnents intention to privatize public sector banks or to enter into management
contracts with reputable foreign banks, and will initiate an intensivc search for strategic
investors. We expect that by the end of 1997. at least two privatization transactions will
have been concluded, and two more banks will have entered into management contract
arrangements with reputable banks.
Although our expenrence shows that many of the private banks behaved
irresponsibly owing to moral hazard, we agree that Lhe lcsson from the crisis is that only
honafide bankers should be licensed, that private owners of banks must put in sufficient
cash as capital, and that supervision must be prompt and vigorous. To this end, we will
amend the relevant banking laws and regulations to rationalize bank licensing, penalties
for regulatory non-compliance, and to provide independent authority to the Deputy
Govemor of the central banak responsible for banking supervision. Capital adequacy
requirement will be tightened, with all banks achieving a capital adequacy ratio of at least
12% by mid-1999. To improve the effectiveness of banking supervision. a number of
resident foreign banking supervisors will be contracted and joint on-site inspection teams
will be formed. A new Law of Bank Insolvency is to be passed to facilitate the closure of
insolvent banks.
In the near term, the Government will ensure that no insolvent or illiquid banks
will be operating at the time of the introduction of the currency board arrangement. rf
any state owned bank currently experiencing difficulties requires recapitalization to meet
the liquidity and solvency standards, this will be done without resort to central bank
financing, and only in the context of the privatization of the bank, or of its enlering into a
management contract with a foreign bank. To enhance the liquidity of banks' assets.
restrictions on the trading of ZUNK bonds (originally issued to recapitalize banks) have
been reduced, and are to be gradually eliminated.
Agricultural Sector In the agricultural sector, the Government recognizes the
urgent need to proceed rapidly with the liberalization of the sector and to accelerate the
land reform and titling in order to improve the prospects for increased production. The
main policy objectives are to create a competitive market-based and export-oriented
agriculture and food industry. To achieve these goals it will be essential over time to
remove a number of barriers faced by the sector, such as price controls, profit margin
controls, trade restrictions, poor land titling, and the dominating presence of state
controlled institutions and reserves.
As noted above. the Government has already liberalized the wholesale prices of
wheat and other agricultural products. In the area of pricing and trade policy. the
Government will eliminate the system of controls on profit margins of agricultural and
food products. and eliminate import quota and duties on cereals and cereal products, by
end-May. By mid-1997, the Govemment will eliminate all export bans (with no export
tax to be introduccd) and liberalize fully the prices of cereals and cereal products, remove
any non-tariff barriers against the import and export of agriculturai inputs such as



Annex I
Page 7 of 8
fertilizers, and abolish any direct and indirect subsidies to prices of wheat. wheat flour,
bread and other cereal products. This should re-establish farmers' confidence that for the
next crop they will be able to receive comparable export market prices. To promote
foreign trade, we also plan to eliminatc import and export adnministrative constraints such
as licensing/registration, with a few exceptions including ex ante licensing for healLh and
safety reasons. and ex post licensing for statistical purposes.
Due to the critical Jack of supplies of cereals and cereal products brought on by
the policies of the prcvious Government (along with adverse weather conditions). the
current Government has had to arrange, on an emergency basis, for the purchase of wheat
and wheat products this spring. It is anticipated that a toLal of perhaps 450.000 tons of
whcat or wheat flour will need to be imported under these conditions, with a total value
of roughly $80 million. This whcat is being purchased largely through competitive
bidding procedures, which have been worked out with the World Bank, or tlrough
bilateral arrangements with other Governments. The domestic sale of this wheat will be
at a price of $160 per ton, or at least 85% of intemational equivalent prices (up from only
50% previously), but in the future, and as part of the liberalization of domestic prices for
agricultural products described above, the Governrnent intends to use auction procedures
for the sale of such commodities.
The liberalization of agriculture will be accompanied by the legal changes that
will reduce complex regulations and will facilitate leasing arrangements. titling, and
occupation rights. The ban on foreign ownership of land will be revised. Additionally,
the Govemnment is committed to promoting competition by privatizing all state mills and
the 26 state trading companies by end- 1997.
Social Protection   The structural reform program, and in particular enterprise
restructuring, tariff adjustments and price increases, will adversely impact the
socioeconomic status of many groups, especially the relatively poor. The Government is
committed to reforming its social protection programs to ensure an adequate safety net
for the population with the following aims: i) ensuring adequate protection of the most
vulnerable groups through improved targeting and setting of meaningful bcnefit levels, ii)
ensuring the mediumn- and longer-run fiscal sustainability of the social protection system;
iii) and increasing fiscal transparency and substantially reducing duplication and
fragmentation among overlapping social protection programs.
T1he most direct short-term measures will address [he recent erosion of rcal
incomes as a result of high inflation by progressively increasing the average wage in the
budget sector from US $20 to US$65 and average pensions from US$10 to US$34 by the
second half of 1997. In addition. severance payments to workers laid-off from the
enterprise sector will be continued with adequate provisions in the budgeLt and expanded
to cover redundancies in the budget sector.
Longer term measures are aimed at improving the targeting, effectiveness and
sustainability of the social protection system. In the next few months we will, inter alia.



Annex I
Page 8 of 8
establish a better largeted, consoiidated, and adcquately funrdecd two-tier ininimum income
programn (MlGP'); aid improve tageting of chlild killowanccs, medical support programs
and ireltemity assistulncc to uninsured iuothers. In order to incrcase fiscal transparency,
sustainabiliLy and targeting of the pcisiun system. the GCoverluncmt will prepare u I1cw
pension law for thc pay. as-you-gu (PAYO) plnsion system, witli prcivisions to clininate
nmost curly retirement categorics, phase itn lhigher rctirement agc,s revise the; benetl
formula, and aesablish targets ior the gr4dual rcduction of pensiow Laxes. Additioially, to
raduoe employment disiwiulLivcs and labor mlariket distortions futhier. thc Ciovernmcnt
will decrease payroll taxces ior uncnployment fromii 5 to 3 percent.
Concluji1
Thc (uovurnment of Bulgaria believes that thc economic program  being
introduced is anmbitious and comprehensive. It rcpresents an attenmpi to break with thc
past policy patlerns, whichi have beci hesitant and limliited. Wc are conlident that the
proLgram will bc carried out according to the timnctable outlined by the (Government in its
discussions with thc IFJs.
=1o support the initlal piluse of the stabilization and reform program as desciibed
above, the CGovcrmlnenit requests the World Banik's financial assistance, in the form ol
this Critical limports Rehabilitation Loan. 'flic proceeds of the loan will support our 1997
budget and facilitate the irnucdiate import of socially important goods (such as,
medicines, agricultural inputs, wheat, fuel oil, etc.) wliich aru currently in very short
supply.  The availability of such goods will easc some of the immcdiate pressures
confronting the liulgarian population. Tlc 1997 consolidaLted general government budget
makes  explicit provision  for procurement of these  critical socially  inipoutanti
conumcodifics.  At least $22 million equivalent haS beci allocated in the budget for
purchlascs of IiulvicilneS, including essential drugs and vtccincs, and about $20 milliorn
equivalent will Ne used to clear past arrcars. This will ensure suificienlt flows of nlew
supplics to iieet hospital and clinic requirements, anid all necessary adnmiinistrative steps
will he takeln to ensute lthe medical supplies arc in flact provided to the hospitals and
cliiics.  We also intend to achievc greater cfficiencv in tlec purcliase of all these
collirriodities and mcdicines dirough the use of cosL eifectivc and iranisparclt procuremncit
procedures.
Sinicerely yours.
Svetuslav (iavriisky
Ministei ofrFinzwic:
Republic c-f BuIguJit



Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
BULGARIA: CRITICAL IMPORTS REHABILITATION LOAN
Government's Action Plan
POLICY AREA    | OBJECTIVES                                    MEASURES TAKEN                                FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS
I.  Macroeconomic         Re-establish macroeconomic stability    A program of measures to stabilize the economy,  Maintain a sustainable fiscal and external
Program               and restore economic growth.          arrest the decline in confidence and accelerate    positions
the process of reforrns was agreed with the IMF
in March 1997.
a)  Fiscal Policy      - Reduce budget deficit from 11 % of                                                 - Accelerate cash privatization.
GDP in 1996 to 3.8% in 1997 and                                                  - Strengthen revenue collection by establishing a
eliminate the need for central bank                                                 large-taxpayers unit, raising VAT threshold, and
credit.                                                                             increase penalties and interest on overdue tax
liabilities.
- Control non-interest expenditure by rationalizing
programs and reducing public employment by 10
percent of work force.
b) Monetary &          - Restore confidence in the domestic    - Linked the determination of basic Central Bank  - Establish a currency board arrangement.
Exchange Rate         currency and lower the rate of         interest rate to the market yields of TBills.
Policies              inflation.                         - Eliminated unsecured refinancing to weak
banks.
- Observed strict limits on the creation of net
domestic assets.
II. Enterprise Reform     Accelerate privatization and strengthen
financial discipline in SOEs.
a)  Privatization      - Accelerate drastically the privatization - Privatized 5 percent of the state owned assets   - Privatize SOEs accounting for at least 40 percent
of SOEs to transfer ownership,       through cash-based programs and another 13     of total SOE long term assets (as of December
governance and management            percent through voucher based programs.        1995) by end 1997.
responsibilities to private operators.   - International privatization agent appointed for   - Offer for sale BTC.
This is the overriding priority of the  the privatization of BTC.
program.
b) Liquidation         - Reduce upfront 28 percent of the SOE - Closed 30 and privatized 11 out of the original  - Close or privatize by mid-1997 enterprises that
sector losses in 1995.                list of 64 SOEs.                              contributed at least 28% of SOE losses in 1995.
- Effective sale by end-1997 of at least 50% of the
l______________________________________________  long  term     assets  of the  closed  enterprises.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
POLICY AREA              OBJECTIVES                             MEASURES TAKEN                                 FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS
c)  Isolation           - Reduce upfront 50 percent of the SOE - Isolated the enterprises from the banking   - Approve and implement Financial Recovery
sector losses in 1995.                system.                                        Plans.
- Prepared Financial Recovery Plans.           - Privatize or liquidate all enterprises which are
- Increased administered prices of water, coal,   not utilities or mines.
heating for industries, electricity, natural gas,  - Maintain revenues of the utilities (including
liquid fuels, and telecommunications to cover  budgeted subsidies) to cover at a minimum their
costs.                                         operating and financial expenses.
- Increased prices of household heating and
transportation and budgeted subsidies.
d) Financial Discipline  - Restore financial discipline and ensure                                           - Require utilities to suspend service to enterprises
that utilities are effectively collecting                                            in arrears.
their accounts receivable.
III. Banking Sector       Re-establish the soundness of the
Reforms                   banking system through a program of
privatization and strengthening the role
of regulation and supervision.
a)  Legal and regulatory - Strengthen the legal and regulatory                                               - Amend the Law on Banks and Credit Activity;
framework              framework to facilitate privatization                                                 Enact a Law on Bank Insolvency.
and promote sound banking practices.                                              - Amend the Commercial Code, the Tax Law and
related laws/regulations to facilitate foreign
investment in the banking sector.
- Raise the requirement of capital adequacy to
12% and revise other banking regulations to
reflect international standards.
- Introduce international bank accounting standards
(IAS) and disclosure standards, and start
implementation.
- Enact a new Deposit Insurance Law acceptable
to the Bank/IMF.
b) Banking supervision  - Enhance BNB's authority and         - Signed Memorandum of Understanding with 18  - Contract four residential international banking
effectiveness in enforcing the legal  banks which outlined targets for loan recovery  supervisors and form joint on-site inspection
and regulatory framework.             and cost cutting measures.                     teams.
- Placed 15 banks in conservatorship and filed for - Adopt a banking supervision program acceptable
l________________________  ______________________________________   bankruptcy against these banks.                to the Bank/IMF and initiate its implementation.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
POLICY AREA    | OBJECTIVES                                     MEASURES TAKEN                                 FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS
c)  Privatization of       - Improve the governance of the PSBs  - Adopted a privatization strategy for BCC.     - Announce in the international media the
public sector          by changing their ownership and/or   - Appointed privatization adviser to BCC.        Government's intention to privatize all PSBs or
banks (PSBs).          control.                            - Started due diligence review.                   to enter into management contracts with
reputable banks. Initiate an intensive search for
strategic investors.
- Conclude by end-1997 four transactions, of
which at least two are privatizations.
IV. Agricultural Sector    Create a compehtive market-based and
Liberalization            export-oriented agriculture andfood
industry.
- Increased the sale price of wheat by state   - Eliminate the system of controls on profit
entities to $160 per ton, and maintain the price  margins of agricultural and food products by
at at least 85% of international price CIF Sofia.    end-May.
- Started using competitive bidding procedures    - Eliminate by end-May import quota and duties
for the emergency Government purchases of      on cereals and cereal products.
wheat this spring.                         - Eliminate all export bans by mid-1997 (no export
tax to be introduced).
- Liberalize the sale prices of cereals and other
cereal products by mid-1997.
- Remove non-tariff barriers against import and
export of fertilizers by mid-1997.
- Abolish any direct or indirect subsidies to prices
of wheat, wheat flour, bread and other cereal
products by mid-1997.
- Eliminate import and export administrative
constraints.
- Use open and transparent auctions for the sale of
Govermnent-procured supplies of cereals.
-Submit a new law to Parliament in July to
facilitate privatization of state-owned land,
revamp the regulations for leasing, titling, and
occupation rights, and revise the ban on foreign
land ownership.
- Offer for sale all state mills and the 26 state
trading companies by end-1997.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
POLICY AREA          |   OBJECTIVES                         |   MEASURES TAKEN                                 FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS
V. Social Protection      Increase effectiveness, efficiency,
Reform                    transparency and sustainability of social
protection programs
Assistance       Improve targeting of programs to   -  Revised benefit coefficients to increase    -  Establish a consolidated two-tier MIGP (utility
a)  Socia  sslstane        provide adequate protection to        assistance to children in poor households       voucher and cash benefit)
vulnerable groups at affordable cost.  supported by the minimum income guarantee    -  Set up matching fund scheme for MIGP
program (MIGP)                             -  Improve targeting of child allowances, medical
- Set up temporary utility voucher program for    support programs and maternity assistance.
poor households and benefit ievels raised since   - Eliminate payment of untargeted social
3/97                                           assistance through insurance funds
-  Provide sufficient quality of social    -  Augmented temporarily resources for social    - Involve NGOs in services and recentralize
care services                         care institutions via EU supplement.           financing for intermunicipal institutions.
b)  Severance Pay      -  Protect workers laid-off under      -  Introduced severance benefit scheme for laid-   -  Extend program to cover budgetary sector
structural reform program             off SOE workers                                employees
c)  Pensions           -  Increase fiscal transparency,       -  Separated pension fund from budget          -  Establish one-month reserve fund for PAYG
sustainabilitv and targeting of the  -  Made legal provision for transparent budget  pension scheme
pension system                        subsidy for non-insurance expenses          -  Comply with legal provision for budget subsidy
-  Adopted program for improved payroll tax       to cover non-insurance expenses
administration and tracking of individual  -  Cease financing of recreational facilities
records.                                   -  Enact new  PAYG pension law to:
-  Changed benefit formula to require extended    (a)  eliminate most early-retirement categories
contribution period for full pension          (b) phase in later pensionable age
-  Raised mandatory retirement age by 3 years     (c)  introduce actuarially sound benefit formula
-  Introduced employee contribution.              (d) establish targets for gradual reduction of
pension payroll taxes
- Prepare legislation for voluntary, private
pension and funded occupational schemes.
d)  Unemployment                                              -  Reduced unemployment fund payroll tax from   -  Further reduce payroll tax rate from 5% to 3%
7% to 5%                                   -  extend contribution period for benefit eligibility
- change the benefit formula to reduce work
disincentives.
- eliminate ineffective active labor programs and
strengthen job information services.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
POLICY AREA              1OBJECTIVES                             MEASURES TAKEN                             |_FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS
e)  Supply of medicines -  Ensure adequate supplies in 1997 of  -  Made adequate budgetary allocation to clear    -  Take all necessary administrative steps to ensure
medicines to hospitals and clinics.    arrears of Government to domestic              that medical supplies are in fact provided to
pharmaceutical suppliers (approximately $20    hospitals and clinics.
million equivalent) and to ensure adequate
purchase of supplies in 1997 (at least $22
million equivalent).
April 15, 1997






Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Bulgaria at a glance
POVErTY and SOCIAL                                            Cenral&  mkddle-
Bulgaria    AIsl  Income        Development diamond'
Population mid-190 (nilWon)                             84       48&     1,154
GNP per capIta 19M  (USS)                             1,340    2,240      13700                 Life especlancy
GNP 1906 (bnA*USI)                                      liz     1,003     1,961
Averag annual growth, 111110046111
Population M_)                                         .0.7       0.411     1.4
Iabofoce M)                                             4.8.      O.'s              GNP                1vGross
Most rewt OdWMe 05AW availale 3tnc 1090)per                                                    pdmary
Most recent estimate  ata.t~~uerawllahde s/nce 1909)           capita                       enrollment
POvedTi* headoorut htAr (Kofpoputation):
Urban popuAltiont (K atot  paWp-li)                      71                 s
Uto c dny et blt*j"ar)                                   7          8
Ifian Morlstty roOO.:  #  birts)                        1S       :23       3                  Acs osf  ae
dhorndmalutition (K o(clikien wnder5)                                                           cnet  af  ae
Accees to softewed(w d% popule#nj)                      1078
Illieracy (K dtpcou/en wge 164)
Gross prImawy enrollmnwt (K of achoo-age populatIon)     as        97      104           _BuVarla
417      97       1106              Lower-mkkioe-lcome grop
Female                                                 84        97      101      _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _
KE-Y coNOI RAtIO and LONG-TERM YTRENDS
1971     1966      1904     191016
GOP (bJllions IJSS)                ..    ~~~~~~~17.4  9.7    12.9       cnmcrto
Grows domnestic InvesmertlP.                           32.21     14.2      15.4
Export ofooods and non-folor serAices/op                42.8     48.9      52.4               Openness of ecmonory
Grous domestic sw&avig/O                         .      18       1.        17.0
Gross national savbngs/GP                        ..    31.8      13.1      15.3:
Curent acoount bellance/GOP                      .        ..     -2.11   .0.50
litifere paylmentsGO                                     1.       4.                SainsInetmA
Tatal debt/G1p                                   .     21.0    102.1       74.3     Saigkwsmn
Total etavofsot of oNPS                                 09.      161.8    21.8
Prenvakluofdebt/es"Ars                       .         .    181.0
Indebtedness
1964 106646      1904     1966  16604
GOP                      ..     -2*        I~ ~~~~~         ~~~A 2.0  82    -Bulgadas
GNW per capita                         .       2.2       1.7      0.3        ..Lower-mkkile4lcomne grop
E  Cptt   goods  NW  nfs            ..    -21.0       75S      7.0      8.:_ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                      ~ ~~~~~1976  1966    1904      199:i     Growth rkats of output and Investment(%
AgrIculture                                     ..      11 9     10.9      10.9     20
Industry                                                62.5     32.5      3147     10
Matnufacturinga
Servicses                                              25.6      56.6      574      .10                                  9
.20
Private consumption                              .     50.8      79.0      68.4    130
General government consumption                  ..      8.5      16.1      13.8     4
Imports of goods and non-factor services        ..     43.2      53.5      50.9              -GDI            -GDP
(aveage annual growth)                     1976-84  1984         1904     1096      Growth rates of expor'ts and Imports %
Agriculture                                     ..      -1.3      4.0       3.0     20
Indus"r                                          .      -4.9     -4.0       0.0      0
Manufacturing                                 ..20 .                        .go    9                        3a
Services                                         ..     0.0       6.8       3      .2
Privte consumption                               ..     -5.2     -8.0      -1 5     4
General governmen consumption                   ..       7.8    -1 1.8     -1.4    -6
Gross domesic Investment                        ..      -7.8     11.4       2.5    .so
Imports or goods and nion-factor services       ..     -24.9     -9.9     -1 3                  Eprz        - mot
Gross national product                          ..      -2.9      1.3       0 0
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonids show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Rts income-group average. If data are missing, fte diamond will
be incomnplete.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Bulgaria
PPICES and GOVERNMENT PMANCE
1976     1986     1964      196       Id 6}
Domesfc priek
(% Chn)                                                                          250     
Consumerpric                                  ..       ..    96.0       82.6 
implicl GDP deabr                              ..     0.2      72.3     63.6    150
osavnment lfnnce                                                                 5a
(% oGf ) G                                                                           _'
Cumrrwn nue                                    ..    55.2      41.8     36.0             9    SI   92    0       54   5
Current budgt blance                          ..        .GOP d
Ova  urpl                                      ..      ..    -6.4       -5.7
TRADE
(milon' US$)                                1975     198      1 19      199 Ipo* i     nd S d IMM pon levels (mnll. UU)
Total esot (fob)                               ..  10,668     3.035     544S
MeX X                                              2,125    1,060    1,145
Ohsragriculure                               ..   1,791    1,135    1,266        ooa
Manufadures                                  ..       0         ..       ..     apo
TOt Iports (CM)                                    11,196    3.952      5224      4                  ,  
Food                                         ..     545       60      1.189
Fuel andeonwrg                                     2.217      972    1.29       2.00
CapIta  goods                                ..    4.532    1,142     1.521           _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Expot ptce Index (1987m100)                    ..     112       96       103                 00   t  9z2  93  g4 o5
knportelpcelndex(1987u100)                    ..       66      132       141                ncEports      nlmpors
Twms o(tbe (197aI100)                         ..      169       73        73
BLANCE of PAYMIETS
1978     136      19"      1s"
(aNions US$)                                                                     Currant account balance to BIDP rafto(%
Exports of goods, ad non-fcto service.s.   11.761    4,757             6774       a                                 
kmports of good and noncloraervcee            ..  11.872    5,198       6496         so   U  n 531
Resource baance                               ..    -112       -441      278     .2
Not alcorillCOe                                ..    -101       64      -469      4.
Na curnrd  bt,                                 ..      74      174       132     J1.i
Curren account balanc,
beoreoikcl tnsfes                                            -202      -59
Fnancng Ht   (not)                                             249      307    410 
Chane In net resvs                                   -423      -47      -248    "1
Akwno:
Resrve Including gold (amN USS)                               1297     1545
Com  wsUonrat PocakVSS)                               1.9      53.7     67.1
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1166     Is"       1336
(mIons USS)                                1976                                              of td91 da. IU5 (ntL US$)
Toal dei oubalndr and disbued                20    3,852      9962     9597
IBRO                                        0         0      399      414
IDA                                         0         0        0        0                     k 5414
Total d   service                              2    1,178      760      903                              C 720
NMRD                                        0         0       15       31                1/"4)    o
IDA                                         0         0        0        0                f     I     /
Coeosition dof not resource Noa
Offl Wgrants                                 0        0      102       6S                1                  E t5M
Offical crdors                              0        74      281        14
Privt cradtors                               1      81i7    -487      -139
Foregn dkred imeetnw                        0         0      105       135          F6044
Portfllo *qu y                              0         0        6        5
World Dank progmm
Commitents                                 0         0      175       193       1R0                       E-  _at
DOnbur5   ft5                               0         0      246        1S     B-IDA     D O  aOl svi_e     P dPF-
PrIncIal rpayments                          0         0        0        0      C -IMF                      G - Shaot.hm
Not lws                                     0         0      246       1S
iAnreatpeykent                              0         0       15       31
Nit _asrs                                   0         0      231       -16
Itrnatn  Econmc Dprtment                                                                                           497



Annex 4
Bulgaria                                                Page I of 2
Most Same region/income group       Next
Latest single year       recent     Europe  Clower-          higher
E nit of                                 estimate   & Central     middle-     income
lIndicator                                   measure           1970-75     1980-85     1988-93        Asia      income       group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                          local curr.              ..
Headcount index                            % of pop.                ..
Lower poverty line                          local curr.
Headcount index                            ' of pop.                ..          ..          ..
GNP per capita                                 USS                   ..       1.990       1.140       2.450       1.590       4.350
SHORT TERNI INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                       local curr.              ..          ..          ..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural terms of trade                                                 ..          ..
Consumer price index                        1987=100                 ..          ..          ..
Lower income                                                                    ..
Food'                                                                          96         424
Urban
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services  % of GDP                            ..         6.3          ..          ..
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary                                  % school age pop.          99         102          90           ..         104         105
Nlale                                          "                   99         103          91
Female                                                             99         102          88
NMorality
Infant mortality                       per thou. live births     26.0         18.0        14.0       24.8         39 0        35 S
Under 5 mornality                                                  ..          ..         19.0       36.4         61.5        42 6
Imrnunization
Mleasles                                  % age group              ..        99.0        97.0                     77.6        820
DPT                                                                 ..       99 0        99 0           ..        82 2        74 2
Child malnutrition (under-5)
Life expectancy
Total                                        years                 71          71          71          69          67           69
Female advantage                                                  5.2          5.8         7.1         8.8         5.9         5.9
Total fertility rate                     births per woman           2.2         2.0         1.5         2.1         2.9         2.9
Maternal mortality rate                per 100,000 live births       ..         22           ..
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security         % of total gov't exp.        ..         ..        32.4
Social security coverage                % econ. active pop.          ..          ..          ..
Access to safe water: total                 % of pop.                ..          ..       100.0          ..          ..        86.7
Urban                                                                          ..      100.0                                93.9
Rural                                                              .          ..       100.0          ..          ..        66.7
Access to health care                                                ..       100.0       100.0
Population growth rate                  GNP per capita growth rate                     Development diamondb
(annual average. perent)                    (annual average, percent)                      Life expeancy
6l                                                   (ana avrae percent)erolren
4-                                           5
GNP                              Gross
21  *- . ..*           0                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per      primary
capita               ~~~~~enrollment
-2                                          -101
1970-75     1980-85      1988-93              1970-75    1980-85     1988-93                Access to safe water
[I  Bulgaria                                                                                  _   Bulgaria
Lower-middle-income                                                                          Lower-middlc-income
a Sce the technical notes, p.387. b. The development diamond. based on four key indicators, shows the average level of development in the country
coiip;arCd with its; incoine group. See the introduction.



Anniex 4
Bulgaria                                                    Page 2 of 2
Most Same region/income group          Nerf
Latest single_year __      recent      Europ-e-__Lo'7&i           higher
Un it of                                    estimate   & Central      middle-      income
fIndicator                                     mneasure            1970-75      1980-85      1988-93         Asia      income         group
Resources and Expenditures
HUNIAN RESOURCES
Population (mre=1993)                          thousands              8.722        8.960        8.870     494.619    1.096.665       500,507
A.ge dependencv ratio                            ratio                 0 49         0.48         0.49         0.57         0 69         0.62
Urban                                          %c of pop.              57.5         84.5         69.5         64.8         54.,7        71 2
Population Lro%% th rate                        annual %0.5                          0 2          -0 4         0.6          1 6          1.7
Urban                                             '2.5                              1.3          0.5          1.5          2.9          1.8
Labor force (15-64)                            thousands              4.496        4,483        4.500     237.897      459.196       190,136
Agriculture                                 %l of labor force            27           18            .
Industry                                                                 42           45            .
Female                                              '46                               46           47          47           31            29
Fenmales pe r 1 00 males
Urbani                                         nunmber                  96          100
Rural                                                                  105          100 
N'ATUR-AL RESOURCE-S
Area                                          thou. sq. km           110 91       110.91       110.91    24.320.56   40.6S2.67    21,848.14
Density                                      pop. per sq. kni         78.64        80.79        80.26        20.20        26.52        22.51I
A.-rcultural land                            %7 of land area          53.87        5-5.80       55.67            ..       39.61        41.26
Change in agricultural land                     annual %7             -1 37        .0.05        .0.11        -1.28        -0 13         0,08
Agricultural land under irrigation                %7                  18.94        19.92        20.10         7 15        12 66         8.84
Forests and %xoodland                         thou. sq. km                          0.04         0 04         0.80        5i.95         8,04
Deforestation (net)                             annual %                                .       -0 22
INCOME
Household income
Shiare of top 20% of households              %7 of- income                            .36
Share of bottom 40%7 of households                                                   ..24
Share of bottom 20% of household.s                                                   ..10
EXPEND)ITURE
Food                                           %rof GDP                                .17.0
Staples                                                                                          1.8
Meat. fish, milk, cheese, eggs                                                        .8 2
Cereal imnports                            thou. metric tonnes          665        1.792          241       34.452      66.281        48.947
Food aid in cereals                                                       .            .200                 4.392        5.477          544
Food production per capita                     1987 =100                 95           92           75            ..101                   102
Fertiliter consumption                           kg/ha                114.0        140.1         46.7         41.7         48.0         67.8
Share of agriculture in GDP                    %of GDP                    ..        11.9         13.0         13.5         15.7          8.0
Housing                                        %7cof GDP                  ...6.7                               6.0
A% erage hou-.hold size                   persons per household         3.].
Urban                                                                  3.0...
Fixed irnestment: housing                      %of GDP                    ...1.1                               5.2-
Fuel and power                                 % ofGDP                   L...18                                1.2
Energy consumption per capita                kg of oil equiv.         2.662        3.410        1.954       2.959         1.595        1.632
Households with electricity
Urban                                      % of households               .            ..
Rural
Transport and communication                    % of GDP                   ...7.0
Fixed investment: transport equipment                                     .                       2.7
Total road length                              thou. km                   ..38                     37
INVESTMENT IN I{UMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                        persons                 537          276         318          362        3.277
Population per nurse                               .1239                             155            ..249
Population per hospital bed                                             129           90          104         136          604          395
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)            % of cases                             ..-                        .            .S
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                                 % of school-age pop.           89          102          71            --53                      53
Femnale                                                                 ..102                    73
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary                pupils per teacher           20           18           14           .             .25
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                           13           17           13
Pupils reaching grade 4                       % of cohort               96           95           95
Repeater rate: primary                      % of total enroll             2            2            3
Illiteracy                                % of pop. (age 15+)             .            ..                       5           19            14
Female                                   % of fem. (age 15+)             ...                       ..                        .17
Newspaper circulation                        per thou, pop.             232          293          164           ..74                     125
World Bank international Economieis Department. April 199%



Annex 5
Bulgaria                                                       Page I of 2
Crkial Impo1f Rehabiawios Loan
Natinl Accou
actual                                                           Proiection
1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995      1996       1997       199       1999      2000
A. In Curmnt Prices (bil. LCUs)
GDP atmarketprkee                    45.4      135.7     200.8      298.9     522.2      867.7    1687.1   20758.8   28866.9   33113.5   37535.9
Net IndirectTaxes                   -1.9        5.9      12.1       14.6      49.7       96.3     192.0    2387.3    3357.2    3894.2    4463.0
ODP atPactorCost                    47.3      129.8     188.7      284.3     472.6     771.4    1495.1   18371.5   25509.7   29219.4   33072.8
Agncultuhr                         8.1       19.6      24.2       31.8      52.9       85.2     164.1    2061.2    2760.6    3120.8    3503.6
Indu-try                          23.3       50.7      81.3      104.6     179.2      291.4     564.2    6964.0    9619.9   11035.1   12448.7
of which Manufacturing            NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA
Services                           14.1      65.4      95.4      162.5     290.1      491.1     958.8   11733.6   16486.4   18957.6   21583.6
Resource Balance                     -1.6       10.4      -7.2      -25.5     -23.7       18.7      44.6      459.7     483.1      616.9     662.9
Impors (ONFS)                       16.7       54.4     124.5      160.7     279.3     436.3    1044.9   11770.9   12958.9   13795.1   14717.4
Expons (GNFS)                       15.0       64.8     117.3      135.2     255.6     455.0    1089.5   12230.6   13442.0   14412.0   15380.3
Total Expenditure                    47.0      125.4     208.0      324.5     545.9      849.1    1642.5   20299.1   28383.9   32496.6   36872.9
Consumption                          35.4       94.7     168.1      278.7     464.5      712.6    1405.0   17072.0   24061.1   27594.5   31316.1
Govcrnment                          10.2       24.3      37.3       52.2      84.3      120.3     199.5    2532.4    3848.1    4426.7    5032.2
Privatc                             25.2       70.4     130.8      226.5     380.2      592.3    1205.6   14539.6   20213.0   23167.8   26283.8
Gross Domestic Investment            11.6       30.7      39.9       45.7      81.4      136.5     237.4    3227.1    4322.8    4902.2    5556.9
Government                           1.0        1.7      -1.8        4.8       9.2       16.5      28.4      381.3     501.1      566.6     642.3
Non-Govermnent                       8.7       23.0      34.4       33.9      65.1      116.7     200.8    2693.9    3540.2    4003.0    4537.6
Total fixed mvestment                9.7       24.6      32.6       38.7      74.3      133.3     229.2    3075.3    4041.4    4569.7    5179.9
Total investment in stocks           2.0        6.0       7.4        7.0       7.1       3.2        8.2      151.8     281.4      332.5     376.9
Domestic Savings                     10.0      41.0       32.7      20.2       57.7     155.1      282.1    3686.8    4805.8    5519.1    6219.8
+ Net Factor Income (NEY)          -3.6     -11.6      -12.5     -13.8        3.5     -31.5      -66.4    -787.6    -727.9    -800.1    -841.8
+ NetCurrentTransfers (NCT)         0.7       1.3        1.0       1.0        9.4       8.9       30.6     341.4      361.8     373.6     384.4
= National Savings                   7.1       30.7      21.2        7.5      70.6      132.5     246.3    3240.7    4439.8    5092.6    5762.4
GrossNational Product                41.8      124.1     188.3      285.2     525.7      836.2    1620.7   19971.3   28139.1   32313.4   36694.1
Gross National Disposable Income     42.5      125.4     189.3      286.2     535.0      845.1    1651.4   20312.7   28500.9   32687.0   37078.5
B. shares of GDP (current vrices)
GDP at mrket prices                 100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
NetdlnirectTaxes                    -4.2        4.4       6.0       4.9        9.5       11.1      11.4       11.5      11.6       11.8      11.9
Agriculure val added              17.7       14.5      12.0       10.6      10.1        9.8       9.7        9.9       9.6        9.4       9.3
Industby value added              51.3       37.4      40.5       35.0      34.3       33.6      33.4       33.5      33.3       33.3      33.2
of which Manufacturing            NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA
Services vale added               31.0       48.2      47.5       54.4      55.5       56.6      56.8       56.5      57.1       57.3      57.5
Resource Balance                     -3.6        7.6      -3.6       -8.5       4.5        2.2       2.6        2.2       1.7        1.9       1.8
Imports (GNPS)                      36.7      40.1       62.0       53.7      53.5       50.3      61.9       56.7      44.9      41.7       39.2
Exports (CiNFS)                     33.1       47.7      58.4      45.2       48.9       52.4      64.6       58.9      46.6      43.5       41.0
Total Expenditure                   103.6       92.4     103.6      108.5     104.5       97.8      97.4       97.8      98.3       98.1      98.2
Government consumption              22.5       17.9      18.6       17.5      16.1       13.9      11.8       12.2      13.3       13.4      13.4
Private consumption                 55.5       51.9      65.1      75.8       72.8      68.3       71.5      70.0       70.0       70.0      70.0
Government mvestment                 2.2        1.2      -0.9        1.6       1.8        1.9       1.7        1.8       1.7        1.7       1.7
Non-Govermnent invesument           19.1       16.9      17.1       11.4      12.5       13.5      11.9       13.0      12.3       12.1      12.1
Gross Domestic Savings               22.0      30.2       16.3       6.8       11.1      17.9       16.7      17.8       16.6      16.7       16.6
Gross Natioal Savings                15.5      22.6       10.6       2.5       13.5      15.3       14.6      15.6       15.4      15.4       15.4
Gross Natimal Product                92.1       91.5      93.8       95.4     100.7       96.4      96.1       96.2      97.5       97.6      97.8
Gross Nationsl Disposable Income     93.6       92.4      94.3       95.7     102.5       97.4      97.9       97.9      98.7       98.7      98.8
Memorandum items:
Price indices (% change)
GDP defltor                         26.2      238.5      59.6       51.1      71.6      62.8      113.7    1192.5       31.6      10.8        9.0
Consumer price index                64.0      238.9      82.6       72.8      96.0       62.6     123.0    1363.2       33.3       22.2      15.0
Total GDP (million current USS)   20,726.3    7,629.4    8,604.3   10,833.3    9,719.6   12,918.2   9,416.7   10,679.3   14,433.5   16,556.8  18,767.9
Conversion factor used (LCU/US$)      2.2       17.8      23.3       27.6      53.7       67.2     179.2    1943.8    2000.0    2000.0    2000.0
Percapita grossnationalproduct      2,180      1,508     1,360      1,172     1,163      1,340        ..
(Atlas mehod: in 1987 US$)



Annex 5
u Idgarbia                                                      Page 2 of 2
Ndod Accouxk
actual                                                           Projection
1990      1"1        192       1993       1994      195        1996      1997       1996      1999      200I
C. In Constant 1990 Pric  (bl. LCUs)
GDP at market prim                   45A        40.1      37.2       36.6      37.3       38.0      34.6       32.9      34.8       36.0      37.5
GDP at Factor Cost                  47.3       37.7      33.3       33.0      30.1       29.5      26.7       25.3      26.7       27.5      28.5
Agricultre                         8.1        8.7       8.0        7.8       7.5        7.4       6.7        6.5       6.6        6.8       7.0
Ingsty                            23.3       18.9      17.6       17.3      17.2       17.2      15.6       14.9      15.6       16.2      16.8
of which Manufactring              ..         ..        ..         ..      1.         1.           ..        ..      1.         1.        13
Services                           14.1      12.5      11. 12.5 112.5                  13.4      12.3       11.5      12.6       13.1      13.8
Rource Balance                        -1.6       3.2       2.8        1.8       2.3        4.4       4.1        4.1       4.3        4.6       4.8
Impos (GNFS)                        16.7        5.8       8.0        8.7       7.6        9.0       8.3        8.5       8.9        9.2       9.6
Expos (GNFS)                        15.0        9.0      10.7       10.5       9.9       13.5      12.4       12.6      13.2       13.8      14.4
Total Expendiure                     47.0       36.9      34.4       34.8      34.9       33.6      30.5       28.8      30.5       31.5      32.7
Consumption                          35.4       25.5      25.6       28.3      29.1       27.7      26.2       24.3      25.9       26.7      27.8
Governmt                             8.3        7.3       6.7        6.7       5.8        5.1       3.9        3.9       4.5        4.7       4.9
Private                             27.2       18.2      18.9       21.6      23.3       22.6      22.2       20.4      21.4       22.1      22.9
Gro  Domestic lnveuamt               11.6       11.3       8.8        6.6       5.8        5.9       4.3        4.6       4.7        4.8       5.0
Government                           1.0        0.6       1.0        1.0       1.1        1.1       1.1        1.2       1.2        1.3       1.3
Non-Governmet                        8.7        7.2       6.6        4.7       4.0        4.1       3.0        3.1       3.1        3.1       3.3
Totl fixed invesment                 9.7        7.7       7.6        5.7       5.1        5.2       4.2        4.3       4.3        4.4       4.6
Total invesment in stocks            2.0        3.6       1.2        0.8       0.7        0.8       0.2        0.2       0.3        0.4       0.4
Terms of trade (11) effect            0.0      -2.1       -3.2      -3.2       -3.0      -4.1       -3.7      -3.8       -4.0      -4.2      -4.3
Gros domestic imnco                  45.4      38.0       33.9      33.5       34.3      34.0       30.9      29.1       30.9      31.9       33.2
Domesc  sving (TT adjted)            10.0      12.4        8.4       5.2        5.2       6.3        4.7       4.9        5.0       5.2        5.4
Not facorincon,                       -4         -3         -2        -2         0         -1         -1        -1         -1        -I        -I
GNP at mkt prices                     42         37        35         35        38         37        33         32        34         35        37
D. Annual rowth rates (199 tmices)
GDP at muke tprim                    -9.1      -11.7      -7.3       -1.5       1.8        2.0      -9.0       -4.8       5.7        3.5       4.0
Agicultue                          -3.7       7.7      -7.7       -3.2      -3.0       -1.0     -10.0       -2.8       1.8        2.0       3.0
Industy                           -12.5     -18.6      -7.0       -2.0      -0.2        0.0      -9.5       -4.5       5.0        3.5       3.5
of which Manufacturing            NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA
Services                          -6.1      -11.3      -7.5        0.4       8.0        6.7      -7.8       -6.3       8.8        4.3       5.1
kmpos (GNFS)                       -69.5      -65A       37.9       9.6      -13.4       19.6      -7.9        2.1       4.7        3.8       4.2
Expors (GNFS)                      -71.4      -40.2      19.3       -2.2      -5.8      36.3       -7.9        1.7       4.5       4.5        4.2
Totel Expenditure                     -9.8     -21.6      -6.7        1.3       0.3       -3.8      -9.1       -5.6       5.9        3.1       4.0
Conupto                              5.1      -27.9       0.2       10.5       3.0       -5.0      -5.3      -7.4        6.6        3.3       4.0
Investmat                          -37.0       -2.3     -22.3     -25.5      -11.5       2.0      -27.0        5.4       2.1       2.4        4.0
Gross dometic income                 -9.5     -16.3      -10.6      -1.4        2.5      -0.9       -9.1      -5.6        5.9       3.4        4.0
Gross domestic saving               -39.4      24.7      -32.9     -38.0       -0.2      22.1      -25.8       4.5        2.0       3.8       4.1
Per CaYita .rowth rates:
PercapitsaODP(mp)                     -5A      -11.0      -6.6       -1.0       2.2        2.3      -8.6       -4.5       6.2        3.9       4.5
Per cpita towlconmnption              9.4      -27.4       1.0       11.1       3.4       -4.8       4.9       -7.1       7.2        3.7       4.5
Per capita prvate cau4ptin           -6.8      -32.4       4.7       14.8       8.2       -3.0      -1.0       -8.1       5.5        3.5       4.4
E. Period Avere udieators                    1%449    19694    1994-9
Marginal naioml saving rate                     -0.1       0.7       -0.2
Incremental capital-oput ratio                   0.0      -4.7      -20.7
Imort elaticity                                -0.2       2.3       -2.1



Annex 6
Bulga*a                                                               Page I of I
C6icai Issp.e  R.Aabiusaauk Ia.
Eapint .d lap.erl
actual                                                               nproleton
19"9       191        192        199        1994       1"5        1996       1997       19"        1999       2000
A. Value In Current Prices (JSS tlions)
Total Merchndise Exports (FOB)        3,743      3,141      3,956      3,727      3,935      5,344      4,724      4,883      5,222      5,555      5,915
Prmaiy products                      2,270      1,660      2,026      2,030      2,194      2,411      2,564      2,765      2,9S1      3,209      3,453
CP.X.MQT.X                         1,380        890        978        980      1,059      1,145      1,238      1,335      1,439       1,549     1,667
CP.X.OAORI                           890        770      1,048      1,050      1,135      1,266      1,326      1,430      1,542      1,660      1,786
CP.                                    .          .          .          ..                    ..                    ..                    ..
CP.                                    .          .          .          ..                    ..                    ..                    ..
Manufactured goods                       ..        ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..
Other gods                           1,473      1,481      1,930      1,697      1,741      2,933      2,160      2,118      2,241      2,346      2,462
Total Merchandise hIpoi (CIF)         4,661      2,491      4,169      4,612      3,952      5,224      4,579      4,740       5,089      5,421      s,772
Food                                   150        358        942      1,042        S93      1,181      1,035      1,071      1,150      1,225      1,304
Ofwer Consumer Goods                   529        167        429        475        407        538        472        488        524        558        595
POL and OtherBnagy                   1,392        495      1,026      1,135        972      1,285      1,126      1,166      1,252      1,334      1,420
Intenrmediate Goods n.e.i.             884        208        567        627        537        710        623        645        692        737        785
Primry Goods                          884        208        567        627        537        710        623        645        692        737        785
Manufacturod Goods                     ..         ..         ..         ..         ..
Capit   Goods                        1,706      1,263      1,205      1,333      1,142      1,510      1,323      1,370      1,471      1,567      1,668
B. Value In Costt 1967 Price. (lUSS mnLUos)
Total Merchandise Exports (FOB)       7,061      7,892      4,215      3,986      4,083      5,306      4,811      4,890       5,116      5,305     5,516
KP.X.MBT.X                          2,659      2,972       1,587      1,501      1,537      1,998      1,811      1,841      1,927      1,998      2,077
KP.X.OAGRI                          2,354      2,632       1,405      1,329      1,361      1,769      1,604      1,630      1,706      1,769      1,839
KP.                                     ..         ..         ..         ..         0          0          0          0          0          0          0
KP.                                     ..         ..         ..         ..         0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Manufactures                             0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Other Expots                         2,048      2,289      1,222      1,156      1,184      1,539      1,395      1,418      1,484      1,538      1,600
Toal Merchadise Import (CIF)         11,593     18,451      3,249      3,608      2,999      3,794      3,410      3,471      3,647      3,786      3,937
Food                                   517        823        145        161        134        169        152        155        163        169        176
Other Cosumer Goods                    994      1,583        279        309        257        325        293        298        313        325        338
POL nd OthrEnergy                    1,569      2,498        440        488        406        514        462        470        494        513        533
Intenmediate Goods D.C.i.            1,168      1,859        327        363        302        382        344        350        367        381        397
Primay Goods                        1,168      1,859       327        363        302        382        344        350         367       381        397
Manufactured Goods                     ..         ..         ..                               ..
Capital Goods                        7,345     11,689      2,058      2,286      1,900      2,403      2,161      2,199      2,310      2,399      2,494
Memorandum Items:
ExportvoIumegrwthrite                 -32.6       11.8      -46.6       -5.4        2A        30.0       -9.3        1.6        4.6        3.7        4.0
lmportvolum growthrate(CIF)             3.0       59.2       -82.4      11.1       -16.9      26.5       -10.1       1.8        5.1        3.8        4.0
C. Prie Indces (1967 = 100)
MerchandieE xport                       53         40         94         93         96        101         98        100        102        105        107
Merchandise hmport                      40         13        128        128        132        138        134        137        140        143        147
Merchandise Terms of Trade             132        295         73         73         73         73         73         73         73         73         73
D. Non-Faetor Services
(indiccs bae 1987 = 100)
Expots of NFS - volune index              2          1          1         10          5          7         -2          2          4          7          5
Bxporof NPS - price index                 0          0        237        236        244        254        248        252        258        265        271
Impots of NPS - vohmc indcx               I          I          1          4         12        -16          4          3          3          4          5
ImportsofNFS-priceindex                   0          0        279        278        286        299        292        297        303        311        318






Annex 7
Bulgaila                                                                Page I of I
crw Iypow Rw          _ d La"
BAlmao Pon-& (mEmu o1 US$J
1996       1991  1d9M             im        19         19         196         1997       1          1"99       288
TowI ENrs of MNFI                     4,433       3,559      5,026      4,898      4,757      6,774       6,081      6,292      6,721      7,206      7,690
Marchamde (FOB)                      3,743       3,141      3,956      3,727      3,935      5,344      4,724      4,s83       5,222      5,555      5,915
Nom-FcsoSrevice                        691        418       1,070      1,172        s22      1,430      1,357       1,409      1,499      1,651      1,775
Tobl npou of aNmS                      5,165      2,991      5,334      5,823      5,198      6,496       5,832      6,056      6,479      6,898      7,359
Machmdiae (POB)                      4,660      2,491       4,169      4,612      3,952      5,224      4,579      4,740       5,089      5,421      5,m7
Nn-PactorServices                      504        500       1,165      1,211      1,246      1,272       1,253      1,316      1,390      1,477      1,587
Rmwce Balsaem                           -731       569        -308       -925       -441        278        249        236         242        308        331
Nd Fader Inerne                        4613      -1,168       -536       -498         64       -469        -370       -405       -364       -400       421
paccoe                                 110         62         125         93        520        154        168        140        212         200        mn
paco Payn_i                            723       1,230       661        591        455         623        538        546        576         600        648
Toal }atree  DUE (scbh               510        159        990        803        391        598        533         545        576        600        648
_bued Paid                         452        104        990        803        391        5s9         533        545        576        600        648
Duo but adoid                      58         55           0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0
OFdr Por  Pay_m                      213      1,071       -329       -212         64         25           5          0          0          0          0
NotpnvalcCurrentTmwfena                  113         70         43         37        174        132         171        176        181        187        192
CwreutReceipts                         200        124        114        286        348         132        171        176        181        187        192
ofwhichwakm'rmitnces                   0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0
CurentPayme                            -87        -54        -71       -249        -173         0           0          0          0          0          0
Net ficial curreat trua                    0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0
Currnt Aceemt Bgalne                 -1,231       -530       -801      -1,386       -202        -59         50          7         59         95        103
Officialc#piaLgrml                        0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0
Privaie ivedum (net                       4         56          42         55        105         82         95        330         250        230        205
Dimu luvee_ient                          4         56         42          55        105         82         95        330        250         230        205
PmtflWoa nveabnm                         0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0
Not LT Bamw                               3         276        322          9        341        -209       -412        187         15       -121         44
Di_bucm perDRS                        876        391        461        152         571         82        158        487        473        210        357
LT RePaY.ma (cb~                     872         114        138        143        4S0        291        570        301        458         331        401
Prk.c   rqpaid                     872        114        138        143        480         291        570        301        458        331        401
Due bt not paid                      0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0
OEterkW bmul-r   w i sd(not)            0           0          0          0        257          0          0           0          0          0          0
Adusaunls ttoSb         "  wdebtvice     58         55           0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
Debt Service na pid                    58          55          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
Rduction inimnpr qaymcnb(-)              0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0
Odber Capitl Fbl   (nt                  755        272         849      1,009        -84        610       -377        -107        115        201        218
Ndo9.t-Tenm (S)Capital                   0          0       -148          0          0          0          0           0          0        103        110
Capil Flows n.e.i.                      0           0        996      1,009       -.4         680        -377       -107        115         98        108
Errormd cminsdioa                     755         m            0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0
C1ne in ad ia     n'l ruerms            411        -130       -412        314       -166       -494        644        -417       -438       -405       482
(- hzdica ucreu inc    aab)
Toal Gros Rerves, of which              505        635       1,240        969      1,297      1,545        793       1,622      2,108      2,383      2,657
Total Reavw  mna gold                   ..          ..         ..         ..         ..         ..         ..          ..
Gold (at year end Lodon pnce)           ..          ..         ..         ..         ..          .          ..         ..
TOWl On_Rove$ imoaiPo                    1.2        2.5        2.8        2.0        3.0        2.9         1.6        3.2        3.9        4.1        4.3
Exchase rae
Amg-l Avere tLCUAMS)                   2.2       17.8       23.3       27.6       53.7        67.2      179.2     1943.8     2000.0    2000.0    2000.0
At end yeur (LCUIUS$)                  2.2       21.8       24.5       32.7       60.0       70.7       179.2     1943.8    2000.0    2000.0    2000.0
IndxrMalaverqeX-RAIm(1991-1             ..      100.0      117.7      178.5         ..          ..         ..         ..
CwmrtAcco t8 Buoa  % GDP                -5.9       -6.9       -9.3      -12.8        -2.1       -0.5        0.5        0.1        0.4        0.6        0.5
_ a.. 






Annex 8
Bilgaria                                                     Page I of 2
CM"*k Ia,p.e R~abdalWA  Lw.
ExAmi Dak Steb uzd #Um (,i.,, of US$)
1990      19          9       199       199        I"       199       19I7                 199       2000
A. Grn DbbuzgmuU
PFlibc & Publicly Oawuitd         875.6     390.9     264.0      53.4     566.0       S2.0     15S.1     487.2     472.5      210.2     356.S
a. Mubilaal                     43.7     261.2      92.0      21.4      364.0      42.0      90.1     200.2      271.5     178.2     206.8
of which IBRD               0.0       58.2      92.0       3.0     246.0       15.0      52.5     140.4     161.7     123.5      134.8
of whch EBRD/BIB            0.0       0.0        0.0      18.4     118.0      27.0       37.6      59.8     109.8      54.7      72.0
b. Biblteral                    36.4       10.3     172.0      32.0     202.0      40.0       68.0     287.0     171.0       0.0      50.0
Privat creditor.                795.5     119.4       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       30.0      32.0     100.0
of which banda                  64.5        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Privat Non-Ouasiteed                0.0       0.0     196.6      98.3       5.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Toal Lon-Tem Diaburnm              75.6     390.9     460.6     151.7     571.0       82.0     158.1     487.2     472.5      210.2     356.8
Net Short-Ton Capital               0.0       0.0    -147.6       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      1%J3.5    110.4
IMF Pumbae                         0.0      395.8     278.0      42.5      227.3       0.0     116.0     506.6     178.4        0.0       0.0
Totl Disburi. (LT+IMF+SM)        875.6     786.7      591.0     194.2     798.3      82.0     274.1      993.8     650.9     313.6     467.2
B._
Public & PubricIyOuaru.tcod       872.4     114.4      41.0       6.0      408.0     203.0     425.1     160.7     451.0      324.4     393.7
a. Multilateral                 29.9      24.3       0.0       0.0       75.0       0.0      12.6      33.7       65.3      82.6      94.9
ofwhich IBD                 0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       12.6      33.7      43.3      50.6      52.9
ofwhich BRDIEIB             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      22.0      32.0      42.0
b. Bilaal                        0.7        0.7      22.0       6.0     102.0      77.0      156.5      75.0     333.7     209.8     280.8
Privatecrediora                 841.8      89.4       19.0       0.0     231.0     126.0     256.0      52.0       52.0      32.0      18.0
of which bonds                   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      20.0      208.0      52.0      52.0      32.0       18.0
Pxivat Non.Ouanted                  0.0       0.0      97.4     137.0      72.4       88.0     145.0     140.0       7.0        7.0       7.0
Tod Laft-TeamAmmoizAtm            872.4     114.4     138.4     143.0      480.4     291.0     570.1     300.7     458.0      331.4     410.7
IMF Rqrchpaea                       0.0       0.0      85.0       0.0      65.0      246.0     224.0      94.0      131.0     129.5     185.0
Toa Amuizatma (LT+IMF)           872.4     114.4      223.4     143.0     545.4     537.0     794.1      394.7     589.0     460.9     585.7
C. Not D liam
P:bfic & PWlic Gluamnd             3.2      276.5     223.0      47.4     158.0    -121.0    -267.0      326.5      21.5    -114.3      -36.9
a. Mulilater                    13.8     236.9      92.0      21.4      289.0      42.0      77.5     166.5      206.2      95.6     111.9
of which IBRD               0.0       58.2      92.0       3.0     246.0      15.0       39.9     106.7     118.4      72.9      81.9
of which DRD/EIB            0.0       0.0        0.0      18.4     118.0      27.0       37.6      59.8      87.8      22.7      30.0
b. Bilater                      35.7       9.6      150.0      26.0     100.0     -37.0      -88.5     212.0    -162.7    -209.8    -230.8
Prival crediton                 .46.3      30.0     -19.0       0.0    -231.0    -126.0    -256.0      -52.0      -22.0       0.0      82.0
of which bonds                  64.5        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     -20.0    -208.0      -52.0     -52.0     -32.0     -18.0
Private Nmn-(uaratoed              0.0        0.0      99.2     -38.7     -67.4    -.8.0    -145.0    -140.0        -7.0      -7.0      -7.0
Toa Lcg-TeamNetDiab.                3.2     276.5     322.2       8.7      90.6    -209.0     412.0      186.5      14.5    -121.3     -43.9
Not Shot-TeCapita                   0.0       0.0    -147.6       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      103.5     110.4
Netdua of IM  Crodt                 0.0     395.8     193.0      42.5      162.3    -246.0    -108.0     412.6      47.4    -129.5    -185.0
Tot a tDisbura. (LT+IMP+ST)        3.2     672.3      367.6      51.2     252.9     455.0    -520.0      599.1      61.9    -147.3    -118.5
D. I
Public & Piblicly Ouarmd          451.7     103.6     955.0     694.9     309.4      477.5     450.0     472.8     493.0      481.7     468.7
A. Muiaeal                      13.3      49.3      89.0      48.6       27.2      55.6      59.6      64.1      74.0       87.6      92.4
of which IBRD               0.0       0.0        6.0      22.2      25.9      46.4      48.5       50.3      55.9      63.3      66.5
ofwhichEBRDIEI              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       1.3       9.7       11.6      14.3      18.5      24.8      26.4
b. Bilatea                       0.3        0.5      75.0     101.1      96.9      132.5     126.3     131.5     142.4      114.2     91.0
Private creditor                438.1      53.8     791.0      545.2     185.2     289.4     264.1     27.1       276.7     279.9     285.2
of which bond                   15.5       10.3      15.0      22.0      22.0      22.0       20.0       7.0       4.0       1.0       0.0
Privie Noa-auteed                  0.0        0.0       0.0      47.2      16.0        9.0       4.0       3.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Todiletre otlnoap.Teom l.o        451.7     103.6     955.0     742.1     325.4      486.5     454.0     475.8     493.0      481.7     468.7
lalerea an Sbort-Tem Debt          58.0      49.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       7.5       15.4
DMeP CIA                           0.0        6.1      35.0      60.6      65.6      111.9      79.1      63.7      82.5      76.6       63.6
Totl We   (LT+D"+MT)             509.7     158.7      990.0     802.7     391.0     598.4     533.1      539.5     575.5     565.8     547.7
_AMff                                                                                                                        M1Thl



Annex 8
BRulmi                                                        Page 2 of 2
Ea:.  Dal SMoah md HAw *           V USS)
10        19i        1         1          1994      19"        16         197                  199       20
Pubihc A PWble     uassd          9S16.6    9990.4   11046.0   11412.3    8514.3    S431.8    8273.8    S603.3    8626.8    8512.5    8475.6
a. Mullatl                      615.9      852.1     771.6      831.6    1234.6    1315.1    1506.6    1673.1    1879.3    1974.9    20S6.8
of which IBRD                0.0       60.5      150.3     153.3      399.3     414.3      454.2     560.9      679.3      752.2     S34.1
odwhich EBRD/E1B             0.0        0.0       0.0       IS.4      136.4     163.4      201.0     260.8      348.6      371.3     401.3
b. Biliral                      1045.9    1160.7    1668.4    1691.3    1791.3    1754.3    1665.8    1877.S    1715.1    1505.3    1274.4
Privte credor                   8154.S    7977.6    8606.0    8889.4    5438.4    5362.4    5106.4    5054.4    5032.4    5032.4    5114.4
a. Brai                          327.3     339.6      351.0     351.0      351.0     331.0      123.0       71.0      19.0      -13.0     -31.0
Private ? Nkw-Ousraned               0.0       0.0      631.0     592.3      524.9      436.9     291.9      151.9      144.9     137.9      130.9
Totl Laf-Team DOD                 9816.6    9990.4   11677.0   12004.6    9039.2    886.7    8570.7    8757.2    8771.7    8650.4    8606.5
Sbod-Tae  Debt                    1054.7    1569.3        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0     103.5      213.8
Us o MP Crdit                        0.0     413.7      589.5      632.0     922.8      728.2     589.1    1001.7    1049.0       919.5      734.5
Totl DOD (LT+IMF+ST), of which    10471.3   11973.4   12266.5   12636.6    9962.0    9596.9    9159.S    9753.8    9S20.8    9673.4    9554.9
Priwl Anen                         355.9    1443.3    5024.5    5984.7          ..         ..        ..         ..
Irsd Arrean                        225.1     766.3      796.0      516.6        ..         ..        ..         ..
F. Delt ad dbt BUde Indators:
TctOldebrvice ilJUS$)               1382.1     273.1    1213.4      945.7      936.4    1135.4    1327.2       934.2    1164.5    1026.7    1133.5
Iee (LT + ST + IMP)               509.7      158.7     990.0      802.7      391.0     598.4      533.1     539.5      575.5      565.8     547.7
P-ocipsi (LT + IYF)                872.4      114.4     223.4      143.0     545.4      537.0     794.1      394.7      589.0     460.9      585.7
For ttal DOD and Total debt servee (flS):
DODMExpraofGNPS                    245.2     336.4      244.1      258.0     209.4      141.7     150.6      155.1      146.1     134.2      124.2
DOD / ODP                           52.5      156.9     142.6      116.6     102.5       74.3      97.3       91.4       68.0      S.A        50.9
TD SllVpmt of GS                    31.2       7.7       24.1       19.3      19.7       16.8      21.8       14.8       17.3      14.2       14.7
IBRD expemru bndictor:
IBRDDebthSrviee/PublicDS             0.0       0.0        0.5        2.9       3.1        4.5       5.2       10.6        8.6      11.3       10.7
PfCor ditorDS/Public DS              0.0       2.7       11.3       10.9      18.6       39.9      31.9       32.3       30.5      37.2       39.3
MRD D9Bxpcnt aGNPs                   0.0       0.0          0        0.5       0.5        0.7       1.0        1.3        1.5       1.6        1.6
Cntry SS areU  IBRD Poafoio          0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.1        0.1       0.2        0.2        0.3       0.3        0.3



Annex9
BUZgGJ*a                                                         Page I of I
CrN4m  Ii.p.el RabdtsOMWn Lom,
Pab& %moe,e. (bLCUWi)
1--I       1991       1992       1993       1"4        19"         199        1997         _        199        28
Toa Carrem Reveuam                       24          55         78        111        218        313        556        58S5       8664       9548      10817
Direct a                                 9         28         28         31         63         86         138       1557       2195       2518       2854
Indirecti ae.                            8         20         31         52        107         152        262       3185       4915       5263       5961
On dame goods ad services              8         18         27         43         92         131        220       3069       4787       5133       5815
on ialomti alxtrade                    0          2          4          9          15         21         42        116        128         130        147
Nc-Tax Reejipta                          6          8         19         2S         49         75         157       1142       1555       1767       2002
Total Coumt Erpe _dkhre                   27         64         87        138        243        353         728       6390       8224       8982      10011
hed   oa lxexlnal debt                  0          7          4           3          7         24         47        508        672         906        88S
btreat a dmeadic debt                   0          8          13        25          67         99        298       1210        420        -150       -254
Trfav to private ector                 10         19         29          52         77        100        172       2009       3101        3590       4107
Traufen to dcr NFPS                     0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
Subsidies                               7          5          4           6          8          9         12        131         183        210        238
Ca_icim n                              10         24         37         52          84        120        199       2532       3848       447         5032
Wagea ad ulaies                       2          7         12         19         29         41          62        719       1090       1263       1446
Oler ccauqRWV                         8         18         26         33         56         80         137       1813       2758       3163       3586
Budgary Saving                            -3         -8         -9        -27        -25         -40       -172       -506        441        566        806
CapjaRlRve.                              0           0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0
TotalCa*aExpeudkors                        1          3          6          6          9          10         11        204        440        828       1129
Cqvitl tAe&n                             0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0
Budgsay lixed mveamt                     1          3          6          6          9          10         11        204        440        828       1129
Overalbalanc (- - dedkO)                 -4         -11        -14        -33        -34         -50       -183       -710          1       -262       -322
Soures of fnandg (+)                      4          11         14         33         34         50         183        710         -1        262        322
OfCqbialcaphalOras                       0           0          0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0
BEx   alB-owiog(net)                    -2          11          9         -I          6        -18        -41        223         368        591        688
Meazy SyM Credt (net                     6         39          37        104         83         -7        224        -213       -719       -307       -264
Oder Dtics  Bamrww         (net)         0         -39        -31        -70        -56         75          0        700         350        -22       -102
Swee of GDP at camut vrke
Curretrevuiues                         52.8       40.8       38.7        37.2       41.8       36.1       33.0       28.3        30.0       28.8       28.8
Current epaditue                       58.9       47.0       43.1        46.2       46.5       40.6       43.2       30.8        28.5       27.1       26.7
Budg4eay -vis                           -6.0       -6.2       -4.4       -9.0       -4.7       -4.6      -10.2        -2.4        1.5        1.7        2.1
Capital revenues                        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Capitl cxpad                            3.1        2.0        2.8         1.9        1.7        1.2        0.6         1.0        1.5        2.5        3.0
OvenC Balac (- = ddcit)                -9.1       -8.2        -7.2      -10.9       -6.4       -5.7      -10.9        -3.8        0.0       -0.8       40.9
Official capil gr u,                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Exnewni BOowitgOm*                    -4.4        7.8        4.6        -0.4        1.2       -2.1       -2.4        1.1        1.3        1.8         1.8
Mantay Systna Crdit (1e1)             12.9       29.0       18.3       34.7        15.9       -0.8       13.3       -1.0        -2.5       -0.9      40.7
Otber Deiic Borrowing (net)            0.6      -28.6       -15.7      -23.4      -10.7        8.7        0.0        3.4        1.2       -0.1        -0.3
Gavemeat Debt (DOD at the end of the Year)
ExteaniDebtinbillkm of LCU              24        213        286         349        535        645       1641      18970       19642      19347      19110
BilEaaDekbtimmilloaof US$           10871      11973       12267J-   12637        9962       9597       9160       9759        9821       9673       9555
Det To Mentay Systan(WCU bi)            14         53          90        194        277        269        494        281        -438       -745      -1009
Odber Deedc Debt (LCU bil)               0          0           0          0        153        148        350       3531        3632       3450       3269
Total Oovenaut debt                     37        266        376         542        965       1062       2485      22782       22836      22052          0
TotlGoveenmntdebtaspermentO             83        196         187        181        185        122        147         110         79         67          0
Ta bordn ladeslo,. 1
DirecttAe /IODP                       20.9        20.4       13.8       10.4       12.0       10.0         8.2        7.5        7.6        7.6        7.6
lad.r   an domestc GaS / GDP           17.6       13.5       13.4       14.3       17.6        15.0       13.0       14.8       16.6       15.5       15.5
Indir bx  anedanO&SlprivCoas          31.8        26.1       20.6       18.9       24.2       22.0        18.2       21.1       23.7       22.2       22.1
tzea ietl trde, /mercbhnpom            0.5         0.3        0.4        0.9        0.7        0.6         0.5        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1
-  _~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~llM






Bilgaria                                                               Annex 1
CrhWea1 Amp.aO R.hihU.Juiima Lem                                                   Page I of I
M.ary SunM  bi. WC,)
anual                                                                  DsieD
1990      m191        1992        199        1994        1995       199        197         199        199        2090
A. maual IFlws:
Net Intebnnmsl Resaves                   -11       -176         -30       -107        208         121       -135        512         371        351        394
Dmnedic Credit                            14        100         75         154        147          85        827       2048        1484       1403       1575
To Cloven at                             9          95         70         136        106         -28        647        241         -75       -127        -79
Oovemal Budget                         6         39          37        104         83          -7        224        -213       -719        -307       -264
Oher ini-fi'l public setor            3         55          33         32         23         -21        422        454         644        IS0         185
ToReatofdbeecmomy                        5           6          5          18         41        113         180       1807        1560       1530       1654
Pcivateinector                         5          6           5         IS         41         113        IS0         195        189        179         161
Other r'socialh nis                    0          0           0          0          0           0          0        1612       1371        1351       1494
TolalAswts = liabltie                      3        -76         45          47        355        207         692       2560        1856       1754       1969
Maney ad Qusxcy                            7         57         52          76        184         166        727       2560        1856       1754       1969
Other Liabilities (net)                   -3       -133          -7        -29        171         41         -34          0           0          0          0
B. End of Year Stacks:
Net IeenktimAl Reraves                   -27       -203        -233       -340       -132         -10       -145        367         738       1089       1483
I)anedic Crdit                            67        168        242         396        543        628        1455       3504       4988        6391       7966
To  orvernmet(NFPS)                     60         155        225        360         467        438        1045       1326       1251        1124       1045
GOcermue  Bu4det                      14         53          90        194        2m7         269        494        281        -438        -745      -1009
Odher ncn-fin'l pubec sector          47        102         135        167        190         169        591        1045       1649       1869       2054
ToRcstofthe csomfy                       7          13         18         36          77        190        370        2177       3737        5267       6922
Privalesector                          7         13          18         36         77         190        370        565         754        933        1094
Other f'inialinstitutions              0          0           0          0          0           0          0        1612       2983       4334        5828
TotalAsets = liabiieis                  40         -36          9          56        412        618        1310       3871        5726       7480       9449
Mae-y -dQuaknouey                         49        106         158        234        418         584       1310       3871        56         7480       9449
OtberL    lia i (ad)                      -9       -142        -149       -178         -6         34           0          0           0          0          0
C. Fasetors aseeundg for
monetary ezuason_ (as % MOM)
NotlntenalioaalReweves                 -55.4     -191.6      -147.6     -145.3      -31.5        -1.8      -11.1         9.5       12.9        14.6       15.7
CredittoGovernent(NMPS)                122.4      145.7       142.0      153.9      111.6        75.1       82.8        34.3       21.8       15.0        11.1
Credktoseatoftbgecommy                  14.7       12.2        11.3       15A         18.3       32.6       28.2        56.3       65.3       70A         73.3
Oher Liabes (set (-)                   -18.3     -133.7       -94.4      -76.0        -1.6        5.9        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Totl increase i MQM                 100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
D. Memorandum Ites:
Net intudioal rsves i USS
Flow dhg the year                        -5         -10         -1         -4          4           2          -1          0          0          0           0
Stok at the aof-year                    -12          -9        -10        -10          -2          0          -1          0          0           1          1
E. Momey Croft ad Plice
M2/GDP                                 104.4       78.2        78.7       78.3       80.0        67.3       77.7        18.6       19.8       22.6        25.2
AnnusgrowthrawcMl                       14.1      115.8        49.0       48.0       78.6        39.6      124.5       195.4       47.9       30.6        26.3
Annualgrowthpfivawecrekt               -85.1       79.2        37A       101.6       113.0      148.1       94.7        52.7       33.4        23.8       17.2
Inrease i privae credit as %          -312.0       53.3        83.9      160.0      304.8       943.6       72.0        37.4       78.8        84.6       69.8
of iereae in damnstic credit
MA.M MA                                                                                                AflTh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MMda0 






Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original Amount in US$ Millions                         Between actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                        and expected
Project ID  Credit No.   Year                 Borrower                    Purpose              IBRD          IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Disbursements a/
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
BG-PE-8307    L33840         1991   REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA           TA REFORM                       17.00        0.00              0.00          8.92                 8.92
BG-PE-8312    L36310         1993   GOVT. OF BULGARIA               PRIV. INV. & EXPORT            55.00        0.00              0.00         40.90                37.90
BG-PE-8316    L35630         1993                                  ENERGY                          93.00        0.00              0.00         71.30                62.96
BG-PE-8322    L35920         1993   GOVT. OF BULGARIA              TELECOMMUNICATION               30.00        0.00              0.00         20.46                l8.56
BG-PE-8309   L37710          1994   GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA         AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP            50.00        0.00              0.00         50.00                40.34
BG-PE-8319    L37390         1994   GOVT. OF BULGARIA              WATER COMPANIES REST            98.00        0.00             41.00         51.43                25.29
BG-PE-831B   L40000          1996   GOVT. OF BULGARIA              HEALTH SECTOR RESTRU            26.00        0.00              0.00         25.96                 -.04
BG-PE-8315    L39220         1996   BDZ                            RAILWAY REHABILITATI            95.00        0.00              0.00         87.51                19.17
BG-PE-8323   L40810          1997   MOF                            SOCIAL INSUR. ADMIN.            24.30        0.00              0.00         24.30                 0.00
Total                                                                                             480.30        0.00             41.00        380.78
Active Loans          Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                     66.52               405.00               471.52
of which has been repaid:                     0.00                 17.77                17.77
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                    447.30               387.23               834.53
Amount sold                                          0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                   0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                                  380.78                 0.00               380.78
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation ot Implementation Summary (Form 590) . Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP),
a letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, 'Implementation Progress" will be reported here.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Bulgaria
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 02/28/97
In Mllions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY             Company           Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1994     Euromerchant F'ND           0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    2.50   0.00    0.00
Pending Commitments
1996      * INTERLEASE INC.          3.50       .40    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations information System (OIS)



Annex 12
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
PROPOSED CRITICAL IMPORTS REHABILITATION LOAN
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING STEPS
(1) Time taken to prepare               3 weeks
(2) Project prepared by                 Bank Staff(*)
(3) Concept Meeting                     March 14, 1997
(4) Loan Committee                      April 16, 1997
(5) Appraisal                           April 16, 1997
(6) Negotiations                        April 21, 1997
(7) Board Presentation                  May 8, 1997
(8) Closing Date                        June 30, 1998
Preparation of this loan was a team effort involving ECI Staff from the Resident Mission in Bulgaria, each
sector and country operations. The team was comprised of N. Sirur (Leader), F. Batzella, MH. Bricknell, M.
Debatisse, D. He, H.O. Moritz, A. Musalem, J. Nash, N. Nikolov, E. Patterson, E. Somensatto, G. Sotirova, and
P. Tardy. G. Mikhlin (Counsel) worked closely with the team. The report was prepared by N. Sirur and D. He,
drawing heavily for key sections on an economic update written by E. Somensatto. F. Hassan and N.
Mangosing-Koeppen prepared the Annex Tables. H. Sutrisna and J. Francis O'Connor processed the report. C.
Poortman and R. Harbison are the Division Chiefs, F. Lysy is the Lead Economist, and K. Lay is the Department
Director.






ISRD 28735
22-                         23                          24'                         i5.                          27                                        27'                                        29-
~~I                                                                                                                      rO~YO    K,,Io,          Ht
(SERBIA/MONT.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
_ >~~Koshevo                               ~R O M A N I A                                      ,m 
A3'                              4id
F  YD   R E P                                           -                                 5
MACEDOFTANIA                                                                                                                                   CRITICALjIMPRTSREHABO R  VAR                           N  OAso
2         SL      IA                                                                                  k                                                                            OLT i     T N  PLS
(SERBIA/MON            T.) '-  .                                       ,ORTS
'A-.                                                                                                                                          ---- OBLAST BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ k  P-..
6.                                                        y o     kP  D/  h V2- GURK6 1s- 9
*  K.                                                                                                      -    -     ~     '                                            --  INTERNATIONAL ROUN.ARID
0                                             b,,I                          C6-h~~~~~~- /,,
F Y R f~~~~~~~~ SSnob_KIJet- z..                                                                                         0 O E    ULG R G 
223 FED 2EP  -C3   03LASTCAPITALS
-AR-A2' LAA                                         _-
r:  <. >   , _.   D X C .   __                 ,                                  _   .        >                                         =   -   O8LAST SOLINDAR ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,   UR EY  ,8  2
ISERBIA/MONTI/ * BULwA? a                                    ~                                    A e g e   n    S e a                            _0->                    o      20      40     60      S0    100
MACEDO           I                    T-                                                                                                                CL I P __ _                    KILOMETERS
kICA2-          _                                                                                                                       - >_                         ThE boand,ries, colors denonUoot,ons =nd =ny a,Fer ,nfororo,on
ALSANIAt = , ' T U R K E Y ~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - +_ sbo_n =r hh; map d=l hOfI fmt P zE > =ny Phony d80,o5 o ho o9o stoo, orany=rr=nnyor dy=rnorb-non
, GREECE   'ene'                              _S 24*                                                                                                                                                  W 25-  26- 2_ ,'D r c hN1
t  NATIONAL CAPITAL ~        ARIL199









IMAGING
Report No.: P         7096   BUL
Type:      PR



