                                                                                                       CONFIDENTIAL
.·
              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                       International Development Association
                                                                                                             87241
                          International Finance Corporation
                     M Liltilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                 EDS97-142
                                                                                                 May 7~ 1997
                                     BULGARIA
                        Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
                    & Country Assistance Strategy - Progress Report
                                                     May 8,1997
                                          Statement by Juan Cariaga
           I would like to start by extending our full support to this critical Bank loan to Bulgaria. We
     also hope that this operation marks the beginning of sustainable mRD financial assistance to this
     country. Since Bulgaria joined the Bank, the assistance has been erratic due principally to the lack
     of enough commitment from the Bulgarians to take the corrective actions to lead the way for
     sustained economic development. Now there are positive signs indicating that once and for all the
     much-needed decisions will be made and Bulgaria will finally embark on the right path. We
     welcome very much this renewed commitment to introduce an ambitious and comprehensive
     economic program which will attempt to "break with the past policy patterns, which have been
     hesitant and limited" (Letter ofDevelopment Policy sent by the Government to the Bank. page 8).

          At the same time, we would expect the Bank to be prepared with adequate financial and
     human resources, and with enough flexibility, to respond effectively to this new challenge.
     Therefore, we hope that the reorganization being undertaken in the Regional Vice Presidency
     does not adversely affect the operational activities of the Bank in this country.

     Th~loan


           In principle, this operation does not appear to be "exceptional" in terms of its quite modest
     loan amount ·-at least compared to the size of both the external accounts and financial needs of
     this country. However, it is obviously crucial in that it will help finance the immediate import of
     socially "critical" goods such as medicines, wheat, fertilizer and fuel oil.

          The Letter presents convincing arguments about the emergency nature of this operation; for
     example, with regard to the urgent need for importing wheat and wheat products. It also
     provides very revealing truth about the erosion of real incomes as a result of high inflation:
     average wages ofUS$20 a month in the budget sector, and average pensions ofUS$10 a month.
     Unfortunately, these employees and pensioners fall as well within the widely publicized category
     of people living "on less than a dollar a day", in spite of the fact that Bulgaria (i) is an mRD
     borrower, (ii) is a "Brady country", and (iii) has an estimated GNP per capita ofUS$1,340
     (1995), showing once again that per capita income cannot be considered in isolation from other
     development indicators.



        This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipi~nts only in the performance of their
        official duties. It should not be distributed without the consent of the Executive Director co_ncemed. __ _j
      With regard to the relatively small size of this loan, and in view of the critical foreign
exchange needs of Bulgaria, we feel that the Bank could have been a little bit more aggressive and
provide some extra financing for this emergency operation. We agree with the principle that
adjustment lending should be subject to strict conditionality, and that without the basic package of
structural reform and commitment from the government, it must remain at the minimum possible
level. However, this balance-of-payment loan cannot be categorized as an adjustment operation
in a narrow sense, but as an "emergency fast-disbursing operation" geared at providing relief to
one specific and well justified social objective: critical imports. The ffiRD has (i) enough
"headroom" and (ii) an enormous financial intermediation capacity, as to provide additional
financing at below-market costs. These cases do warrant more flexibility from the Bank.

       The document states that this type of operation corresponds to a second phase ofBank
support, where rapid small-scale loans will be provided "with no increase in exposure to the
Bank" (paragraph 57). It is also mentioned that there is an agreement with the Government of
Bulgaria to cancel parts of other loans (paragraph 22 of the CAS). We would like to hear from
staff, clear indications that new lending and portfolio restructuring/cancellations are independent
events. Restructuring/cancellations of existing loans should be exclusively related to problems in
project implementation, without any link to the provision of fresh funding for new projects.

      We are particularly concerned with paragraph 28, where it is stated that "The objective is to
identify projects, or project components, that could be canceled in order to make room for new
operations within the CAS parameters". The "no exposure increase" paradigm cannot be an
objective per se, but rather a circumstantial outcome of any in-depth portfolio review. For a Bank
with US$90 billion of "headroom", it would be highly unacceptable that new operations can be
provided at the expense of --and conditioned to-- canceling existing loan balances.

 The CAS

      We basically agree with the strategy outlined in the Progress Report. Last year we
 maintained that Bulgaria needed to take immediate action in a three-front priority target:

         1. Reduction of losses by large state-owned enterprises (SOEs) through a combination
            of closure/privatization and massive restructuring --which obviously should not
            involve new investments, and should include specific measures to force these
            companies to work on a strictly cash-flow basis.
         2. Thorough overhaul/privatization of the banking system.
         3. Privatization and/or full economic pricing for utilities which, at least for the
            immediate future, seem to be condemned to remain in public sector hands.

        We can read in the loan document (paragraphs six and seven) that some initial actions have
 already taken place: (i) closing of 15 banks (although with the unfortunate consequence that
 depositors could not regain access to their deposits in those banks placed under conservatorship);
 (ii) effective closure or privatization of 41 enterprises that together accounted for 16% of SOE
 losses; (iii) isolation of enterprises --accounting for another 50% of the SOE losses-- which have
 since been managed on cash-flow basis only; (iv) privatization of some sate enterprises.


                                                   2
      However, we also read in the CAS document (paragraphs four and five) that these were
isolated actions which proved to be insufficient, and much more remains to be done. We should
keep in mind that these actions, which at least demonstrated an initial intention to move into the
right direction, were carried out in a relatively short period of time (May 1996-January 1997),
after which the economic and political crisis erupted vigorously. We should also underline that
Bulgaria managed the crisis without jeopardizing its commitment to remain current with all of its
payments obligations. This situation reached an extreme in the first quarter of 1997, when the
Government's revenues were .devoted entirely to meet interest payments on the public debt.

      In view of the current situation, we want to encourage the Bulgarian authorities to
implement the key policy measures which would trigger access to the high-case lending scenario,
including the preparation of the two FESALs and the Social Sector Protection Adjustment Loan.
We are disappointed, however, that this high-case scenario now envisages total adjustment
lending for US$250 million for these three operations altogether, while the adjustment lending
volume for the same scenario was originally set up in US$300 million during last year's CAS
discussion (under different project names, SAL II and SAL III). We would like to know the
reasons for this modification, which in view of Bulgaria's financial needs cannot be considered to
be "marginal", and it could affect the expected net transfers from the Bank.

     It is precisely the pattern of the ffiRD net transfers to Bulgaria that provides the best
evidence of the erratic assistance provided by the Bank to this country during the 1992-96 period.
Only in 1992 and 1995 were these transfers significantly positive, when substantial disbursements
on adjustment operations occurred. In 1994, net transfers were also positive because the
remaining tranche of one adjustment loan was disbursed.

                             ffiRD Net Transfers to (from) Bulgaria
                                        Millions of US$

                             Disbursements Repayments Interest+fees Net Transfers
          Actual      1992   144.0                     1.3      142.7
                      1993      7.0                   11.2       (4.2)
                      1994    78.5                    11.7       66.8
                      1995   177.7                    24.6      153.1
          _______ !~.§________!_7;..0_______ ~}_____ }_QJ_______(!~.2}._
          Projected 1997     121.8          13.7      35.0        73.1
                    1998     313.2          21.3      49.1      242.8
                    1999     198.2          25.7      65.3      107.2
                    2000     232.0          32.1      78.3      121.6

        Bulgaria is still enjoying the "grace period" bonanza for most of its loans. This situation will
 reverse as soon as the country starts to repay the Bank. This fact, together with the increasing
 interest payments expected to arise from a restructured portfolio, will place some pressure on the
 Bank to ensure adequate fast-disbursing lending if the objective of ensuring positive net transfers
 is to be pursued. We believe that these are good reasons for the Bank to prepare an ambitious
 lending program for Bulgaria, as long as this country is committed to sound policy reforms.



                                                    3
