Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16617
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATE POWER DEVELOPMENT
(LOAN 3630-IN)
MAY 27, 1997
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit Rupee (Rs.)
Year              =           US$I = Rs.
1992              =              25.92
1993              =              30.49
1994              =              31.37
1995             =               32.43
1996             =               35.30
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI               =  Government of India
GOM               =  Government of Maharashtra
IPP               =  Independent Power Producer
MOP               =  Ministry of Power
MOU               =  Memorandum of Understanding
ODA               =  Overseas Development Administration
OFAP              =  Operational and Financial Action Plan
PFC               =  Power Finance Corporation
PIU              =  IProject Implementation Unit
PPA              =  IPower Purchase Agreement
PPF              =  Project Preparation Facility
RM                =  Resident Mission
SAR               =  Staff Appraisal Report
SEB               =  State Electricity Board
TOR               =  Terms of Reference
Vice President:              Mieko Nishimizu
Director:                    Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief:              Jean-Francois Bauer
Staff Member:                Joelle Chassard



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATE POWER DEVELOPMENT
(Loan 3630-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.                                                               I
A. Project Objectives ...............................................1I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................2
D. Project Sustainability ................................................5
E. Bank Performance.                                                                            5
F. Borrower Performance ................................................6
G. Guarantor Performance ................................................6
H. Assessment of Outcome.                                                                       6
I.  Future Operations ...............................................                           7
J.  Key Lessons Learned ................................................7
Part II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table I         Summary of Assessments
Table 2         Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3         Project Timetable
Table 4         Loan and Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated Actual
Table 5         Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6         Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7         Studies Included in Project
Table 8a        Project Costs
Table 8b        Project Financing
Table 9         Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10        Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13        Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATE POWER DEVELOPMENT
(Loan 3630-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Assistance Project
for Private Power Development (the Project) for which a Loan of US$20 million to the Power
Finance Corporation Limited (PFC), with the Guarantee of India, was approved on June 24,
1993. The Project became effective on August 23, 1993. The Loan was closed on December 31,
1996, after being extended from the original closing date of December 31, 1995. Final
disbursement took place May 21, 1997. In total, US$ 1,207,71 1.11 were disbursed and
US$ 18,792,288.89 remaining undisbursed in the Loan account were canceled as of May 21,
1997.
The ICR was prepared by Sunil Mathrani (Consultant) and reviewed by Mr. Jean
Fran,ois Bauer, Chief, Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division and Ms. Kazuko
Uchimura, Project Adviser, Country Department II, South Asia Region.
Because of budgetary considerations, no Implementation Completion Mission was
carried out. The ICR is based on material in the project file and information provided by the
Borrower. The Borrower's comments on the ICR have been included in the Preface and Part I as
footnotes.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATE POWER DEVELOPMENT
(Loan 3630-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Although inadequate power supply has long been a hindrance to economic growth in
India, no substantial attempt was made to encourage private investment in the sector till 1991,
when key legal obstacles were removed. Following the promotional efforts of the Government
of India (GOI) in 1992 to attract private capital to invest in the power sector, over thirty
Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) were rapidly signed by the state governments with
private developers seeking to set up as Independent Power Producers (IPPs). These MOUs were
signed on a first-come, first-served basis without competition between potential investors. State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) had to negotiate Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) without any
basis of comparison or any assurance that they were getting the best offers. After signing the
MOUs and PPAs, private developers submitted to GOI their requests for various guarantees.
2.    In contrast to the very experienced technical, legal and financial teams brought in by the
private sector, there was almost total inexperience on the part of the state governments. The
SEBs and the GOI authorities in dealing with the complex issues encountered during the
negotiations were inexperienced. The picture was made more complicated because of the non-
competitive nature of the selection process preceding the signature of MOUs and PPAs. Both the
Bank and GOI correctly felt that the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Power (MOP)
of GOI, appropriate authorities of the state governments, and the SEBs needed outside expertise
to assist them in negotiating with private investors, which led to the preparation of the Project.
However, towards the end of the appraisal process, as GOI did not want to borrow for technical
assistance, GOI and the Bank agreed that PFC would be the Borrower, while India would
guarantee the Loan. This decision restricted the proposed assistance to SEBs only. To
compensate for the fact that GOI would not have access to the loan, a PHRD grant of about
US$2 million was obtained to finance the technical assistance needs of GOI ministries (Power,
Finance).
Statement of Objectives
3.    The purpose of the Project was to ensure that the basic objectives of GOI's 1992 private
power development initiative were achieved. The Project therefore aimed to facilitate the
implementation of private power projects by establishing adequate administrative processes for
soliciting and evaluating project proposals and by providing outside expertise during negotiations
with project developers. As such, the Project had two specific objectives:



- 11 -
(i) to help manage the implementation of the GOI's private power policy during a
transitional period; and
(ii) to set the stage for the introduction of market mechanisms in the sector as a whole.
Achievement of Objectives
4.     The Project failed to meet its objectives because of the fundamental reluctance of the
SEBs to seek advice'. The Project's success was also closely linked to progress in the
development of private power production, which has turned out to be extremely slow. Despite a
one-year extension to the closing date, only US$1,207,711.11 (6 percent of the Loan) were
disbursed. GOI/Bank perception of SEB needs was not shared by the SEBs themselves. At the
same time, GOI was obliged to insist on the renegotiation of several draft project agreements and
PPAs between private investors and SEBs which had not received adequate advice.
Major Factors Affecting Achievement
5.     Slow pace of GOI's private power initiative and other sector reforms. At the time the
Loan was approved, a clear policy framework at the state level and creditworthy clients for the
IPPs were lacking. The shortcomings in power sector policies and the slow progress in
restructuring state power sectors or even in improving SEBs' finances have prevented a major
influx of private investment in power generation. This had consequent repercussions for the
project that was based on the expectation of a massive increase in private investment.
6.     Involvement of the Borrower (PFC) late in project processing and its unfamiliarity with
private power development. At the time the Loan was made, GOI was not willing to borrow
directly for technical assistance. It was at a late stage of project processing that GOI, the Bank
and PFC agreed that PFC was going to borrow under the guarantee of India. PFC was not
familiar with private power developmente. Thus, PFC was not the correct intermediary for the
3
Loan .
PFC does not agree with this assessment. With its letter dated April 22, 1997, PFC stated: "It would be
appropriate to state that the Project has partially met its objectives ... as four SEBs have utilized the services of
intemational consultants, which will have a demonstration effect for other states to follow."
2   PFC does not agree with this assessment. With its letter dated April 22, 1997, PFC stated: "It is incorrect to
state that PFC was unfamiliar with private power development. It was due to extraneous factors that the loan
could not be utilized to the expected level. It would be relevant to point out that PFC sanctioned subloans
totaling US$20.38 million. However, undue competition from PPF/other grants made available to SEBs by the
Multilateral Agencies and the undue delay in clearing the bid/other documents by the World Bank resulted in
that the SEBs got the loans cancelled." -- Bank's Note: It is noted that PPF advances were utilized for
consultants services for state power sector reform and not for the objectives of the Project.
3   PFC does not agree with this assessment. With its letter dated April 22, 1997, PFC stated: "Bank's direct
lending to the SEBs to meet the technical assistance financing requirements would not have made any
difference. Rather the Bank was right in choosing PFC as an interlocutor, as PFC is the only Financial
Institution that is totally dedicated to the Indian Power Sector and has the real feel of events taking place
therein."



- ill -
7.     SEBs were unwilling to seek external assistance for several reasons. The perception of
GOI and the Bank at the time of project preparation regarding the SEBs' "needs" for expert
advice was not shared by the latter. For reasons explained below, SEBs were unwilling to seek
external assistance:
a) Real Degree of Interest by Private Investors was Unknown. Initially it was
impossible for SEBs to assess the real degree of interest of private firms in investing,
which turned out to be much less than anticipated because of policy shortcomings
mentioned in para. 5 above.;
b) Services of International Financial and Legal Consultants are Very Expensive. The
high cost of specialized advisory services required in negotiating PPAs were an
additional deterrent to SEBs who were not accustomed to hiring international
consultants;
c) SEBs had a Marked Preference for Local Consultants. PFC and the SEBs generally
felt that with the exception of legal advice, there were competent local consultants
available to act as advisers. However, the Bank did not share their assessment of
local consulting capabilities and thus would not agree to fund the services of local
consultants alone under the Loan but insisted on mixed teams that would include
international project finance expertise;
d) SEBs may have been Unwilling to Share Sensitive Information with Outsiders. Some
SEBs may have been reluctant to permit outsiders to have access to details of
sensitive information on their negotiations with private firms;
e) PFC Onlending was Expensive. 4PFC's lending terms were found by SEBs to be
excessively high. The onlending terms of the proceeds of the Loan from PFC to the
SEBs were not defined prior to Board approval. Although during implementation,
PFC tried to adjust the onlending interest rate, the exchange risk still had to be fully
met by the SEBs; and
f) SEBs had Alternative Less Expensive Funding Sources. Some SEBs also had access
to bilateral grant funds which they logically preferred to use in preference to costly
borrowing from PFCs.
4   PFC does not agree with this assessment. With its letter dated April 22, 1997, PFC stated: "The onlending
rate of interest did at no point of time hinder the SEBs in utilizing the Loan. It is the SEBs' reluctance and
several sector policy issues and the high cost of international consultants that hampered its utilization."
With its letter dated April 22, 1997, PFC stated that PPF Advances were part of the less expensive competing
sources. It is once again noted that PPF Advances were utilized for consultants services for state power sector
reform and not for the objectives of the Project. (PPF Advances were approved for the Haryana, Uttar
Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar State Power Sector Restructuring (SPSR) Projects. In addition to a grant by the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the Government of the United Kingdom, the Bank also
agreed to use funds of the Upper Indravati Hydro Power Project (Cr. 1356-IN) for the Orissa SPSR).



- iv -
Project Sustainability
8.    The project is unlikely to be sustainable. PFC has the resources to continue lending to
SEBs for consulting services, should these latter wish to borrow, but there are few signs of a
changed outlook among most SEBs with regard to hiring outside expertise using borrowed funds.
However, the project's objectives may be furthered by the use of concessionary funds available
to some SEBs.
Bank Performance
9.    The Bank's response to GOI's request for the Project was very fast and the project went
from the preparation stage to negotiations in under three months. Given the simplicity of the
operation, it was decided that a formal appraisal mission was unnecessary. The Bank had
envisaged a loan to GOI with onlending to the states through central assistance, including PFC,
but as GOI was unwilling to borrow directly for technical assistance, PFC became the sole
borrower. This restricted the assistance to SEBs and the Bank did not fully evaluate its impact
on the Project. Overall, the quality of project design, preparation and appraisal was
unsatisfactory as a result of the rapidity of processing. Supervision was intense and carried out
regularly with the support of the Resident Mission. However, in light of the very little which
was achieved, it is assessed that supervision by the Bank was unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance
10.   PFC became the Borrower of the Loan and the agency responsible for the implementation
of the Project at a late stage of preparation and had been insufficiently involved in project
.6
preparation . During its familiarization with the issues and problems relating to private power
development, PFC faced difficulties in advising SEBs on the kind of assistance the latter needed.
Although PFC made efforts to 'market' the loan facility, and the low utilization rate of the loan
was outside PFC's control, overall Borrower performance is considered to have been
unsatisfactory.
Guarantor Performance
11.   Prior to negotiations, GOI could have done more to assess which entities needed most the
proposed technical assistance, and to evaluate the real degree of SEB interest in the Project.
Although during implementation, GOI tried to convince the SEBs of the benefits of the technical
assistance facility provided under the Loan, its performance as Guarantor is considered to have
been unsatisfactory.
6   With its letter dated April 22, 1997, PFC stated: "PFC's involvement at the project formulation stage would
have helped to avoid such a situation."



v -
Assessment of Outcome
12.    The project's outcome is unsatisfactory. The non-utilization of the Loan by some SEBs
has contributed to delays in the start of construction of private power plants because of the need
to renegotiate unsatisfactory PPAs at a late stage.
Future Operation
13.    PFC will provide SEBs with the funds necessary to meet their commitments under the
ongoing contracts with external consultants. SEBs will probably only seek fresh funds from PFC
for new advisory services if no other cheaper source of funds exists7. The Bank is focusing its
efforts directly on those states which appear ready to undertake sector reforms.
Key Lessons
14.    The key lessons to be learnt from this operation are:
i More attention should be devoted to assessing the real degree of interest in the
Project on the part of the ultimate beneficiaries.
* The correct financial intermediary should be selected -- the PFC was not the
correct intermediary for this Loan. A direct relationship between the Bank and
GOI and/or state governments and/or SEBs may have produced better results°.
However, at the time the Loan was made, GOI was not willing to borrow
directly for the technical assistance, even if the states were to be the final
beneficiaries.
7   With its letter dated April 22, 1997, PFC stated: "Multiplicity of the efforts made by the financial institutions
to support such a programme, without adopting a concerted effort has created more problems that solving
them."
8   A lesson of this findings was implemented in the States' Road Infrastructure Development Technical
Assistance Project (Ln. 4143-IN) approved in December 1996. Under this Project, the Borrower is India and
GOI will make the proceeds of the Loan available to the states entering into a Participation Agreement
(defined in the Loan Agreement for the Project) with GOI. There is thus no intermediary. However, PFC's
views on this subject are given in Footnote 3.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PRIVATE POWER DEVELOPMENT
(Loan 3630-IN)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    Although inadequate power supply has long been a hindrance to economic growth in
India, no substantial attempt was made to encourage private investment in the sector till 1991,
when key legal obstacles were removed. Following the promotional efforts of GOI in 1992 to
attract private capital to invest in the power sector, over thirty MOUs were rapidly signed by the
state governments with private developers seeking to set up as IPPs. These MOUs were signed
on a first-come, first-served basis without competition between potential investors. Then, SEBs
had to negotiate the PPAs. GOI and the Bank came to the conclusion that the state governments
and SEBs were signing the MOUs, subsequent project agreements and PPAs without any basis of
comparison or any assurance that they were getting the best offers. After signing the said
documents, private developers submitted to GOI their requests for various guarantees.
2.    In contrast to the very experienced technical, legal and financial teams brought in by the
private sector, there was almost total inexperience on the part of the state governments, SEBs and
GOI authorities, in dealing with the complex issues encountered during the negotiations. The
picture was made more complicated because of the non-competitive nature of the selection
process preceding the signature of MOUs and PPAs. Both the Bank and GOI correctly felt that
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Power (MOP) of GOI, appropriate authorities
of the state governments, and the SEBs needed outside expertise to assist them in negotiating
with private investors. This was strengthened by the experience of the Maharashtra State
Electricity Board (MSEB) and the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) in negotiating the very
first higher profile IPP offer by a multinational company, and by GOI authorities in reviewing
the request for guarantees. However, towards the end of the appraisal process, as GOI did not
want to borrow for technical assistance, GOI and the Bank agreed that PFC would be the
Borrower, while India would guarantee the Loan. This decision restricted the proposed
assistance to SEBs only. To compensate for the fact that GOI would not, as a result, have access
to the loan, a PHRD grant of about US$2 million was obtained to finance the technical assistance
needs of GOI ministries (Power, Finance).
Statement of Objectives
3.    The purpose of the Project was to ensure that the basic objectives of GOI's 1992 private
power development initiative were achieved. The Project therefore aimed to facilitate the
implementation of private power projects by establishing adequate administrative processes for



- 2 -
soliciting and evaluating project proposals and by providing outside expertise during negotiations
with project developers. As such, the Project had two specific objectives:
(i) to help manage the implementation of the GOI's private power policy during a
transitional period; and
(ii) to set the stage for the introduction of market mechanisms in the sector as a whole.
Evaluation of Objectives
4.    The Project's objectives were appropriate for several reasons. Firstly, there was a high
level of interest expressed by the private sector in setting up as IPPs, while at the same time there
was almost total inexperience on the part of SEBs in contracting for power purchases from the
private sector. Secondly, help in negotiating IPPs was also required because of the non-
competitive nature of the selection process preceding the signature of MOUs.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The Project failed to meet its objectives because of the fundamental reluctance of the
1          ~~~~~2
SEBs to seek advice . Only four SEBs were willing to utilize the available loan funds from the
Bank to hire outside expertise. The Project's success was also closely linked to progress in the
development of private power production, which has turned out to be extremely slow. Only two
IPPs have started producing electricity. Despite a GOI directive, only a few new generation
projects have been prepared and packaged for competitive bidding as the selection method for
new IPPs. Despite a one-year extension to the closing date, only US$ 1,207,711.11 (6 percent of
the Loan) were disbursed. At the same time, GOI was obliged to insist on the renegotiation of
several draft projects agreements and PPAs between private investors and SEBs which had not
received adequate advice. GOI/Bank perception of SEB needs was not shared by the SEBs
themselves (para. 8).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
6.    Slow pace of GOI's private power initiative and other sector reforms. At the time the
Loan was approved, GOI and the Bank had not yet concluded and recommended to the states that
to solve the SEBs' problems and reduce the fiscal burden the SEBs' financial situations were
putting on the finances of the states, the states needed to reorient their policies from
strengthening the SEBs towards restructuring their power systems. This came in October 1993
during and just after a Bank-organized seminar in Jaipur, Rajasthan. Therefore, at approval, a
clear policy framework at the state level and creditworthy clients were lacking. Even so-called
"fast-track" projects suffered considerable delays due to unresolved policy and regulatory issues,
I  Evaluation Summary, Footnote 1.
2  These SEBs were: Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB); Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB); Andhra
Pradesh Electricity Board (APSEB); and Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB). The above SEBs signed
five contracts with five internationally known consulting firms. The total cost of these five contracts is about
US$2.5 million.



- 3 -
difficulties in obtaining administrative clearances and the need for financial guarantees to
reassure private investors. These shortcomings in power sector policies and the slow progress in
restructuring state power sectors or even in improving SEBs' finances have prevented a major
influx of private investment in power generation, with consequent repercussions for a project
based on the expectation of a massive increase in private investment.
7.    Involvement of the Borrower (PFC) late in project processing and its unfamiliarity
with private power development. At the time the Loan was made, GOI was not willing to
borrow directly for technical assistance. It was at a late stage of project processing that GOI, the
Bank and PFC agreed that PFC was going to borrow under the guarantee of India. Thus, PFC
involved in the project at a late stage in its preparation. Instead of waiting till negotiations, GOI
should have made it clear to the Bank at an earlier stage that it was unwilling to borrow directly
for technical assistance. This would have given the Bank time to consider alternative ways of
structuring the loan rather than channeling it exclusively through PFC. In addition, PFC was not
familiar with private power development3. Thus, PFC was not the correct intermediary for the
4
Loan.
8.    SEBs were unwilling to seek external assistance for several reasons. The perception of
GOI and the Bank at the time of project preparation regarding the SEBs' "needs" for expert
advice was not shared by the latter. Confronted by a flood of MOUs, the concern of GOI that
many SEBs would enter into unfavorable contractual arrangements was legitimate at the time.
This perception was reinforced by the request from GOM and MSEB to use Bank funds from a
separate loan to finance assistance in evaluating investment proposals from a private firm (para.
2). However, the example of Maharashtra turned out to be unrepresentative, rather than an
indicator of widespread SEB willingness to seek outside help. For reasons explained below,
SEBs were unwilling to seek external assistance:
a) Real Degree of Interest by Private Investors was Unknown. Initially it was
impossible for SEBs to assess the real degree of interest of private firms in investing,
which turned out to be much less than anticipated because of policy shortcomings
mentioned in (i) above. In some cases, SEBs were justifiably reluctant to hire
expensive consultants to assist in evaluating MOUs which had little prospect of
proceeding. Consequently, the number of contracts to be negotiated by SEBs with
IPPs turned out to be far less than expected when the project was prepared, with the
result that the real demand for the consulting services available under the project was
also significantly below GOI and Bank expectations;
b) Services of International Financial and Legal Consultants are Very Expensive.
The high cost of specialized advisory services required in negotiating PPAs were an
additional deterrent to SEBs who were not accustomed to hiring international
consultants. The type of highly specialized international financial and legal
3 Evaluation Summary, Footnote 2.
4  Evaluation Summary, Footnote 3.



- 4 -
consultant services required in negotiating PPAs are costly (US$ 3,000-4,000/day),
even by the standards of the international consulting business;
c) SEBs had a Marked Preference for Local Consultants. PFC and the SEBs generally
felt that with the exception of legal advice, there were competent local consultants
available to act as advisers. However, the Bank did not share their assessment of
local consulting capabilities in this particular field and thus would not agree to short-
list consultants on their own because these local consultants had no experience with
the subject matter5. Several SEBs who may otherwise have drawn on the Bank loan
hired local consultants instead, using other funds;
d) SEBs may have been Unwilling to Share Sensitive Information with Outsiders.
Some SEBs may have been reluctant to permit outsiders to have access to details of
sensitive information on their negotiations with private firms;
e) PFC Onlending was Expensive6. PFC's lending terms were found by SEBs
excessively high. The onlending terms of the proceeds of the Loan from PFC to the
SEBs were not defined prior to Board approval. According to the President's
Report7, it was expected that onlending would be on terms "close" to those agreed for
the Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project (Ln. 3436-IN). PFC initially
proposed to lend at an interest rate of 15 percent per annum as well as pass on the
foreign exchange risk to the SEBs, which was considered to be excessively high,
given that the rate on the Loan was only 7.43 percent. The lending terms were the
subject of extensive and protracted discussions between the Bank and PFC during the
first year of project implementation and were not finalized till April 1994, when an
effective rate of 13.5 percent8 was adopted. This delay hindered PFC's ability to
market the Loan to SEBs. Faced with SEB reluctance to utilize the facility, PFC
lowered the onlending rate first to 1 1.5 percent in late 1995 and then 10 percent, but
the exchange risk still had to be fully met by the SEBs; and
f) SEBs had Alternative Less Expensive Funding Sources. Some SEBs also had
access to bilateral grant funds which they logically preferred to use in preference to
costly borrowing from PFC9.
5   The Bank suggested that because of lack of knowledge of the IPP sector, local consultants would be
considered eligible for Bank-financed contracts if they submitted joint proposals with a foreign partner. Local
consulting firms were unwilling to do so because they were able to obtain sufficient non-Bank financed
contracts without entering into joint ventures.
6   Evaluation Summary, Footnote 4.
7   Only a President's Report was prepared as this was a technical assistance project.
8   Including a 1% commitment fee on undisbursed balances.
9   Evaluation Summary, Footnote 5.



- 5 -
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
9.    The project is unlikely to be sustainable. PFC has the resources to continue lending to
SEBs for consulting services, should these latter wish to borrow, but there are few signs of a
changed outlook among most SEBs with regard to hiring outside expertise using borrowed funds.
However, the project's objectives may be furthered by the use of concessionary funds available
to some SEBs.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
10.   At the time of project preparation, rapidity in processing the operation seemed important,
given the number of MOUs, lack of precision in GOI guidelines and need for the Indian
authorities to respond to potential investors in a timely way. The Bank response was very fast
and the project went from the preparation stage to negotiations in under three months. Given the
simplicity of the operation, it was decided that a formal appraisal mission was unnecessary. This
decision later had repercussions on the pace and success of project implementation. For
example, the decision to make PFC the sole and direct borrower from the Bank was taken at a
late stage of preparation, just shortly before negotiations. The Bank had envisaged a loan to
GOI with onlending to the states through central assistance, including PFC, but as GOI was
unwilling to borrow directly for technical assistance, PFC became the sole borrower. A less
compressed processing schedule may also have resulted in a more accurate evaluation of the real
level of needsl° and interest among SEBs in availing themselves of the funds offered by the
project. The Bank was conscious of the risk" I to the project from Indian public sector
organizations' well-known reluctance to use outside assistance, but appears to have
underestimated it. Overall, the quality of project design, preparation and appraisal was
unsatisfactory as a result of the rapidity of processing.
11.   Supervision was intense and carried out regularly with the support of the Resident
Mission. There was useful continuity of task management responsibility from preparation to
loan closure. Considerable resources amounting to 66.1 staff weeks (costing US$126,500) were
used on supervision over a three and a half-year period. That means that to have one US dollar
utilized under the Loan, the Bank had to spend 12 cents, which proved that the Project was a very
expensive one for the Bank. It may have been preferable to have transferred formal
responsibility for task management to the Resident Mission to facilitate Bank reviews and
clearances. However, in the early stage of project implementation, there was no experienced
staff available in the Resident Mission to take over this task. The Loan was extended by a year,
based on the expectation that SEBs' procurement of consulting services and hence disbursements
would pick up, but this proved to be incorrect. With hindsight, the loan should not have been
extended. Based on the above, it is assessed that supervision by the Bank was unsatisfactory.
°  In hindsight it is concluded that GOI Ministries and state governments needed the proposed technical
assistance as much as the SEBs.
"  Para. 17 of the President's Report recognizes the negative impact this could have on disbursements.



- 6 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
12.   PFC became the Borrower of the Loan and the agency responsible for the implementation
of the Project at a late stage of preparation and had been insufficiently involved in project
12
preparation  . PFC staff assigned to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) were initially
unfamiliar with private power development and with Bank procurement requirements. Contrary
to what was agreed at negotiations, PFC never recruited any outside assistance to support the PIU
in its initial period. Thus during its period of familiarization with the issues and problems
relating to private power development, PFC faced difficulties in advising SEBs on the kind of
assistance the latter needed. Difficulties were also experienced in reaching agreement with the
Bank on the terms of reference (TORs) and letters of invitation for the initial consulting
assignments'3. PFC later made efforts to 'market' the loan facility, but for reasons outlined in
para. 8, its efforts did not lead to a sharp increase in loan utilization. Even though the crucial
factors behind the low utilization rate of the loan were outside PFC's control, overall Borrower
performance is considered to have been unsatisfactory.
G. GUARANTOR PERFORMANCE
13.   Prior to negotiations, GOI could have done more to evaluate the real degree of SEB
interest in the Project. A more realistic assessment of entities needing the proposed assistance
would have shown to GOI that the SEB demand would have led to a smaller loan and would
have focused efforts sooner on marketing the facility to SEBs. However, even though GOI in
general and the Ministry of Power (MOP) in particular repeatedly advocated greater utilization of
the Loan by the SEBs, their ability to ensure that SEBs sought expert advice was greatly limited
given that such decision laid entirely with the states and SEBs. Instead of waiting till
negotiations, GOI should also have made it clear to the Bank at an earlier stage that it was
unwilling to borrow directly for Technical Assistance. Therefore, the performance of the
Guarantor is considered to have been unsatisfactory.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
14.   The project's outcome is unsatisfactory. The non-utilization of the Loan by some SEBs
has contributed to delays in the start of construction of private power plants because of the need
to renegotiate unsatisfactory PPAs at a late stage. Some of the necessary advisory services to
SEBs have been adequately provided under other sources of financing, but in numerous cases
SEBs have preferred to manage without outside help. Given this reluctance, it appears that the
Loan was oversized and premature. On the other hand, had GOI and the Bank realized at
appraisal that SEBs would be very reluctant to use the funds, the operation may have been
12  Evaluation Summary, Footnote 6.
3  With its letter dated April 22, 1997, PFC stated: "The Bank's supervision was too tight to permit any
flexibility to accomodate the concerns of the SEBs while hiring the services of consultants. Moreover,
supervision from Washington instead at Delhi caused undue delay in getting the Bank's "no-objection" and
other clearances." It is noted that PFC's above statement is not warranted, as Bank staff applied the Bank
Guidelines for the Employment of Consultants.



- 7 -
dropped or at least redesigned and reduced to a smaller loan. The Japanese PHRD grant
assistance for power sector reforms (which was already in place at that time), would have
sufficed to cover the limited demand for external consultants from SEBs. Finally, for PFC the
Loan has been financially costly, due to the low level of onlending. It has been unable to recoup
from the SEBs the commitment charges paid by it on the undisbursed Bank loan. The Loan was
also a costly one for the Bank (para. 11).
I. FUTURE OPERATION
15.   PFC will provide SEBs with the funds necessary to meet their commitments under the
ongoing contracts with external consultants. SEBs will probably only seek fresh funds from PFC
for new advisory services if no other cheaper source of funds exists'4. The Bank is focusing its
efforts directly on those states which appear ready to undertake sector reforms.
J. KEY LESSONS
16.   The key lessons to be learnt from this operation are:
+  More attention should be devoted to assessing the real degree of interest in the
Project on the part of the ultimate beneficiaries.
*   The correct financial intermediary should be selected -- the PFC was not the correct
intermediary for this Loan (para. 7). A direct relationship between the Bank and
15
GOI and/or state governments and/or SEBs may have produced better results
However, at the time the Loan was made, GOI was not willing to borrow directly
for the technical assistance, even if the states were to be the final beneficiaries.
14  Evaluation Summay, Footnote 7.
5  Evaluation Summary, Footnote 8.



- 8 -
Part II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial      Negligible   Not applicable
Macroeconomics policies              0             0             0              U
Sector policies                      0             0             *              0
Financial objectives                 0             0             *              O
Institutional development            0             D              *             O
Physical objectives                  0             0             0
Poverty reduction                    0             0             0              U
Gender issues                        0             O             0              U
Environmental objectives             0             0             0              U
Public sector management             0             0             *              O
Private sector development           0             0              *             0
B. Projet Sustainability            Likely       Unlikely             Uncertain
0             *                    0
C. Bank performance               Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                            O                   0O
Preparation assistance                    0                   0                U
Appraisal                                 0  
Supervision                               0                  0                 U
D. Borrower and Guarantor         Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
performance
Preparation                               0                  O
Implementation                            0                   0                U
Covenant compliance                       0                   *                0
E. Assessment of outcome          Highly satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
Unsatisfactory
0                                  0



- 9 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose                    Year of          Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Power Utilities Efficiency         (a) To make PFC an          January 28, 1992   On-going
Improvement Project (Ln. 3436-IN)    effective instrument for
improving the power sector;
(b) to strengthen the
operations of the beneficiary
utilities; (c) to foster better
use of existing power
facilities; (d) to mitigate the
adverse environmental
impact of thermal plants in
operation; and (e) to improve
the preparation of power
projects.
Subsequent Operations
None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Planned                Actual
Preparation                                                         February 15, 1993
Appraisal                                                           No formal mission
Negotiations                                                           May 6, 1993
Board Presentation                                                    June 24, 1993
Signing                                                                July 7, 1993
Effectiveness                              September 15, 1993        August 23, 1993
Loan Closing                               December 31, 1995        December 31, 1996
Last Disbursement                                                     May 21, 1997
Cancelation of Undisbursed Balance                                    May 21, 1997
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million)
FY-94        FY-95          FY-96         FY-97
Appraisal Estimate                      7.0          17.0          20.0          20.0
Actual                                  0.0           0.0           0.4            1.2
Actual as % of SAR Estimate             0.0           0.0           2.0           6.0
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No key indicators for Project Implementation were given in the President's Report.



- 10-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for Project Operation were given in the President's Report.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No studies were carried out
Table 8a: Project Costs (US$ million)
______________________________    A           Appraisal 0Estimate   ;S 0:Actual
Local      Foreign
Costs        Costs            Total
Consultancy Services          2.2          16.8            19.0                2.7
Equipment                     0.9           0.6              1.5               0.0
Total Project Costs           3.1          17.4            20.5                2.7
Table 8b: Project Financing
Appraisal  'lit (U$  iniBion)    Actu  (USS wfllion):
Local   Foreign
Source               Costs      Costs         Total                  Total
IBRD (Ln. 3630-IN) *           2.6       17.4         20.0                     1.2
IBRD (Ln. 3436-IN) **--                    --           --                     1.5
PFC                            0.5        --           0.5                   N.A.
Total                          3.1       17.4         20.5                     2.7
A The Loan for the Project.
* * The Loan for the Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project.
Table 9: Project Economic Evaluation
No economic rate of return was calculated at the time of appraisal.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
;0:Section    Typ0040be 000|00Statusf fl0Description       Comment
Loan Agreement
3.02              C        PFC's onlending terms to be    Agreement was slow to be
approved by the Bank          reached.
5.01 (a),   I     C        Standard covenant on accounting  Yes.
(b), (c)                   and auditing.



- I1 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable OD or OP.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual
Staff Weeks                US$ thousand
Through appraisal                               15.7                          40.2
Appraisal to Board                               9.3                          31.6
Supervision                                     66.1                         126.5
Completion                                       3.2                           8.7
TOTAL                                           94.3                         207.0
(*/. Supervision to the end of FY 96 only. Figs. for FY 97 need to be added)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Supervision Missions
I _.________ _.________   ______ _._ __________ __       Performance  Rating
Month/Year   Number of   Days in   Specialized    Implementation  Development    Types of
Persons      field    Staff Skills      Status        Impact        Problems
Represented
July 1993       3           10      FAs, ES              l             I
June 1994       3           10      FAs, EA             S              S        Procurement
Oct. 1994       3      |            FAs, ES             * *
June 1995       3 X l    __L X |FAs, ES                 LI             U        Procurement
Nov. 1995        3           2      FAs, ES              *              *        Procurement
July 1996        1          2       FA                 U*              U        Procurement
FA:  Financial Analyst (from Headquarters and Resident Mission)
ES:  Energy Specialist (from Resident Mission.
* No Implementation Summary (Form 590) was prepared.






MAP SECTION









IMAGING
Report No.:         16617
Type:     ICR



