Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Technical Assistance (Private Power Development) Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated March 15, 1994
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1994, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT 
OF JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, 
to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, 
in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant (the 
Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
Page  2
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following modifications thereto:
(a)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank referred to in Recital (A) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(b)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
(c)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(e)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, shall 
be amended to read the Grant Account;
(f)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(g)
Section 4.01. shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have 
been paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at the request 
of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal.";
(h)
Sections 2.01 (5), (7), (12), (13), (14), (15), (16), (17) and (19), 
3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10, 6.02 (a)(i), 
6.02 (g), 6.02 (h), 6.05, 6.07, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.01 (b), 9.02, 9.03, 10.02, 12.01, 
12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05 are deleted;
(i)
the second and third sentences of Section 4.09 are deleted; and
(j)
all references to "the Guarantor," wherever such term is used in the 
General Conditions, shall not apply to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires: (a) the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals 
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and (b) the terms 
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount of two hundred 
forth-six million yen (¥246,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Technical Assistance.
Page  3
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods and consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical 
Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
     (ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine (9) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; 
and
    (iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, 
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of 
the Recipient shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions;
For the Recipient:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS                953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  4
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDIA
By /s/ N. Valluri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
    % of
  (Expressed
       Expenditures
Category              in Yen)    
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'  
  243,250,000
100%
      services 
(2)
Equipment
    2,750,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
TOTAL    246,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient's private power 
initiative by refining the existing policy framework, by providing general guidance to 
Page  5
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) and other power utilities in implementing said policy, 
by creating a proper environment for private developers to mobilize financial 
resources, by reviewing fuel supply policies, and by formulating a proper regulatory 
framework in the power sector.
The technical assistance would include:
A.
Private Power Policy
The carrying out of a comprehensive review of the current private power 
environment at the Center and State levels.
B.
Guidance to State Governments and SEBs
The development of procedural guidelines for use by the State Governments and 
SEBs to facilitate development of power projects and to maintain consistency with the 
general policy.
C.
Institution Building and Training
The carrying out of a program of training of mid-level and senior management of 
Center and State level agencies to acquire necessary skills to process, assess and 
negotiate private power proposals.
D.
Resource Mobilization
The carrying out of a detailed assessment of the financing issues in the 
implementation of private power development policy of the Recipient.
E.
Fuel Supply Policy
The carrying out of a review of the fuel supply policy of the Recipient in the 
light of its adequacy for the private power development in the new environment.
F.
Private Sector Participation Alternatives
The formulation of detailed policy regarding the promotion of private sector 
participation in areas other than generation.
G.
Regulatory Framework
The carrying out of an assessment of the adequacy of present regulatory 
framework to the changed environment with a view to making adjustments to ensure a 
smooth and efficient interface between the public and private sector providers.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
1.
Goods may be procured through limited international bidding procedures on the 
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three 
qualified suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992.
2.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part, the Recipient shall 
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Administrator, with such 
modifications thereto as the Administrator shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Administrator, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Administrator.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be 
Page  6
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Administrator in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the 
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
