Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2622-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIO1:AL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME1
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SELF-MANAGING REPUBLIC COMMUNITY OF INTEREST FOR R
OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT - Hi
August 31, 1979
This docnent ha a restricted dlsbtlon sod may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their omiclal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                                      Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                             Din.18.70
-  Din.l                                            US$0.0535
Din.1,000                                        US$53.48
Din.1,000,000                                    US$53.476
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973; as of
June 29, 1979 the rate was Din.19.076 = US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COI                    Community of Interest
IBT                  = Investment Bank of Titograd - Associated Bank
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
LDR                  = Less Developed Region
MCS                    Mercalli Intensity Scale
SFRY                 = Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
USAID                = United States Agency for International Development



-ru  01Uitq.IAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Self-Managing Republic Community of Interest for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, Titograd
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:              US$21.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including a 3-year grace
period, with interest at 7.90 percent per annum.
Project
Description:         The proposed project provides assistance to the
Socialist Republic of Montenegro in restoring about
560 km of main and regional roads damaged in the
earthquakes of April 15 and May 24, 1979.
Economic Benefits:  BerLefits comprise the restoration of the movement
of goods and people over the projects roads to an
effective level. All affected roads carried con-
siderable volumes of traffic; their closure or
restriction to limited usage would affect adversely
all sectors of the economy.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              In view of the urgency to process this project no
separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared to
accompany this Report.
Estimated Cost:                      US$ Million                Bank
Local   Foreign    Total    Participation
Main Roads:
Adriatic Highway            34.42    16.95      51.37         16.95
Titograd-Cetinje
- Budva                      3.64      1.79      5.43          1.79
Regional Roads                 4.57      2.26      6.83          2.26
Total                       42.63    21.00      63.63         21.00
This document has ^k rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofkicial dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financial Plan:                                               US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD Loan                                       -        21.00       21.00
Republics'/Provinces Contributions            42.63        -         42.63
Total                                    42.63       21.00       63.63
Estimated
Disbursements:                                                 US$ Million
FY80     FY81      FY82
Annual                                    10.08      7.92      3.00
Cumulative                                10.08    18.00    21.00



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
SELF-M4ANAGINIG REPUBLIC COMMUNITY OF INTEREST FOR ROADS
OF THE SOCIAL]:ST REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO, WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$21 miLlion to Self-Managing Republic Community of Interest
for Roads of the Socia:List Republic of Montenegro, with the guarantee of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to finance the estimated foreign
exchange costs of a project for the rehabilitation of highways in the SR
Montenegro which were damaged in the earthquakes of April and May 1979. The
loan would bear interest at the rate of 7.9 percent per annum and would have
a term of 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and Novem-
ber 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, enter-
prises and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social
development. It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector is comprised predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by the
principle of workers self-management bringing with it its own set of unique
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
gradually evolved over the years with important new changes introduced in the
Constitution of 1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend the decision
making power of workers. The federative structure of the state has been
strengthened. Responsibility for important social and economic decisions has
been shifted from the federation to the republics and provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers, through their workers' collectives, over
the socially owned means of production has been potentially increased by a
1/   Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recormendation of the President for the Croatia Sava Drainage
Project (Report No. P-2558a-YU) of August 14, 1979.



-2-
restructuring of all economic organizations. All economic organizations e.g.
enterprises, now consist of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Asso-
ciated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a
marketable output. The creation of BOALs as the basic decision making cell
provides workers with a more wieldy unit to manage particularly as the product
of their work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.        In addition to strengthening decision-making power of workers at the
micro level, recent changes have extended workers' self-management to the
macroeconomic sphere. New instruments of macro-economic policy have been
introduced which are formulated on the basis of participation of all economic
agents. These new measures are expected to strengthen macro-economic manage-
ment. The impact of these changes is apparent in incomes, prices and employ-
ment policy and in the foreign exchange and commercial policy. The most
significant development, however, is the introduction of a new system of
planning.
5.        The new system of planning--self-management planning--is based as
in central planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of the
economy. Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the form
of medium term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus
reflecting a strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp
contrast to central planning, plan formulation is based on participation of
all economic units, including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. Following an exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process
involves a series of iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of
economic units. Once an acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, eco-
nomic units enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply and
demand. In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date the state
can impose a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural trans-
formation. GDP between 1954-75 grew at an average annual rate of about 7
percent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high through-
out the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since population
grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than tripled
during the period to an estimated $1,960 at 1977 market prices. 1/ The social
sector, in particular industry, was the driving force of the economy. The
share of industry in GDP has increased to 47 percent while agriculture has
declined to 16 percent, paving the way for development of a modern industry/
service oriented urban society. The past two decades have also been asso-
ciated with a growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy.
Between 1954-76 exports and imports of goods and non-factor services have
grown by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent per annum in real terms, respec-
tively; much of this in the convertible currency areas.
1/ According to the 1978 World Bank Atlas.



-3 -
7.        Although Yugoslavia's overall performance has been impressive,
Yugoslavia has been characterized by large regional income disparities. Four
of the regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with
two-thirds of the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, with one-
third, are officially dlesignated as less developed regions (LDpq). The differ-
ence between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. Parallel to these inter-regional disparities there are
large intraregional per capita disparities ranging 10 to 1 between communes.
These differences are a product of diverse factors notably differing shares of
the low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable demographic conditions
e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Until recently
regional income disparities tended to widen. Since 1971 sizeable concessionary
credits (with about 50 percent grant element), equal to about 9.3 percent of
the GDP of the LDRs in 1974, have been transferred to the LDRs through the
Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions.
8.        Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the expanding modern
sector. Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by
around 4 percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large
productivity and incomEe differentials exist between the modern (mainly social)
and the traditional (private agricultural) sectors. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in
1973 Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973,
with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing considerable
pressure on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly from about 7 percent in 1971 to nearly 13 percent in 1976. 1/
This problem has taken an added urgency as the incidence of unemployment has
been highly regionalized. In 1975 unemployment rates ranged from 23.5 percent
in Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years has been charac-
terized by stop-go policies and cyclical behavior. Periods of rapid economic
growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of payments diffi-
culties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic activity. This
has been followed by periods of relatively modest growth and improvements in
the balance of payments situation. In 1974, rapid domestic economic growth,
1/   These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered unemployment to social sector
labor force. The ratio of registered unemployment to total resident
labor force would have been about 7.5 percent in 1976.



- 4 -
recession in Western Europe and higher oil prices resulted in a sharp deterio-
ration of the balance of payments situation and a $1.2 billion current account
deficit. In the same year domestic inflation (retail prices) fueled by
-itkrnal. paice rises, accelerated to 26 percent. Both 1975 and 1976 were
marked by policies aimed at stabilizing the economy through moderating the
rate of growth, improving the balance of payments situation and reducing
inflation.  GDP grew by 3.6 percent per annum in 1975 and 3.9 percent in 1976,
well below the historical trend rate. Weak domestic demand reduced import
requirements and placed pressure on enterprises to export. This, and the
recovery of activity in the OECD, led to a 15 percent real increase in
merchandise exports in 1976. Merchandise imports during the same period fell
by 7 percent. As a result, the current account deficit was transformed to a
surplus of $165 million. Inflation also dropped perceptibly to 9 percent.
This was partly due to slack domestic demand but also due to stringent price
controls.
10.       A strong upturn in economic activity driven by a revival in invest-
ment activity began in mid-1976 and has continued since. There was a rapid
increase in money supply in 1976. Enterprises began to adjust to the new
financial and accounting system introduced early in 1976 which, through
increasing financial accountability of enterprises, had been an important
factor in dampening the level of economic activity in early 1976. GDP is
estimated to have grown by 8.1 percent and the industrial sector by 9.6 per-
cent in 1977. This upturn led to a revival of inflationary pressure and a
sharp deterioration in the balance of payments situation. Inflation increased
to 13 percent, exports declined in real terms by 4 percent and imports rose
by 15 percent. The current account recorded a deficit of $1.6 billion. There
was some slackening in the level of economic activity in 1978. GDP is esti-
mated to have increased by 6.6 percent despite a drop in agricultural produc-
tion of 5 percent due to adverse weather conditions. The current account
deficit is estimated to have fallen to around $1.0 billion. The rate of
inflation is estimated to be 13 percent. Policies for 1979 aim at maintaining
a 6 percent growth in GDP, a 5 percent growth of exports, a 2 percent growth
in imports and a current account deficit of around $1.2 billion. Preliminary
trends in 1979 indicate that although the economy has continued to grow
rapidly, growth has been associated with a rapidly deteriorating balance-of-
payments situation. This has been a consequence of a sharp revival in demand
for imports following a year in which import volume declined and has been
exacerbated by the rise in the price of oil and less favorable prospects for
tourism following the devastating earthquake of April 15 in the coastal areas
of Montenegro. Oil price increases are likely to add a further $0.5 billion
to the import bill in 1979. This, and the anticipated more rapid growth of
imports than exports, is likely to lead to a sharp deterioration in the
current account deficit to over $2 billion in 1979.
11.       Despite the uneven growth rate of GDP since 1974, employment has
expanded steadily and rapidly. Akn important factor in this has been the
social pressure on enterprises to create additional work places. Employment
grew by 4.5 percent per annum between 1974 and 1978. Labor productivity has,
as a result, grown little during this period. Since real personal incomes
have continued to rise, unit labor costs have risen.



Medium- and Long-Term Obiectives and Prospects
12.       The external events of 1973 and 1974 had an important impact on
Yugoslavia's medium-term outlook, particularly in two areas. The first was
the balance of payments. The sharp increase in the price of oil led to a
sudden inctease in the country's import bill.  More importantly, the decline
in the number of Yugoslav workers abroad inhibited the growth of workers'
remittances, which account for about one fifth of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange
earnings. The prospects for growth of merchandise exports also deteriorated
because of the slower growth in Western Europe. The balance of payments
consequently became a more binding constraint on economic growth. The second
area was employment. External migration was a key factor in allowing the
low-productivity, private agricultural labor force to decline rapidly between
1965-73. Return of Yugoslav workers placed considerable pressure on the labor
market and in particular the social sector, which is the main source of new
jobs.
13.       The policy response to these issues was the 1976-80 Five Year
Plan which foresaw important structural changes to deal with the new external
circumstances. On the question of the balance of payments, Yugoslavia,
by and large, opted for the import substitution route. To ensure greater
self-sufficiency the Plan called for a major restructuring of the economy
with emphasis on raw materials and intermediate goods, and particularly the
power sector. Included in the priority sectors were basic chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, parts of non-ferrous metallurgy, agriculture, food processing and
inter-republic transportation. These were areas where production had lagged
and where import dependency had increased most after 1965, despite consider-
able possibilities for local production. Rapid expansion of employment
opportunities remained one of the key objectives of the plan. To compensate
for the generally more capital-intensive investments involved in developing
raw materials and intermediate goods, a number of measures were introduced to
ensure a sufficiently rapid growth of employment opportunities. Emphasis was
placed on development of labor-intensive activities and small scale industry.
An employment policy was adopted to facilitate an orderly growth of work
opportunities in existing enterprises. New incentives were also provided
to the private sector to encourage investment in productive activities. These
measures were expecte.d to lead to a 3-4 percent growth in modern sector work
places. Such a growth would be sufficient to absorb returning migrants and
some outflow of worke,rs from the agricultural sector albeit at a slower pace
than in the past decade.
14.       To achieve these objectives the plan foresaw a growth in GDP of
7.0 percent. Exports were projected to rise by 8.5 percent in constant
dollars. However, imaports were projected to rise by only 4.5 percent reflect-
ing the significant degree of import substitution anticipated.  Such a sharp
fall in import growth, however, appeared somewhat excessive and not likely to
be attainable during the plan period. Consequently, if Yugoslavia adhered to
the ceiling it set in the plan on the level of indebtedness and debt service
ratio, a somewhat more modest overall economic growth rate of 5-6 percent was
likely to be achieved.



6 -
15.       Developments in the first three years o- fhe plan period have been
mixed. The economy has grown rapidly as planned (average annual growth of
of GDP of 6.2 percent) and modern sector employtnent opportunities have also
increased significantly. Howe5;er, merchandise exporL growth at 2.6 percent
per annum has been very disappointing. The current account deficit has been
kept in check by limiting merchandise import growth to 1.8 percent per annum
since 1976. Despite this, external indebtedness has increased significantly
and will be further exacerbated with the anticipated deterioration in the
balance-of-payments situation in 1979. Thus, although the economy is likely
to achieve a 5-6 percent overall economic growth rate for the peniod 1976-80,
the balance-of-payments situatior is worse than anticipated.  Consequently to
deal with the deteriorating balance-of-payments situation Yugoslavia will need
to accept a more moderate medium-term growth target and instigate policies
designed to improve the country's export performance. Based on the recent
trends in external borrowing and our balance-of-payments projections, Yugo-
slavia is expected, even with slower growth, to experience gradually rising
debt service ratios in the early 1980s. The Yugoslavs, aware of the balance-
of-payments situation, are presently introducing stabilization measures to
curb the rate of economic growth.  They are also in the process of reassessing
the economy's medium-term growth targets.
16.       Finally, the reduction of regional disparities is also a priority
objective of the plan. The previous financial transfer mechanism continues
as the principal instrument for regional development. However, in addition
to this, provisions have been made for direct joint venture investment by
enterprises in the developed, into the less developed regions. This measure.
is expected to facilitate a transfer of managerial and technological know-how
in addition to the financial transfers of the past few years.  The regional
problem, however, is expected to remain as one of the least tractable issues
facing the Yugoslav economy and one that will only be resolved in the longer
run.
Creditworthiness
17.       In the period 1974-77 gross capital inflows averaged just over $2.0
billion per annum increasing the total level of medium- and long-term debt
outstanding and disbursed to $8.9 billion by the end of 1977. About 75 per-
cent of Yugoslavia's debt contracted during this period was contracted from
commercial sources in convertible currencies. The bulk of this has been
suppliers credits though financial credits in the Euro-currency market have
become increasingly important in financing the economy's residual external
capital needs. The World Bank is the principal source of non-commercial
long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to need substantial
credits in the commercial markets to achieve its medium-term economic objec-
tives. The debt service ratio averaged 17 between 1974-78. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to over 20 in the early 1980s in spite of lower
anticipated growth rates of GDP. Given Yugoslavia's past debt service record,
pragmatism and demonstrable control over the balance of payments, Yugoslavia
remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.



-7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.       The Bank has made 55 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,266
million. Of this amount, approximately 44 percent ($1,004.4 million) has been
for 19 loans for the transportation sector--10 for highways, 5 ror railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components). Seven loans totalling $343 mil-
lion (about 15 percent of the total amount lent to Yugoslavia) have been made
for agriculture (including two for irrigation) and agro-industries. Fourteen
loans amounting to $300 million (about 13 percent of the total) have also
been made for industry and two for tourism amounting to $30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in twelve Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about $172 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of July 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i)  to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii) to promote alyricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(iii) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that eac:h and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the LDRs, but the
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the Report and Recommendation of
the President on a loan for the Croatia Sava Drainage Project (Report No.
P-2558a-YU) of August 14, 1979.



-8-
basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been
towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. Moreover, lending to regions other than
the LDRs frequently has had as its basis the alleviation of disparities be-
tween the urban and rural areas. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.        In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending, as
noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as the
Tenth Highway Project (approved March 27, 1979), the Bosanska-Krajina Agricul-
ture and Agro-Industries Project (approved October 5, 1978), the Macedonia
Strezevo Irrigation Project (approved August 8, 1978) and the Third and Fourth
Industrial Credit Projects (approved July 11, 1978), as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for water supply
and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agricultural development,
emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs. Previously
approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a Fifth Railway Project (Fiscal
Year 1978) and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power project (also Fiscal Year 1978),
as well as the Second Power Transmission Project approved in Fiscal Year 1977,
will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and
energy sectors. This proposed Croatia Sava Drainage Project will increase
incomes of the disadvantaged rural population in a relatively well developed
region and reduce the disparities in incomes between the rural and urban popu-
lation. IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities
to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical, management and
marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.



- 9-
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture aad clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for agricultural credits, irriga-
tion and rural developtaent will support agriculture development in general and
in particular, the individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the ccmplexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where sig-
nificant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essen-
tial for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework
for the transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No.
1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmis-
sion system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will
enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all Republics/Provinces.



- 10 -
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address
the critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the
Yugoslavs are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to
Western financial markets and institutions (including the European Investment
Bank), there is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The
Bank, therefore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not
only constitutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally
important, is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 9.2 percent of
Yugoslavia's total debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to
the Bank is expected to remain a fairly stable ratio of Yugoslavia's total
debt outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 4.7 percent in 1976 and is projected to be about 6
percent by 1980.
PART III - THE 1979 EARTHQUAKE
Background
29.       On April 15, 1979 at 7:19 a.m. local time a devastating earthquake
measuring IX on the modified Mercalli Intensity Scale (MCS) with an epicenter
on the Adriatic coastline of Montenegro near Kotor, hit Yugoslavia. Five
more earthquakes of over VII MCS, as well as hundreds of lesser after-shocks,
struck the same area thereafter, with the last quake, an VIII MCS, on May 24,
1979. During this period earth tremors of strong intensity were felt in
most of the area of Montenegro, the southeastern parts of S.R. Croatia, the
S.R. Bosnia-Herzegovina, as well as the northern part of Albania.
Earthquake Damage, General
30.       The physical consequences of the earthquake were most evident along
the total length of the Montenegrin coastline in a belt 10 to 12 km wide. In
this area over one hundred people lost their lives and about 500 people were
injured as a result of the earth tremors. The casualties could well have been
much higher except for the fact that the major shock was preceded by one of
lesser intensity which served as a warning, that April 15 was not a business
day (it was a Sunday) and that the major tourist season was not yet underway.



31.       The earthquake seriously damaged the basic infrastructure of the
area. The basic transport system, schools, hospitals, houses, hotels, indus-
trial plants, apartment buildings, cultural-historical monuments, the water
supply system, and the electric and telegraph-telephone grid were all exten-
sively and heavily damaged. The full extent of this damage has not, even now,
been ascertained. However over 12,500 of the approximately 60,JOO housing
units in the area were destroyed, and a further 12,000 heavily damaged. Over
4,000 industrial buildings, schools, hospitals, hotels, etc., were completely
destroyed and about 3,000 more severely damaged. The total area of these
7,000 structures amounts to about 1.25 million square meters. About one-
fourth of Montenegro's primary and secondary road system, which totals some
3,500 km of roads, was heavily damaged, including almost the entire length of
the Adriatic Highway situated in Montenegro and almost all the other main
roads (about 600 km total) in the area.  The Republic's main rail line, its
main port and the area"s airport were also heavily damaged. The ancient
cities of Kotar, Budva and Herceg-Novi, which are important cultural and
tourist attractions were all heavily damaged and much of this historical area
may be beyond repair.
32.       The earthquake dealt a devastating blow to the tourist industry,
coming just before the season was to start in an area which contained more
than 90 percent of the Republic's 125,000 tourist beds. The damage to the
roadway net and the railway from Titograd to Bar as well as to the airport
at Tivat resulted in a situation immediately after April 15 in which the only
possible communication between the Montenegrin coast and the rest of the coun-
try was by radio and helicopters. Although land communication was partially
restored within a few days, and largely maintained even after subsequent earth
shocks, economic activity has been severely curtailed. More than 5,000 people
who would ordinarily be employed in the tourist industry are now unemployed.
33.       Overall the economic consequences of the earthquakes are critical
to Montenegro which is one of the least developed regions in Yugoslavia. This
lag in development has been due in large measure to the topography which not
only makes communication to and within the region difficult and costly to
build and maintain but: which also dictated the historical development of the
main terrestrial transport links to the north and east of the region. How-
ever, during the last two decades the Government has made major efforts to
improve transportation to and within Montenegro through the construction of
four major transport projects, including the Adriatic Highway along the coast,
a major highway linking the Adriatic Highway and the Port of Bar with Titograd,
the capital of S.R. Montenegro, and eastern Yugoslavia, the Belgrade-Bar rail-
way and a modern port at Bar. All but the highway from Titograd to the coast,
which was built with the financial assistance of USAID were components of Bank
financed projects. All were heavily damaged in the April 15 and subsequent
earthquakes. Specific damage to the terrestrial transport modes and the Port
of Bar are briefly detailed below.
Earthquake Damage, Highways
34.       Although the road maintenance services and civil engineering
contractors of Montenegro, aided by the Yugoslav army, were able to get



- 12 -
limited traffic movement along most highway links within a few days after the
first earthquake, the further earthquakes between April 15 and May 24, 1979
brought additional damage to infrastructure generally and the road network
specifically, again closing major sections of coastal and inland routes for
various time periods. However, at the present time, traffic-blocking debris
has been cleared on the main roads and some temporary detours have been con-
structed around those areas too badly damaged to handle any roadway traffic,
with the result that most roads have been opened to at least limited traffic
(passage by truck trailers is still widely restricted).
35.       Many damaged road sections are extremely vulnerable to further
damage where the earthquakes have disrupted drainage systems and/or did other
structural damage leaving the sections open to water intrusion. So far
Montenegro (and the rest of Yugoslavia) has had an extremely dry season, but
the rainy season is expected to start late in September or early in October.
It is imperative, therefore, that certain remedial work be undertaken before
then.
36.       Of all the roads damaged by the earthquakes the most important is
the Adriatic Highway, which is the main national and international route and
which services the major tourist area in Montenegro. Also heavily damaged
were the major east-west road from Titograd, the Republic's capital, to the
Port of Bar on the coast and from Cetinje, the cultural center and ancient
capital of Montenegro, to Budva, a tourist center on the coast. In addition
many of the regional as well as local and access roads, particularly around
Kotar and Ulcinj, were heavily damaged. The more important links for which
remedial action is critical, and for which funds are included in this proposed
loan, are detailed in Annex IV.
Earthquake Damage, Railroad
37.       As noted above, the April 15 earthquake severely damaged the
Titograd-Bar railway, making it impassable. The five major earth tremors that
followed did further damage so that some 33 km of line was corrugated, with
irregularities of from 5 cm to 65 cm. The tunnels of Sozina, Ratanj and
Susonj also suffered considerable damage as did the bridges over the Skadar
Lake and the Moraca River. The extent of the damage is still under investiga-
tion but it appears that in the 6 km Sozina tunnel the basic geometry has been
distorted and water seepage has made the continued use of electric traction
impossible. At the Skadar Lake bridge a lateral movement of 4 cm has been
noted and at the Moraca River bridge a similar surface movement of 12 cm
measured. The overhead contact line between Bar and Titograd has been signif-
icantly damaged as have signalling installations. A number of railroad
stations have suffered damage, in particular those at Bar and Sutomora, where
the buildings were so badly damaged that they may have to be replaced. The
electric traction building at Bar was destroyed along with the locomotive
depot and the transformer house, the diesel pump installation and the port
handling tracks. Emergency repairs have been made but trains are still under
heavy speed restrictions (20 kph on track and 10 kph on bridges) on a good
portion of the line. A separate rehabilitation project for railways and ports
(see below) is now under appraisal.



- 13
Earthquake Damage, Port of Bar
38.       There is essentially only one major port in Montenegro, the Port
of Bar. The extent of the earthquakes damage to Bar port will only be fully
known after extensive subsurface and underwater inspections and testing.
However, it is apparent that a great deal of significant damage has occurred.
The general cargo berths have been extensively damaged, and are unstable with
extensive buckling of t.he wall and apron and destruction of all sheds and
most of the ancillary equipment except some of the cranes. These berths may
well have to be abandor,ed and alternative facilities built elsewhere in the
harbor. The cranes have been moved to a flat area but have not yet been fully
inspected. The berths constructed under the Bank loan (1060-YU), have suf-
fered less damage but t:here has been settlement of the pavement and lateral
movement of one wall. The sheds have suffered structural damage and the
portal cranes were shaken off their rails and one was completely destroyed.
The outer breakwater has been damaged and the secondary breakwater has sunk
approximately one meter. The shipyards and many of the industrial buildings
at the port have suffered varying amounts of damage up to total destruction.
Economic Implications of Earthquake Damage
39.       The direct economic implications of the earthquakes are obvious.
A great deal of expensive infrastructure has been damaged and destroyed and
will have to be repaired or replaced in one form or another. In addition,
essential economic activity has been interrupted and slowed. To the extent
that a return to normal activity depends on the restoration of the damaged
and destroyed infrastructure, there are further, time-related, economic costs
(losses).  A case in point, which also serves to illustrate the interdependence
of the necessary remedial works, is the international tourist industry which
is basic to Montenegro's economy. 1978 was a record year for tourism in
Yugoslavia and since, prior to the earthquakes, advance bookings for 1979
were about 15 percent ahead of equivalent 1978 advance bookings, Yugoslavia
generally and Montenegro, in particular, were expecting a substantially
improved tourist season and contribution to foreign exchange earnings. The
earthquakes damaged a considerable amount of the direct tourist superstructure
in Montenegro (hotels, restaurants, historical buildings, etc.). Neverthe-
less, a good deal of this superstructure suffered only repairable damage.
However, the operation of these hotels, restaurants, etc., depends on the
rehabilitation of the damaged water supply systems and electric grid system.
But even when remedial work on these items of infrastructure is made, the
tourists will still have to get to the hotels, restaurants, etc., and this
will depend on remedial work on the damaged transport system. Further, the
repairs to the water systems, electric grid, etc., will, themselves, depend in
large measure on an adequately functioning transport system. As a result the
tourism industry is virtually at a standstill and can only be expected to
recover gradually as repairs are made in all the related sectors.



- 14 -
40.       Obviously, then, there is a basic interrelationship among the
various classes of infrastructure and the minimization of time-related
economic loss depends on prompt remedial action in many sectors. However,
equally obvious, the restoration of the basic land transport network is the
sine qua non of economic recovery. In this context another example both of
interdependence and the critical need to restore the land transport network
involves the Port of Bar. This port, severely damaged by the earthquake, not
only is the major seaport for all of southern Yugoslavia, but is also a major
entrepot for Belgrade and the industrial and agricultural area surrounding
the capital. Prompt restoration of effective port operations is not only
critical to the economy of Montenegro but to that of southern Yugoslavia as a
whole. Yet the restoration of the port in large part depends on reestablish-
ment of the rail and highway links to the port from Titograd and thence to the
rest of the country, both in terms of mobilizing the necessary materials and
labor for repairs and in the movement of goods into and out of the port.
Request for Special Bank Lending
41.       The Government of Yugoslavia has requested the Bank to provide
financial assistance for the rehabilitation of the earthquake damage in S.R.
Montenegro, one of the four LDRs in Yugoslavia. Apart from the, as yet
undetermined, but extremely high cost of restoring the physical damage, the
economy of the Republic will suffer a severe loss of earning capacity, both
currently and for several years to come, as a result of the damage to the
tourist facilities and the industries in the region of Bar.
42.       A law providing funds for reconstruction was published in the Offi-
cial Gazette of SFRY on July 27, 1979. This legislation specifies interim
contributions to be deposited by each of the Republics and Autonomous Prov-
inces into a Reconstruction Fund (Fund) to be established by S.R. Montenegro.
These interim contributions amounting to Din 5 billion ($267.4 million) will
be paid into the Fund in equal installments at the end of August, October and
December 1979. The law also provides that the total contributions to be
eventually made will be determined, on the basis of final damage estimates,
and enacted into law by December 15, 1979. Provision is also made for equal
contributions to be provided monthly in 1980 and that these, and any further
contributions which may subsequently be provided, will be increased by an
amount equal to the increase in the consumer price index for the preceding
year. We have been informed that S.R. Montenegro has passed legislation estab-
lishing the Fund and earmarking funds for specific sectors of rehabilitation.
(Publication in the Official Gazette is pending.) A large proportion of the
interim contributions are being earmarked for housing. Additional contribu-
tions received and being sought from other domestic and international sources
will also be channelled through the Fund.  Both SFRY and S.R. Montenegro are
convinced that financial assistance provided by the Bank would serve as a
catalyst for obtaining other external assistance. Discussions with a number
of countries who have expressed interest are scheduled to take place in
September and October 1979.
43.       In addition to its direct financial contribution, SFRY has under-
taken to service the domestic and foreign debt of enterprises struck by the
earthquake and will provide supplementary financing for social services.



- 15 -
44.       In view of the Bank's past substantial financial assistance to and
depth of knowledge of the transport sector in Montenegro, it is proposed that
loans totalling up to $'85 million should be made for specific projects for
the rehabilitation of highways, the Titograd-Bar railroad and the Port of Bar.
These proposals will cover specifically identified works in ar effort to
ensure that the loans can be used effectively and quickly.
45.       Several Bank transportation missions have visited the area and have
reviewed the damage anid the Republic's rehabilitation plans. The detailed
assessment of damage aad the reconstruction plans have already been made for
the highways but further work is needed to prepare specific rehabilitation
projects in railways and the Port of Bar. The assessment of damage to the
Titograd-Bar railroad and the Port of Bar is proceeding but is not yet com-
plete due to the difficulty of inspecting and assessing damage to tunnels and
underwater damage to bridges, piers and breakwaters. In view of the severity
of damage to the Port of Bar, the design and layout of the original facilities
are being reviewed with a view to ensuring that the reconstruction will pro-
vide the optimal means of handling present and future traffic.
46.       In view of the urgency of highway rehabilitation, both to permit
restoration of normal economic activity and to prevent further damage which
will occur during the next rainy season if essential repairs are not com-
pleted promptly, a loan of $21 million for highways' rehabilitation is recom-
mended at this stage. This would represent the first part of the total
rehabilitation loans np to $85 million planned for the transport sector.
Specific projects suiLable for Bank financing in railways and the Port of Bar
will be appraised upon completion of the necessary studies and it is hoped
to submit proposals for Bank lending for the consideration of the Executive
Directors before the end of 1979.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
47.       As described earlier, the main earthquake shocks of April 15 and
May 24 caused major dislocations to the road network, particularly in the
vicinity of the Adriatic Coast (see Map IBRD 14473). Montenegro's principal
coastal road, the Adriatic highway, was closed at several locations, one
section of about 2 km had fallen into the sea, and other sections which
were benched into th,e steeply sloping terrain were rendered unsafe by slides,
and by damaged or destroyed retaining walls. Inland, the main road from the
Port of Bar to Titograd sustained considerable damage in the mountainous
section near the coast, and other main and secondary roads were also closed
to traffic.
Immediate Action Program
48.       The Republic's Maintenance Enterprise, Crna Gora Put, whose activi-
ties are deployed th,roughout Montenegro, was immediately commissioned to open



- 16 -
damaged sections to permit restricted flows of traffic. This operation proved
of greater magnitude than this single enterprise could handle; therefore the
maintenance enterprises of other Republics were brought in to assist. The per-
sonnel and equipment of several civil works contractors working in Montenegro
were also mobilized. As a result, within days of the April 15, and later, the
May 24 earthquake shocks, traffic was able to pass on all roads, even though
speeds and flows were restricted.
49.       In parallel with these activities, twelve teams of experts, whose
services were obtained from all Yugoslavia's Roads Organizations and Design
Institutes (Consultants), carried out systematic road-by-road inspections,
locating and defining the types of damage sustained and the repair works
needed. As a result, the rehabilitation works to be carried out on each road
section have been well identified. These groups met for frequent discussions
in Titograd to ensure consistent standards, to draw up an overall picture of
earthquake damage, and on the basis of their findings, to determine the plan-
ning and design efforts needed for the most seriously damaged highway sections.
The resources of the Republic and the Design Institutes have been mobilized to
undertake them.
Organization for the Rehabilitation Program
50.       The Roads Organization of Montenegro is providing overall planning
and coordination of the rehabilitation effort. Its resources are being amply
complemented by those of the Design Institutes of Belgrade and Zagreb whose
experience in all aspects of highway work is known to the Bank from earlier
highway projects. Some road sections in steeply sloping terrain, where the
drainage pattern has been disrupted and subgrades loosened by the earthquake
shocks, must have remedial works or relocations substantially completed before
the fall rains penetrate the already loosened sub-soil and cause further slide
damage. These works cannot wait and are now in hand with detailed designs
being completed just ahead of the arrival of the construction machinery.
Although this work must be done now, other works can be deferred until later -
for example, the repair of relatively lightly damaged retaining walls and the
rehabilitation of pavements where distortions do not appear to have been
critical. In these latter cases detailed pavement investigations are needed
to determine the extent of reconstruction. Exploratory work has already
commenced and final plans should be completed early in 1980. The Borrower
will submit the final plans and documentation for these subprojects to the
Bank for approval prior to their implementation under the project. A covenant
in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.04) records the Borrower's obligation in this
respect. In view of the nature of the damage to the road network, the urgency
of the rehabilitation works, and on the basis of the engineering studies
already carried out, the Road Organization proposes that the entire road
rehabilitation effort should be phased over three years with most of the
works to be completed during the first two years.
The Project - Introduction
51.       The proposed project was appraised by missions which visited
Yugoslavia in May/June and July 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington



--17 -
from August 13-17, 197CJ with a Yugoslav Delegation led by Dr. Milorad
Stanojevic, Vice President of the Executive Council of S.R. Montenegro. The
proposed project will consist entirely of remedial works necessary to preserve
or restore the damaged road facilities, with the exception of short realign-
ments where restoration is not physically feasible or economically the least
cost solution, and for the replacement of structures which have been damaged
beyond repair. The objective is to limit further economic loss to the exist-
ing road network by preventing further physical deterioration and to restore
the network to service ongoing economic activity. The roads included for
works under the project have a total length of about 560 km, about 360 km of
which are main roads and the remaining 200 km being regional roads. The
estimated cost of rehabilitation is 1,190 m dinars (US$63.6 m equivalent),
including duties and taxes which amount to about 12 percent of the total.
The estimated foreign cost component is estimated to be $21 million or 33
percent of total costs. Annex IV page 1 gives details of the work needed to
restore each road section to its earlier condition; Annex IV page 2 presents
the project cost estinate in standard appraisal format. Map IBRD 14474 shows
the roads affected. The estimate includes provision for price escalation on
the basis of 12 percent annually for local costs over the next three years and
7 percent for foreign costs. Although the repair works have been identified,
the scope of certain civil works and of repairs to retaining walls cannot be
precisely quantified at present (para. 50). For this reason it has been
deemed prudent to include a physical contingency of 20 percent. Moreover,
as indicated earlier (para. 50), the onset of early rains prior to completion
of slope stabilization work could precipitate more slides and add to the scope
of work. The foreign exchange component of the works included in the project
is based on the likelihood that all will be executed by local contractors
(para. 53).
The Loan and Project Execution
52.       The loan would be made to the Self-Managing Republic Community of
Interest for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, Titograd, in the
amount of US$21.0 m and guaranteed by the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Republic of
Montenegro will have adopted regulations authorizing the construction of and
providing the local financing for the rehabilitation program, including a
guarantee to cover possible cost overruns (Section 7.01(a) and (b), of the
Loan Agreement). Supervision of the reconstruction works would be effected
by the Borrower, assisted by any qualified organizations acceptable to the
Bank and is documented accordingly in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.02). The
Investment Bank of TiLtograd (IBT) would act as fiscal agent for the project
and also as liaison agent between the Borrower and the Bank on project-related
matters. The delegal:ion of the foregoing authorities to the IBT by the
Borrower would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section
7.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
53.       The emergency works carried out so far by the Maintenance Enter-
prises have been costed on the basis of unit rates agreed between the Borrower
and its Maintenance Enterprise, Crna Gora Put, prior to the commencement of



- 18 -
the present fiscal year. These rates are negotiated annually by the highway
administration which follows costs and market prices systematically to ensure
that the negotiated prices are reasonable. The Maintenance Enterprises from
other Republics have agreed to work for the same prices. The emergency works
are so diverse and limited in scope and their locations so scattered that
their aggregation into packages of sizes suitable for conventional contract
bidding and award is not practicable and would impose unacceptable delays on
the rehabilitation program. The maintenance enterprises concerned have all
shown themselves in the past to be fully competent for the works they are
being called on to perform. The works which they execute are documented in
standard civil works contract format and progress payment certificates are
prepared on the basis of quantities of work performed or machine hours used
and certified by the supervisory agency (para. 52). The Bank's disbursements
will be made against such progress certificates submitted by the Borrower in
the normal way. Other works of a less urgent nature and which require more
detailed planning as explained in paras. 49 and 50 above, where commencement
before the rains is not vital, will be subject to international competitive
bidding after contractor prequalification in the normal way. About 35 percent
of the total project is expected to be executed in this way. The thrust of
the project is solely directed at the civil works needed for road rehabilita-
tion, and although it does not include provisions for maintenance, equipment
or training, these matters are being catered for under the Tenth Highway
Project in which S.R. Montenegro is participating. The civil works being
financed under the Tenth Highway Project do not overlap or conflict with the
work contemplated under this proposed project.
54.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed on the basis of 33
percent of total expenditures, the percentage representing the estimated
foreign exchange component of the civil works, subject to the maximum amount
of the proposed loan. It is expected that the proposed loan would be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1982.
Retroactive Financing
55.       In order that the Bank may assist as fully as possible Montenegro's
earthquake rehabilitation efforts, expenditures incurred for the emergency
works described in para. 50 above, from April 15, 1979 up to the time of
loan signature, would be eligible for financing under the loan; the amount
to be disbursed in this way is not expected to exceed US$5 m.
Project Risk and Environment
56.       Since the project is designed to restore the former situation to
Montenegro's highway network, there will be no additional hazard to the envi-
ronment. The Roads Organization of Montenegro has participated satisfactorily
in the earlier Bank highway projects and the Bank's past experience with the
Borrower indicates that the works will be completed in a cost-efficient and
timely manner. A potential risk, the magnitude of which cannot be foreseen,
is that further land slides and other damage may occur during the rainy
season. To a reasonable extent the project's contingency element would cater
for additional works caused in such a manner. To reduce the potential for



- 19 -
damage resulting from future earthquakes, the Montenegro authorities are now
reviewing their code of practice for structural design to take account of a
higher seismic loading factor; replacement structures in this project are
being designed in accordance with the revised loadings.
Project Benefits
57.       The proposed project would support the restoration of the basic
road network in southwestern Montenegro which was heavily damaged by the
severe earthquakes of April-May 1979. The development of the road network
in recent years has been a major factor in opening up this less developed
region and integrating it more closely with major Yugoslavian and interna-
tional market centers, thus stimulating national and international trade
and enhancing employment and economic development. The improved road network
was a major component of the infrastructure serving the important and growing
international tourist t:rade which has developed along the Adriatic coast of
Montenegro in recent years (para. 39). The road network on the Titograd-Bar
corridor also serves a large industrial and mining complex, which is a key
sector of the economy.
Economic Assessment
58.       Because of the nature of the proposed project, individual economic
rates of return (ERs) for each individual subproject, have not been developed
since, as explained in paras 39 and 40 above, the rehabilitation works in
several sectors are critically interdependent for the restoration of vital
components of the economy as a whole. Consequently, these investments must be
treated as an integrated investment package, while the benefits accruing from
them would be the resultant increase in production and income in the various
economic sectors from their present depressed levels. This quantification
cannot be carried out. However, most of the roads to be repaired have heavy
traffic in excess of 1,000 vehicles/day (Map IBRD 14475) and without the
restoration of the basic roadway network the economy of S.R. Montenegro will
not only stagnate but,, in fact, will retrogress. The program proposed is one
of repair to an exist:Lng investment which is still largely in place, but which
cannot function effecl:ively in its present state. In particular, the roads
must be repaired to carry the goods and services needed for rehabilitation of
other sectors of the economy. Several of these roads were built with Bank
assistance (Loans 334-YU and 678-YU). Moreover, as a major input to the prep-
aration of its highway Master Plan, the Republic carried out a comprehensive
analysis of the road traffic over the entire network; the traffic figures
shown on Map IBRD 14475 are those used in the plan's compilation. The Tenth
Highway Project (Loan 1678-YU) approved by the Board on March 15, 1979, in-
cluded an allocation to Montenegro which was based on its highway development
program resulting from this Master Plan. All the roads included in this
proposed project for rehabilitation are critical elements of the basic road
network described in that highway Master Plan and are therefore considered,
prima facie, economically justified.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Self-Managing Republic
Community of Interest for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro; and
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugo-
slavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness are described in paragraph
52 of this Report and set forth in Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement. These
conditions specify that:
(i) the Republic of Montenegro has given guarantees to cover the
financing of the Project road sections including cost over-
runs, and has adopted regulations authorizing such construc-
tion; and
(ii) consents and approvals have been given for the Investiciona
Banka Titograd to undertake the obligations referred to in
the Loan Agreement, namely to act as fiscal agent for the
Project, and liaison agent between the Borrower and the Bank
in project-related matters.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
August 31, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-21-                                 ~~~~ANNEX I
-  21 -                                            Page  1 of  6
TABU 3A
TOGOLaVU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SiNlT
YtlGOSLVIA                  REFEBIRa-    GROUPS (ADJUSTED IAyAGS
YUGONLAVIA            ~~~- NDST UrERti ISTMHTZ
MOST RECENT     GEOG.APRIC   INCOME       INCOSS
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROtlP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                96.0        94.0      97.0           105.7      101.7       107.6
MALE                100.0        98.0    100.0            107.1      110.0
FEMALE              91.0        89.0      94.0            104.5      92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                34.0        46.0      55.0            65.9       51.2        39.7
MALE                43.0        50.0       59.0            70.3       56.4
FEMALE              24.0         42.0     50.0             62.2       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 72.0         72.0      75.0            20.4       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          33.0        24.0      22.0            26.7       27.1
SECONDARY                        13.0        27.0      30.0              ..       25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I'ERCENT)     77.0        83.0      85.0              ..       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0        35.0      80.3           105.5       53.4        68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TiOUSAND
POPULATION                       85.0       163.0    210.0            233.7      225.9       210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.4        88.0    161.0            148.0      102.6       117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                69.0        85.0      89.0              ,.       78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0        4.0       3.8             6.4        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8345.0      9175.0/&  9779.0/g
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 35.0        36.5      36.3            32.3       24.5        27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            63.7        49.8      42.0            25.8       28.9        23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               23.5        29.2      34.0            33.1       30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              45.4        45.0      45.9            37.6       33.8        40.1
MALE                               60.3        58.3      59.4            57.0       51.3        55.7
FEMALE                             31.0        32.3      32.7            28.0       16.3        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RA1IO             0.8         0.8       0.7             1.0        1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/h      15.1/i     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5/h     41.471   40.0/;           47.9       57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97W      6.671     6.57I           5.0        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.071     18.471    18.4             15.4       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE PBVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..      550.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    420.0            436.1      403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted grcup averages for each indicator are population-weighted geosetric means, excluding the extreme
values of the iT.dicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators deperds on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise! noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and fur Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   Europe;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e  High Income (over $2500 per capita,
1976);  /f  1962;  /g  Including sigrant workers working abroad;  lh  1963;  /i  1968;  Li  1973.
May, 1979



-22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TAJLE 3A
YtJG0U- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YGOSIAVIA                 IEFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYJRAGES
LH    A(THOUS  S,O. EK.)                     UV- MOST RECENT ESTIMALTE)-
255 .                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     143.2                                MST REGENT      GEOORAPHIC   INCOME       INCOM
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTINTE /b        REGION Jc  GROUP Jd   GROUP le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 380.0       840.0   1960.0           2154.0    1748.5       2754.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PSR CAPITA
(I-LOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    872.0       1459.0   2016.0           2033.2    1646.7       2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YER (MILLIONS)      18.4       20.*       21.7
URRAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9       34.8       38.4            56.3       51.2        72.1
POPULATION PROJECrIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       72.0        80.0      85.0            81.5       28.2        33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    124.0       139.0    152.0            138.8      100.5        91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         30.5        27.4      25.0            25.6       35.4        33.3
15-64 YRS.                        63.2        64.8      66.0             62.9       56.3        57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   6.3         7.8       9.0            10.2        5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.2         1.0       0.9             0.9        1.7         2.1
URBAN                              3.6         3.2       3.0             2.6        3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.0         19.0     18.0             18.5       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     10.0         9.0       9.0             9.2        9.1         8.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.4         1.3       1.1             1.2        1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..           ..       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED WOMEN)   ..          59.0       ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         83.6         92.0    120.0            115.7      102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 115.0       124.0    136.0             134.2      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         91.0         92.0      97.5            95.4       80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      27.0         29.0      35.4            45.4       31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     4.0         3.0       2.0              1.3        5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   62.0        67.7      69.0            70.0        65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          88.0         55.5      35.0            31.5       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..               ..       69.4        73.9
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..              ..        85.1        94.6
RURAL                              ..           ..        ..              ..       43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..               ..       70.1
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..              ..        88.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..   r                    33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          1400.0 If   1010.0    790.0            661.6     1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1350.0 /f    410.0    390.0            677.1      765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           200.0        170.0    170.0            180.1      197.6       240.6
URBAN                               ..        70.0      70.0              ..      260.2
RURAL                              ..       1610.0   1770.0               ..    1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         17.0      17.0            15.3       17.3        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.0         3.8       3.8              ..        4.7
URBAN                             3.3          3.2       3.3              ..        4.4
RURAL                             4.4          4.3       4.1              ..        5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.6         1.4       ..               ..        1.1
URBAN                              1.7         1.3       ..               ..        1.2
RURAL                              1.5         1.5       ..               ..        1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             55.4        87.9        ..              ..       66.0
URBAN                             92.7        98.4       ..               ..       85.1
RURAL                             36.1        80.1        ..



-23-                                                                            AINEX I
Page 3 of 6
Note.;  Alth-gh th. data ere dra.., frin  ftos.ra  a,.erelvi  j4uls the  wee .sthmritativ an  d ralLshie, it oho.ld al.e be noe.d that they nay tot be Olere--
t-ionaly  soeparable beceuee of the lack of *t..a,des'id dcfceio.   set Cocecpte usd by differnt ... ttria. in ctlle-ting th. date.  T7he dt.e en, no...theless.
usflto deocribo ardors of eagsitudo, irtiost. ivatnt., andtchorecteniatiee certain valor dif ferences between cOctries.
Th. adiustad aCrqu  fvno        -  e0 ee  Indiustot es, pepulstice-eeighd goen.tric anues,  ec.ladin  the a.rease vales  of th. indicat-r .d tho cost pupul.t.d
-ectry in  .ahrco.Des to leek of adm., sweep avucse. of .ll indicators fec Capital Surplus Oil E.fcparter  act of,ndcatorsof . rAc...  to eat.r set  -or.te
dip il osing  Itote   di.trib.tion an4 Pevent  for other tcoonty Inrsa nuor  psfulattoo-seiShted gmeastric usan  ei h.ac  Wsclale  of the settee. tale.. and
the issI papelated, cdactry.  fliggel-AbIAMOU    1 ceaNi.   ntth  L.iac    sed                         viablt   fdt   c   aer  10.   ato                       eb   acreed
Inrlaninsenrae   ofe.                r toFiihei                r      aa.                 a.     enea"cc  d t1                            c      i t lue   f  n
indicstor at a  e   ue   h   osr set M          franJ.JJI
LANDl AREA (theusendfsq. k.)                                                              aease   esaMce   eres   fonito                           L-  te.   uban  se
tenet- Totl eurcem  eac noynteio lad Arns end island  Me's j3      Ie    fpopehit   ee,atrrl  ;.oe  hy~ I.nnade
A-ti-utot-I - Moes  talent sattiest. of  an loa   rsa  usad tep-orarly                    p-el as lureeOteg- of their reeP-etivo  loPuPltinee.  tEcrete dieteel..
en pencsosetly for ...oPs, peetor-e  market and hitehn Sardena  or no                   - ei ecld. the oolctln add diepece1, uth on wIth-u  tr.. tesettOf
ILae tutto.                                                                             hoaae entrets act esets- wee  byaa   -oe    y,ten  e- the use of pit
prti,ue acd stil.v icsallstinens.
CtNp plo CAPITA 101$) - GNP par -apit. aetloats  at curret cathkt pritee,                Poceltion Pr  hysici   - Papeletioc divided by tiebet of practicing physj-
calculatd ho        "'conv ne le    thod as World Back Atlee (1975-77 ts-ie)          cide        . qeiod ft   * ediceIchoel et uti-craity leve.
1960, 1970. ott 107 dota.                                                           Poj ai:en1 see creim  enree  - Pp.plation divided by tnheI of practining
ise      fd  ard-oot  tome...  pronticel  -ur.... actd.. usis tacte e.
tEEoCY CONSLosrlnro  Ito CAPTc-   ececalld.otepIien of cossre-W  eeergy ct.oniatenethostl  hed - tot.l. urbee. Aet rer..l - P.p.ition(tutt1,
and lInt,patrols   natural gee end hydre-, nol*.rar ed *eetheeue I                      rkn, and rural) dividd by their ..espectivn  ,mhct ef hospitwaldot
elorct)in  iLqa   Cf cIiI eqirelet per capite. 1I40, 1670                       ee"ila*le to peblic mad poitec  ger.sl- seepecieltee  he.peeal sd  e
set 197k data.                                                   kski~~~~~~~bAlitesies einter.  fapittale see eetblibIonts permecetly etafrd by
POPIII.iTlis      TAhIaTI                                                            at leat asn phpI.eiea.  Ieanhliaat. prtlt&IeS priceipelly ctetdiel
1977l d.olt..       U.etilce     - A. of Jety 1; 1LU0. 1970, Pd                         ..e see net ieletmt.  iseal Isepint.e, kenve, cede. healek  -ad  -at
1977 date.oa)       ai.o   AnC.ttl  olaia;                                      :Itol cmare to' veremoetly  tiaffed by a phyeicien  (hut by A saetic1 ec-
tiffe-et defietion; of   bP eree  eey eff..t comerability of date                      protete   dra li itd rfee    f t icel   ofacltere-.    a       Iudain
tnc   antie   960, 1970 end 1971 data.                                                                            I  oa   ee    faveeaet   ndehre
PanUf- 1  Vr 130- Correct poqesltift  e"ectiono a   baed                                             to" m  tk. nower of be".
197   et.1.e add eso aed the,Lr eertality aNW fertility
rat.Pr Je ctio   parastre  f- or-eclley voste. cpprse  of 3 ielesul                   ni.ea   fleee       eespr.,.e,..~-ttt                              
eei icg lf .ep.tettry at hirt;h iesreee"i.gith tosetype per cfia                 aheeedcetio      r.p.   siiul   h   ~ee~t  ug                               :r1
Iom   larel.-, se  fnel.  ife-r eeer.ey  tliieie  aet 77.5 yeare.                      act their "inscaeele,  A keener or Lodger  ay on my net he included in the
Th. Panra.tr   for fertility rate also hey.   levele saneiinic  tali.                  hsco.held f.r etatiati-el prpce...
10 lortility  -orodiog to lucees level dad pust fail7  plestics Par-                 h ame Ir ;aen   ere:-t                    baock.. etrenl, - Avarwe  eceke
I                Lane.tn   uotyI  okes ...ieSsad  es of these 9  ackinetiode.  fprm    e   i    sa             adh,,  n =rura  soapieOt cnetiena1 deeLILoes,
oferayed-ferity eed   o    rjci.preP                                        roopetivly. Deelliassg  ecclade  nen-prehuenet ec      -enead u-cutpi.d paite.
Sttsa,PonsaIac_  _ 1c eStationr  Pcpslatisn. there Ls -0 S-och                    ceet   lctii.fcretc  dele                        total. -bke. n  rual-I
sicue the birth rate is equal to thradteth rst., end els  the ep                       CsOevtialoollte    iheetiiy                    ;Itei   qoertere S. p-cnet.se of
structure reseine conatent.  This L. .ohievd mely after fertility rate5                total, urhe, set rueal dwelitt  repectivey.
deellne te the rplaesust leva  of -.it net oweepeati   . rai, eke, cock
eaerteo  ss   -episce s itself  -stty.  The Stetinearp PopICaiscie
siA  eeutipti  doe the hsin of the projected cherectftnitiis of the                ili                                             C nod-totallIse.ttetie-.11
populetion Ic the year 2000. end the rate of deolie. of ferellity roa--taetca,nl   n  fml   col
to Ic cas  level.                                                                        o  .Fi I BlesFiif-           lulsP._rteotee   frep.l                  csr
tsa  9atigner, P-osul-ca  1e uaaokd - Th. Yeac she. Stationaey Populs-                   ooleapapel.ciocs  coculy Jotlods. ohildrns  aged 6-11 years hut
tin. esL     hs. 5m.5ee. aIdjsted f-r differect Lecgtho uf prlesry sduetin; tot oe-trine  imh
PooeindaIt,                                                                      avarte adc...tioo corollent mey emced 100 peroet  J-.t s-s  pcpils  r
Per a.!S l... - Mid-y-a  PePsiatlo  Par equans kildset.  (100 kecte.re .               b=b  or Okot! the efioll enhool ag.
Perse.he aiutrloled - Ccmputd as  hon  for .grtuto.tl laud 1-                           tie. rsqoire  at beet icr yer.r off appro,,at p.risy ioetr-tion; P-evlde
only.                                                                           gei(-1  ya.)  -k.S'Saare, veottmal, or teacher training instrutione  fr pupils usually of
Peuaie   e      nto tuss fercat  -  hlrn(-4yes,urige12 to 17 year. of eec; uo,rcpetenc. c--rse  ern genersly esolodd.1
(l5-Myss,etrtrd(Iy eosad ovet  e  prcntegps of  I'd'                                 iseinleelmst(eci  fsoetcl fntoa  Ceiuic   oldo
ter popultionl 1940, 1970 ard 1977 dote.sehie,iters,o  ehrporn   h                                                                         prt   edpacdetlvtri       u
P*""ltia" cre.tk  aeterat                     ;.el - ISat   snete racce of totel         downrstat  of seoadary tiati-utione.                   rt    dpd.             rI
itd-year psolais.  o  1900.t6-70. s.d 1970-77.                                        ui-eherto-enas    edee.rv-otludctsrlatn
Fonecseecs--,h raArolVeqc-Anulg th ranes of eman                                         plee   eedCtu  aecmt,  lnefel  titd   kyo -usr Tofa tcsnhrn  I  tenroled.-
vro,a......  .ct.-.... 7...  ... 970-1                                                apseti. leel.           1 1   i= b   ld-o   otr   .t.l
* ,cbirtN  I nts b1 tbh'-I'd) -Ocuel live birthe Par theussot of                    -t.tlinrc  c'ts foIrceot  - Littertae edIte  (Able to vest And  rite) a
odpa   outIon   90   99and 1970det.  aI0f   d                                     percemes. of total adult poplation sed 15 years  od' even.
yea:r pp tac 9`    17   o  1977' ta.
Gre.. remrodotien reme -             .rasnihr of dsught.r. e  nope    ill hear         pesieore  I0cr thoen   outit-Psooncaenpsseoras
tobrceclrproductive period i  h   ceime   rso   g-                             setc   es  hcegtop rcn:stde  enhcbaote   herse  and cllitery
speoitit f-rcity ratee; usually tin-yea  oneness  adding ia 1940,                      vehcl.I....a
1970, set 19751.,"r Sade eciversfe  t"hosamid necistml   All tyec:fneeion  for radio
Fal   jecatoni  -  cett. .... nu"al- (ttk""Bidg- 4pesI cte   of                       hroedcet  to ecea  puieprtetado   oulto;scudscloca
'oIp.  r  efhrhcnro          aeie    de, Stepicca Of cetiecel f ally                   neteivees in  oosntlies and in year.  hftn reeetr-tia  of radio ase  Ls  i
plttgpnvora.                                                                      affeet; date fec re    ctpare  ay, dout ha cInparble stL.e out ceontrlo
Foetlo clan~~0-ussr. lenonent of co rnia ,,ig     - Pumretonta   of          bhliehed lt.-inag.
anritd wae  of ohild-he-ieg aSa (1-    edes) -h- use birth-ontrel                    IV reoatirr    e  thaeaae  voenllate) - TVrcevr  fOr bruadteat to Sae.1e
d-.v..c to all earnd .as   in en  eke gjeep.                                           puhlio per ahnde  ppuletion; eolde    niteoned TV r ...ivere  in  on
IDOD   I ,,,,,,IT                                                   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~rio. aid 1. years ekes ragiscr-tiac of TV cots os. in affett.
fulae  ItOTi                                                                       Spnpttr lt"Im te  th-aned eccultia"i - Sh-s  the  -var.g    yed.l-
Iee IoMoo   r "u Io eca .ciet. (194-71 *s 1001    les". of par ..ylt.              io  of""5  "daily, geerl Aiotert osnepapen"  dmfoda            eiodical pbhli
.o..-I prodooia  of al  fs1  taeitie".  prftuctien enoldee seed and                     oati   devoted orli-rily to --oodicg general fp.  II.   eaeidred to
faet act io o                  baaiarpSr  Laa.  tansediLtIes neve  pbri  Roods         he "daily" if it appeare at leent feur tt-e   A  -sk.
lo.g.esu n  instead ef occ,r) ehioh an edible ai   nt.tic cotriente                  ClL:aee  ttnac   c   sIteever-gn   othtke ciebe
'en. cf feeend lsers  1nladd).  ogrgte production of each .-etry                Lotdre   h   .r   nldn    isas  to drv-nolcaat ,bl
is hsuedP  ictionl onenag  p-sduer p%rice enight..                               omits..
Potg -ait eeel of talotlt, ardrn-ofII--- Iputed tt
coengy eq.ivel1nt of set fodcdnuppILcs-!vs;llahln  -c-ostry per copita             _______________
pu  day.  hoilahl  euppliec oaploent    daes,tic protection, imperts le..        'yelbrfre(tosne      eninlyatv'esnu   olde    r
..Pe.-., und  hoheeai  strk    co   vytescue  celPa,as                                 fotceoai  on thayed hot  Ectlutt-e huectre- Ptuar             , itc.dlgf rol-
quniie    cd It fodponei, en  llle  In dietributien.  mu-                        time  in variou  coutrise are not  Potpablhe.
qoicnto tored cciasdbtLvkad  nfyallgus   et,foSsnmaj~gg     - Pena. labor Pores as pe-astoos of total laker forc..
.al at.Itton.n  health lose id.rig  -otnsiesete1 tsopertur., body                        t~ss.g4,    uE      - Leho  forte i. fereco.S  fereet. honting act fishing
urot,eal ac _ood-latnthut a of populaiem, and a11latn, 10 Per-                  as perceecago of total laker forc..
tat Poroan  at  rootdiol  lee.-  ber                                             5jlProein   gt    - taker fotIc iig.acruin,ecoctloed
-Porcaie eatl o f-doen      n par          d i   Yotei foo teot of pe                    lcrict,  vetee acd gnet an pencetage of totel Ibhon font..
tapt. ca ttepl ffn  per day.d of ett opply of tou iay  .defne  atorf.
akos.   oqorsiotsfornIlteetrls atehiehd h  uss.  corde  or          psrieietie fte  eereeI         -  etforele.Pdreai   -  ert tipti oro
of                          20 gr -in            p~~~~~~~arcstivte ace  srf tota ted and tftal  ppl.t eda ofst  loh.n fucca
af-- etopo    Pll 1aco  Pofteinca of  total1 prtaen perIdy aid 20 cres                 pe-nae   ftnl   essdfnl ouaino   l   gsreptily
of enlee  aed polc protel, of chik 10 gra   ehould  e onieslProtaid  1960, 1970 end 1975 data.  These aIn  11O.0  prtitipetil  rtes relctn
Th-e  steandeld  are Inr theo th-n  of 75 grce sf tetal peeesec-o   tucueo  tep.leic   nd1m   I   trnd     v   -feestte ge
23 inn  of e.nlal protein a8 n   sver-gm  ter the onrld, propoe  by                    en.-fin   stie-al  teuce.  p.inad  -                 -trd            ,f .tot
FdO it the Third WIlend Foot SOev7.                                                    anmi- dentinrow r.i...t...             pouaio.idr1  ad61edcont
pe  elt  ttIc saey             - aualdd sules-  Protein ucPply ot fohode  freI   gecepo  l-.yas
dsfadfa  Iedal  act pueI.     sfee  par tay.
Child ls.14   uteity rate fonr th,Aec,a            - AenesI deethe pen theo-         DCN       
Aidinag  5rup1- yar, to chiLdrein oithie age grop; fop doet                   pecntg   f  rvt. tnorus  (both to ta-k Aed kcind) .... 1d by rllh.ct 5
dovelotneounttieedata  erive   fren  ife tklae.perct, richest 20 Percent. pooteet 20 poncect. Ott pocet-  4i pr-teo
HEALT                                                               o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f hsueeholdo.
te  a  htc;  96,1970.                          of, 177  en.IPoifi dk_i                       OtIP
to   erof etc per cbocd lIebk.                                                    Absolute porety incoas eI   ts 1L  that lnm   leo,eStwicM  in"In
Alclfc coc -I, s-sE  IoncESt of eenu1eti-I  totl.onh . aed ro-e   -                        -utnittcaly  dadquate di.t plca.. eentie1 eo-f.ond   iqonuot   -0O
.l.!her of Puople fnoca,ura,and cora) slth rneeeach.e.....e  so                        efford.bls.
ofo sanr sorPlY fincludec treated e-f-a _ut.re  on ontr..uad kot                   iciee  eltv   oety Lnc               .-Isoal ussncol    -u               .Ioe  rurl 
..ncottaciv.td cete  :uch as that from  p-,t..ttd b-rholeu, optnIgc.                 gunel Vel-etie  pnty iua   lve  is( me-thirdo  c               Se'g Pen lItc
and  -ta-  veIls- oA  percetage. of thc.nL  . ncpectbv   populations.                  p-reool lucas of thc c-ntty.  tlInk  level L. d.,Irod Pmo  thr rura
louheneepolin  foontoi  or stespust 1eeted not  -ot  than                        teol  titl  edjostuet for higher teot  rI lining in   h. oraec..
I1)ae o fpn           - tu  nay he caedrd asb Iete tethle reecacble                  itrmted         .9ultm hel1. ehooot. oust  ncs-vlrenat -na   n
attest uf Othe  houc..l  rura -     rea r-  -onoabl. armes  -Iud imply                url-pr, ono   popultion   aoke nd t-nsI  oh.ere  `.hottott po-t'.
dlcnconintepot, ef the a.v  In  .lehokinl he fenilyn. aster  ea.d,                                                             tEut-i  -od so-la1 lal  Itlln
r,ooni ;J lv  to-k  ant P-electIone  ea



24-ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                           ESTIMATE             PROJECTED
1970         1975         1976        1977 /1        T1978          1979         1385
NATIONAL ACCOUWNTS /2
(US$ mil. at 1975
Prices)
Gross Domestic
Product (GDP)  22,519.9    30,931.9    32,138.2         34,612.8       36,897.2      38,557.6      48,787.7
Gains from Terms
cf Trade           148.9          0           69.1            0           332.6           0             0
Gross Domestic
Income          22,668.8    30,931.9    32,207.3        34,612.8      37.229.8       38.357.6      48.557.6
Imports           6,519.8      8?832.0      8,493.2       9,636.8      10,038.5       10,344.8      12,857.0
Exports--Volume -5,022.7    -6,426.0    -7,026.9         -6.712.8      -6.761.7       -6.896.6    -10.952.4
Exports--Terms
of Trade
Adjusted        -5,171.6    -6,426.0    -7,095.1        -6,712.8      -7,094.3       -6,896.6    -10,952.4
Resource Gap      1,348.2      2,406.0      1,398.1       2,924.0        2,944.2       3,448.2       1,904.6
Consumption      16,339.6    23,123.5    22,778.2        25,367.6      26,820.2       27,850.8      34,266.7
Investment        7,677.4    10,214.4    10,827.2        12,169.2      13,353.8       14,155.0      16,405.6
National
Savings          6,993.2      9,211.4    10,992.2       10,817.0      12,520.3       12,516.5      15,713.7
Gross Domestic
Savings          6,329.2      7,808.4      9,429.1       9,245.2      10,409.6       10,706.8      14,501.0
GDP at Current
US$              13,766.4    30,931.9    42,336.6        50,154.9       58,480.6      68,422.3    123,803.8
SECTOR OUTPUT
(share of GDP
at 1975 prices)
Agriculture             .182         .152         .160          .156          .139          :134           .130
Industry                .410         .480         .472          .478          .487          .494           .508
Services                .408         .368         .367          .366          .374          .372           .362
PRICES
(1975 -100)
Exports Price
Index               52          100          104           117            128           145           210
Imports Price
Index               50          100          103           117            122           145           210
Terms of Trade
Index              104          100          101            100           104           100           100
GDP Deflator         61          100          132            145           158           177           254
Annual Average
Exchange Rate       12.50        17.39        18.19          18.30         18.64          -             -
SELECTED INDICATORS             1976-78      1978-85
Import Elasticity                 .71           .88
Average National
Savings Rate                     .33           .32
marginal National
Savings Rate                     .30           .27
Imports/GDP                        .27          .26
Investment/GDP /3-                 .35          .34
Resource Gap/GDP                   .07          .06
/1 Preliminary.
/2 Components may not add up because of rounding.
/3  Including all statistical discrepancies.  In 1976, 1977, and 1978 large statistical discrepancies
exist as a result of vhich  components of final demand exceed total resources.  Since, in the
above table consumption has been reduced by this discrepancy and investment has not been changed
although it too is likely to account for part of the discrepancy, the share of investment is likely
to be an overestimate.
EflIDC
July 25, 1979



Vega -  S-f 6
BALAMCE OF PAY!ENTS ASD EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Ms$ Zillion)
Actual                                 :;1<cted
1974         1975        1976      1977       1978_1/      1979         1985
Exports (f.o.b.)                     3,805        4,072       4,878      S,254       S,671       6,900       15,000
Imports (c.i.f.)                     7,542        7,697       7,367      9,634       9,988      12,500       21,000
Trade Balance                     -3,737       -3,625      -2,469    -4,38D       -4,317      -5,600       -6,0CD
:Non-Factor Services Receipts        1,891        2,354       2,430      2,600       2,984       3,100        S,DOD
Non-Factor Services Paymants            795       1,135       1,301      1,641       2,259       2,500       6t,0
Son-Factor Services
Not Balance                      1,096        1.219       1,049        959         725         600       2,0CO
Factor Services Receipts             1,714        1,746       1,974      2,220       3,030       3,200        4,50D
Factor Services Payments               285          343         364        381         455         500        1,8W
Factor Services Net Balance        1.429        1,403       1.610      1,839       2,575       2,700        2,7WD
Current Account Balance             -1,185       -1,003         165    -1,582       -1,017      -2,300       -1.300
Capital Account-Medium
and Long-Term (net)                   612        1,156       1,193      1,615       1,300       1,700        2,000
Disbursenents                      1,426        2,171       2,096      2,665       2,700       3,400       7,0CO
Amortizaticn                        -814       -1,015        -903    -1,050       -1,400      -1,700       -5,0CO
Exports Credit Extended Net           -130          -80        -100       -213        -150        -200         -30D
Disbursements                       -215           -           -          -           -           -            -
Amortization                          85           -           -          -           -           -            -
Total Medium and Long-Term
(r. t)2/                              482        1,076       1,093      1,402       1,150       1,500        1,7e0
Short Term (net)                       263          127         -47        -19         182          -            -
Allocation of SDR's                      -            -           -         -           -           -            -
Change. in Reserves(--Increase)        438         -200      -1,211       -199        -315         300         -4oo
Gold, Foreign Exchange, SDP.         243          -63      -1,065         38        -250          -            -
Bilateral Balances                   195         -137        -146        161         -65          -            -
if   Preliminary
_/    External borrom'ing reported in the balance of payments is  not consistent with external debt data.
Eu,:ID    9
julv 25, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
-26-
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL
1973          1974         1975            1976          1977
M'edium- & Long-Term Debt (Disbursed only)- US $ million
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD) (end of period)                 4287.0       4925.9          5820.0        1145.1       8946.1
Including Undisbursed           (end of period)              5548.7       7709.7          8807.9        9696.4      12157.8
Public Debt Services            (during period)              -306.5       -394.2          -447.0        -305.2       -379.0
Interest                                                   -98.4        -105.3         -127.9         -143.0       -157.3
Other Medium- and Long-Term Debt Service(during pd.)   -746.4             -822.7          -989.7       -1134.8      -1233.3
Total Debt Service              (during period)             -1052.9      -1216.9         -1436.7       -1440.0      -1612.3
Debt Burden
Debt Service Ratio                                             23.9         21.4            22.4          19.7          20.2
Debt Service Ratio/l                                           18.4         16.9            17.3          15.7          15.9
Terms
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                 4.9          5.0             4.9           4.2           4.0
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                   24.6         24.7            24.7          20.2          18.0
Dependency Ratios for Medium- & Long-Term Debt
Gross Disbursements/Imports                                    37.0         20.6            27.3          32.8          30.7
Net Transfers/Imports                                          13.7          4.5             8.7          13.3          14.0
Net Transfers/Gross Disbursements                              36.9         21.8            31.7          40.5          45.6
_F,xposure
Worl(d Bank Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements             3.0          5.8             7.3           4.9           4.5
World-Bank & IDA Disbtursements/Gross Total Disbursements  3.0               5.8             7.3           4.9           4.5
World Bank DOD/Total DOD                                        8.2          8.6             9.6           9.2           8.5
World Bank & IDA DOD/Total DOD                                  8.2          8.6             9.6           9.2           8.5
World Bank Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      3.6          3.6             3.9           4.7           5.3
World Bank & I)A Debt Service/Total Debt Service                3.6          3.6             3.9           4.7           5.3
/1   Including workers' remittances.
EMlDC
Jll,1y 25, 1979



- 27-                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of July 31, 1979)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-one Loans fully disbursed                                   567.6
777     1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water  45.0        9.1
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                    Tourism               20.0     0.3
836     1972   Twelve E3lectric Power
Enterpreises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0     0.7
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      1.2
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    20.5
990     1974   Bosnia-'Herzegovina
Road Funds                   Roads                 30.0     0.1
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit   28.0       0.4
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0          0.5
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways              93.0    18.1
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion    44.0    10.2
1066    1974   Vodovod. Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      3.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit              50.0    12.1
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                   Roads                40.0      4.0
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline              48.4     4.6
1262    1976   RepubliLcki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    11.8
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    34.4
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control             38.0    22.7
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit              50.0    16.7
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0          51.6
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titcgrad                    Industries          26.0      22.1



ANNEX II
- 28-                   Page 2 of 10 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      21.7
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0      17.7
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic              Transmission         80.0     61.7
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka          Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      70.3
1534     1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                  Railways             100.0      87.9
1535     1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia        Roads                 80.0     53.6
1561     1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine       Hydro Power           73.0      65.6
1611     1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      39.2
1612     1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      18.7
1613     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      17.3
1614     19.78   Investiciona Banka         Fourth Industrial
Titograd                   Credit               20.0      16.1
1616     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0      80.9
1621     1978   Privredna Banka,            Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                  Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      55.0
1678/a   1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia    Roads                 148.0    148.0
Total (less cancellation)                            2,265.4    997.5
of which has been repaid                             248.0
Total now outstanding                                2,017.4
Amount sold                             8.5
of which:  Amount repaid              7.7              0.8
Total now held by Bank                               2,016.6
Total undisbursed                                                997.5
/a   Declared Effective August 14, 1979.



- 29-                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at July'31, 1979)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation      -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0k   8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev       Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry           7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry        13.7    3.3      17.0
1972   Sava Semperit                          Tires            11.3    3.8      15.1
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvcrnica Papira           Pulp and Paper  13.3       -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0      -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant    10.0       -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                             Steel            50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Indus,trija Smrznute        Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing       4.0    2.5       6.5
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.6    2.6      18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors      7.0     -        7.0
Total Gross Commitments                               147.4   24.8    172.2
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjuatment, repayment
and sales                                             78.9    2.6      81.5
Total commitmeats held by IFC                          68.5   22.2      90.7
Total Undisbursed                                      12.3    5.7       18.0



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. The main dam
is completed and the reservoir is being filled. A small part of the irriga-
tion network has been completed with the remainder expected to be completed
by 1980 and 1981. Project costs have been above appraisal estimates, but the
overrun financing is being provided by the Province of Kosovo and from Federal
sources. Delays have been encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjust-
ment. Consultants have been engaged to help find solutions, and the Kosovo
Government has enacted appropriate legislation. After a delay of about five
years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which will assist
in the provision of agricultural extension services to the individual sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  June 12, 1972; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobifizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated ($49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs.  The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,000 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about $1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks, but another change in sponsorship is required
and is currently being discussed with the participating parties. The 1978
season was good. A further extension of the Closing Date to December 31, 1979
has been necessary to permit disbursement of the small balance of the loan
(approximately $300,000) earmarked for the final payment against a computer
installation scheduled for spring 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission:  US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date:  December 29, 1972; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The Project construction has progressed slowly, but has virtually
been completed, about two years late. Its cost has increased to about $428
million (up 90 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The resulting
cost overrun is being financed from funds received from the Federal Republic
of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources. Appoint-
ment of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976, but their recom-
mendations have now been made and are being discussed with JUGEL and the
Borrowers and implementation of many of the recommendations is underway.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
All loan furLds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 42 are completed, one is under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory. The Closing Date of the loan, originally
December 31, 1978, has been postponed to October 31, 1979, to permit comple-
tion on disbursements to suppliers of equipment.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by mid to late 1980.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
All road sections are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments are now being finalized. An EDI type training course
was given in Yugoslaivia in October 1978.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21. 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements accelerated after a slow start. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978, was postponed twice to December 31, 1979 to
allow full utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements to
equipment suppliers.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion. Tariff increases approved in 1977 and 1978 and institutional develop-
ments, including improved investment planning and management, the formation of
COIs and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies
have resolved the major problems. Rate of disbursement, initially behind
schedule, is now improving. Undisbursed balance of $20.8 million is fully
committed. Closing date has been postponed from June 30, 1979 to December 31,
1980 to allow full utilization of project funds and completion of disburse-
ments on contracts.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items was expected by end 1979.  The port authority has
been experiencing serious cash flow problems arising from delays in complet-
ing the project and in traffic build-up. Most recently, the earthquake in
Yugoslavia resulted in severe damage to port installations particularly in the
older parts of the port causing further delays and will require a reassessment
of the financial situation.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component has now been
completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage com-
ponent.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Ninety-seven percent of the loan has been committed.
Disbursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational
and learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the year and, as of June 30, 1979, 75 percent of the loan
proceeds were disbursed.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic. Work in Slovenia and Montenegro is on schedule. All road works should
be completed by the loan closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Dlate: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a one year slippage in the completion will occur. The
revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there will be a cost
overrun of about 45 percent because of required changes from original project
components and increases in local costs. The Borrower has taken steps to
obtain supplementary financing from various sources both foreign and local.
The economic viabililty of the project remains sound. Upon review of the award
of a site preparation contract in one case, and the procurement procedures
regarding a telemetry supervision control system in another case, the Bank
concluded that the procurement procedures were not in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000 and
$112,000, respectively) that would have otherwise been eligible for disbur-
sement were cancelled from the Loan.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 980.
The regional development study is finished, has been reviewed by the
Bank and discussed with the relevant Yugoslav authorities. The flood control
and water quality studies are underway after initial delays in selecting con-
sultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam has begun. Construction is completed
on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the remainder is well advanced.
Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice. Designs of sewage treatment
plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice are underway. The pilot irrigation components
which were delayed pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrange-
ments, are expected to get underway shortly. The creation of the Morava
Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than antic-
ipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties concerned
on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened in the
water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Morava Region Water
Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and construction is underway. Tendering for the
sewage treatment plant is completed and award is expected shortly.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Gas is scheduled to be available in Sarajevo by end 1979, one year
later than originally planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the
supply of gas were the the major cause of delay. All contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high pressure loop-line, as well
as for gas transmission line, have been awarded and construction is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed except
for a small part of the Kosovan bank's portion for which a project has been
submitted to the Bank. Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal
estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants, with the assistance of foreign consultants, have
been retained as project consultants and are proceeding with final designs on



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
the project components and preparation of bidding documents. Two local con-
struction contracts have been awarded as well as the major contract for the
construction of the dam. Overall project progress is about one year behind
schedule.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. ICB procurement for the winery
and the cold stores is completed.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all agro-industrial sub-projects have been approved by
the Borrower. Twenty two sub-projects in the individual sector have been
approved committing 60 percent of loan proceeds. Slower than expected imple-
mentation (contract award for construction agro-industries facilities) due
primarily to lack of employment of agro-industries specialist by Borrower.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has been
completed by the consultant awarded. The studies on Road-User Charges and
Rail Costs are substantially complete. Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 84 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical execution has started with the most critical sub-stations and
lines. The least cost development study and tariff study have been submitted
to the Bank and are being translated.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit:  US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and
indicated that funds will be committed faster than under the first project,
although behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
ContractirLg has progressed as expected and the majority of the loan
has already been committed.



36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan 1535 Nirth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contractor prequalification for all project road sections has been
approved, and the construction contracts have been awarded for road sections
in Croatia and Serbia. Slovenia has delayed construction due to protest by
residents in the area of the Celovska Interchange that some measures must be
taken to abate noise pollution. Resident agreement to abatement solutions is
expected shortly.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The loan became effective November 16, 1978.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each Loans
of July 26, 1978; Effective Dates: November 16, 1978; Closing
Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans became effective November 16, 1978.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major contracts for construction of the dam, alimentation canal and
main canal have been awarded. Consultants have been awarded contracts for
preparation of three irrigation studies.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Kraiina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan became effective March 28, 1979.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1978; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
All five participating Republics/Provinces have completed prequalif-
ication of contractors and have established monitoring and evaluation units.



- 37 -                          ANNEX III
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO 'EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT - HIGHWAYS
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
project:                              From April 15 and May 24, 1979 (date
of earthquakes), final designs will
be completed by the end of April, 1980.
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        Roads Organization of Montenegro;
with the assistance of the Belgrade
Institute for Roads and the Civil
Engineering Institute, Zagreb
(c)  First presentation to Bank:          May 1979
(d) First Bank missicn to consider
the project (Appraisal):             June 1979
(e) Second Bank mission to consider
the project (post appraisal):        July 1979
(f) Negotiations substantially
completed:                           August 1979
(g)  Loan Effectiveness planned:          October 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank wiLl maintain close cooperation with the Borrower to ensure
that procurement procedures cause no delays in the urgent work of rehabilitating
the damaged roads.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  As conditions of the loan, the Borrower would agree to:  (a) submit
detailed proposals for subprojects to be subject to international
competitive bidding to the Bank for approval prior to execution
(para 53); and (b) supplement its capability for project supervision
with the services of any qualified organizations acceptable to the
Bank (para 52).
(ii) As conditions of loan effectiveness: (a) the Republic of Montenegro
will have adopted regulations authorizing the construction of and
providing the local financing for the rehabilitation program, includ-
ing a guarantee to cover possible cost overruns (para 52 and Loan
Agreement Section 7.01(a) and (b)); and (b) the Borrower will have
delegated authority to the Investment Bank of Titograd (IBT), to act
as fiscal agent for the project and also as liaison agent between
the Borrower and the Bank on the project-related matters (para 52
and Loan Agreement Section 7.01(c)).



- 338 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
Cosgt tiCllotes of bartt.soike Oo nrte
r-"~~~~~~~~_ 7U7 Id TQPA R-0r-
Re-  .  9e-= 10   Petch    pseorfec.  ituiillae  etaoleg   Slide   I .ock                                  Replace teeai.   - ocic   Misc.   as e        Picse   Ply-.      Tc-t 
Rcad sccti.ne                  icalicoseot r4 cc irc  I?secscoi  reeciscot  rcocec   Slid's      0.1is_  Prrgs Dvlooase lit l o _  escore.  Drainage   bTriO.   Scidees   annel.  Weerks   bee        rae   Coc c       Cesa
1 . hittIi7' _'.
I.  Or Lc      - t   s                83.11       4.16     8.13     18.0       9.35       10.39       5.19                                           5.19               0.31             5.61  149. 77   12.629   29.955    202.361
2. kaecioel-ri0-CeIo-                 47.58               19.43      9.35      4.49                   6.31       1.01       0.94         3.90        5.19               6.67             1.56  106.425   16.079   21.236    143.190
5.  4ccc- lopts                                                     14.13                             10.39                                                                              1.04   25.517   3.856    5.111       34.524
4.   ac-b.tic Tl.nsjeeo,ir et                                       14.40      1.6S                   2.08                                                                                       MO.T39    2.741   3LI2U      24.507
5.  Re !ic,aict. 4I7d.ga-reteeo                  33.76     2.40      2.10      5.98        6.91       2.71      4.62       10.73         5.77                           5.69     1.25    1.30   91.217   13.782   18.243    123.241
6.    cag-,,    Ir.VleJ                                   10.86      1.66     11.22       36.36        7,27     0.38        6.23        10.39                          34.32     5.61    2.00  130.602   19.732   26.121    176.454
8.- Istr.,aso.0.TieoUad              ~~~~2.08  1.23    11.43      12.73       20.78       7.48      2.02       9.02        10.67                 04.01                       5.19  109.766   16.584   5..953    148.302
7.  li-sgrlbbal..Is.                                _ -      -. _   20.79      7.79        7.27      _160      20.0       __            20.79       -         -        -        -        0.36   79.579   I-    15.916    1071.51
5e1.lotsl                        130.69      4080   42.15       98.13     58.22       79.71      4.03      32.04      36.93        0.2L3        i0.38    1k11   47.19        6.99   17f14  711.061  1070430  142. 212    9_0 04
L   Oieegcsd-.Cs90a3e                       8~~~~~~~~.38  5.98                         10.39                                                                                     22.752    3.438    4.550    20.740
73.  Csi03e Ides                                            2.49      7.19      0.65        5.19      __        10.93      15j59          5.19                                    3.79    3.56   52.43     7.9123   10.49!     30.S40
Sabitotl                                              Jafl      13.15    .AaA         5.1931      l.l      110^1        5IL.       .2 JU a'l   1.51   71.190   11.361   15.032   i.oQLgU
It.  eisan:cc.I,o                                           2.90      5.19                             7.27      2.51       2.08                      0.52                                1.06   21.514    3.251    4.303     29.066
12.            1 Kao-cIc-1.d..i                                                 2.91        4.16                                         5.12                                             1.25   11.428    1.727    1.201     iS.440
13.  lroIca.cc!t leJe-se                                              7-Z7                  3.12       7.27     10.18       2.90                                                          1.04   31.780   4.902    6.3T8      42.937
14. Oc. tas-             a2.12                                                  5.13        6 *.23     2.08      2.31                    2.08                            3.12             1.04   22.076   3.3356   4.415      29.379
I5. Cck-nJs.C.co-Nltsi                                     _          2.08     -           -           4.16    _             _                                                            1.56  7.792    1.177    1.558       10.527
Sab-Iai                                               2.90      16.69     JaI         fla        221       am22        -i Jai   4.5 .2                   D         J          0        n    9.4i9  .14.0291   212    127. 799
Toal                             130.69      49.08    53.83    727.88     84.88       98.41      73.28     77.95      57.497        83.90       10.98     14.18    50.38    10.49 S   .62  11830 ,80 123.042  176.168 4193.09
ale 29 r9



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Y U G O S L A V I A                                         Page 2 of 2
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION
PROJECT
COST  ESTIMATES
Bank
YD x thousand                  US$ x million!'          Partici-
Road Section                Local    Foreign       Total     Local   Foreign    Total    pation
A. MAIN ROADS
I. Adriatic Highway: 2/
1.  Debeli Brijeg-Kamenari           100.350    49.426    149.776    5.366    2.643          8.009      2.643
2.  Kamenari-Risan-Kotor               71.305    35.120    106.425    3.813    1.878         5.691      1.878
3.  Kotor-Lepetane                     17.123     8.434      25.557    0.916    0.451        1.367      0.451
4.  Lepetane-Tivat-Radinovici          12.153     5.986      18.139    0.650    0.320        0.970      0.320
5.  Radinovici-Budva-Petrovac          61.115    30.102      91.217    3.268    1.610        4.878      1.610
6.  Petrovac-Bar-Ulcinj               87.503    43.100    130.602    4.679    2.305          6.984      2.305
7.  Petrovac-Virpazar-Titograd         73.543    36.223    109.766    3.933    1.937         5.870      1.937
8.  Titograd-Rolasin                   53.317    26.261      79.578    2.852    1.404        4.256      1.404
Sub-Total      476.410   234.650    711.060   25.477   12.548    38.025    12.548
II. Titograd-Cetinje-Budva:
9.  Titograd-Cetinje                  15.244      7.508      22.752    0.815    0.402        1.217      0.402
10.  Cetinje-Budva                      35.133    17.305      52.438    1.879    0.925        2.804      0.925
Sub-Total       50.377    24.813       75.190    2.694    1.327       4.021      1.327
B.I. REGIONAL ROADS
11.  Risan-Grahovo                      14.414     7.100      21.514    0.770    0.380        1.150      0.380
12.  Kotor-Trojica-Radinovici            7.657      3.771     11.428    0.409    0.202        0.611      0.202
13.  Trojica-Cetinje-Lovcen             21.293    10.487      31.780    1.139    0.561        1.700      0.561
14.  Virpazar-Ostros-Vladimir           14.791     7.285       22.076    0.791    0.390       1.181      0.390
15.  Cekanje-Cevo-Niksic                 5.221      2.571       7.792    0.279    n.138       0.417      0.138
Sub-7otal       63.375    31.215       94.590    3.389    1.669       5.058      1.669
TOTAL     590.163   290.677    880.840   31.560   15.544    47.104    15.544
Contingencies:
Physical 20%        118.033    58.135    176.168    6.312    3.109          9.421      3.109
Escalation  3/       89.165    43.917    133.082    4.768    2.348          7.117      2.348
Sub-Total      207.198   102.052    309.250   11.080    5.457    16.538          5.457
T TOTAL       797.361   392.729   1190.090   42.640   21.001    63.642    21.000
1/  US$1   YD 18.70
2/  From Debeli Brijeg to Bar was previously constructed under Loan 344-YU: from Bar to Ulcinj was preViously
constructed under Loan 678-YE. (Items AI, 1-6)
3/  Price escalation calculated on the basis of local costs increasing at 12% per annum over the next three years,
and foreign costs increasing at 7% per annum.



or 



IBRD-14473
JUlLY 1979
.                        ~~~~~~~Y U G O  S l A V I A
Ss (\~                        ARHQAK   Montenegro
NIA-                               MtIo                            EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
BOSN/A-  ' -  "s        SEISMIC IMPACT OF APRIL 15, 1979 EARTHQUAKE
HERCEGOV/NA                                               \.col R-gionol Int.rr.g,unol
'N. \   sx                                       -            Paved roads
7.                                                         -----Gravel roods
.                         ~~~~~~~~~~~Railway
PLJEVLJ                           ~~~~~~~~Autonomous province boundary
/ !3scopciilpje o           PLJEVLJ\.                              *-*-Republic boundaries
\  '.                   ~~~~~~~International boundary
(.-4imeinjei                                                                         6 /  E\MCS (Modified Mercalli Scale)
\   i                               oso~~~~~ ~ ~~               ~      ~~~~nico a    
I- | oTrso                                          Koure-. 
(       Pluiiseo) - -          2obli        olk   OjurdevicoiToro d
Plrw               1\                             lur oI i:6 b
9E_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B    IJELO POLJE 
Krstac        Vajcwvo Poije                                                          E    POUE
  f        "          tX            g S~~~~         ~          ~        ~~~~~~~Ovnik  t^oevoc                                   ,,
*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-
Gorne                                                              IVANGRAC
Polje                                                   inIRle
Kuside                                                                                                          Kula aati  orc  atlv
iIiMonastirMorc---- -                                                                        riievica    /
Nuda~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Th--___qGrahovo         \         9                           | ;[(                     ^.>   Murino<>            I  KOSO       VO
ITOGRAD. \                    A  )J    -   .  PIA ov N
5~tt9toAS    /                                                                                    j >sTx 
;E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ c, .~vrpc9  .1 w5'i -u9  S m 
nil  ad                                      S /,    S==



I



IBRD 14474
JULY 1M
Y U G O S L A V I A
Montenegro
'-'\Medil<l>\ %EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATON PJEC
BOSNIA-                   !                                              LINKS DAMAGED BY EARTHQUAKE
HERCEGO V/NA                                                                                  Local R.g,oool lntrr.gtoncl
"u    -,,\So       -S                               _   Powd roods
N.7-"*.                                                                    Gravel roads
- ,-09         ""nir.^, pV^/                      Lin&s damag;ied by earthquake
-.-Railway
v  !t    sj  %   PLJEVL LJ                 Autonomous province boundary
/    Republic boundaries
~~~~~International boundary
J ~     ~         ~         ~        ~~ /         \\    i\;UEO  OJ 
Ks (tac     t     ov PoRie                     )                             SIJEL  POIJ
(   \   t   a SvniiL            PAMojbvac                                       -. n
:t,,j   \\ssss           >                              )JX'                                              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kore-,
th                    Gornitif      /                              tGornjin        IVANGRAC                  'loDe )
Paije~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~j*om
KusWde
,' N7IKIC               Manantir M o c               '---teM   --_Ainrdrijevica    j
jius          bour                                                                    \'
Nudo
q--___ 9Grrshovo  (   \\                         |;                     ->   Murino        a        KOSOVO
t             N t0 \/)2                                           /'t       ,        jDPlov    \
r\a Ccvo \+Otv /( Jusinje
fa zi  r,P              S A                        ,.,   -  \\.,.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -o-  
\ Kotor  Cnje            TOGRITOGRAD                 ;L B A N 'A
Ronoi j                     ijnoka Cr);
IA                                                 o r                                          j '  '  ' I  k   
v  d r L> a / / *   r tff>Ya   X   ese t    >~~~~*N~&oI
tom    20    30             0
C, A V I A                                     Itn                                       Ig;: I    I .-
~~~~~--UGOS                        lad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.scns fsccO MtTErs S



P
I



IBRD 14475
Y U G O  S L A V I A                        JUY 1979
I g                                               Montenegro
e \Me    \ \                              EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
BOSNIA                          {   MetalfxK  .>                                                        TRAFFIC FLOW
HERCEGO  V/ NA                                                                                                       1977traffIcflow m    Vehicles per 24 hours
N                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1982 traffic flow 
?g5 |'                     -     E, Fi3    9  Interregional roads
5*7 z   6~ t   ~     caKr 'r2Regionol roads
O~~~S                C2C                         ro/ ~~~PJELocal roads
'S-cepoinsPolieRaly
_      eAuno.  LJERon,wous proaince boundary
*              *      /                   *                              \          \             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -Republic boundaries
I91w                                f\                                     -.aInternaational boundVry
\   i                           <w\K~~~~~~~~~~~~osonicrvt       
Plulineo              e           i           a          Tr                                         
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ in Vd                                                          -5 F A'   I'.
N~~~~~~~~~~j ~ ~ ~ ~
Krstac    205     8aaea Polte                          1039                   6364              JEL  POJoni
\                4                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anasfir MMteso
Goruh~~raovo                                                                                                 Mu{\  r,Fv>  ul   KOSOVO
y~~ niC olovgrcxd _(9sne
;                      -J-:j                                                   g                           e   0    '. .  2b;LOVCe  .T
d.:4>>N  a  NiSt    D    r   .     Utinj             re  -         -    -        7XtrXX  -rHbt9               Pd                    <~~~AFIC FOW S  OUR



