CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1759 YU
Loan Agreement
(Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Highways)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
REPUBLIKA SAMOUPRAVNA INT3ESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
PUTEVE, S.R. CRNA GORA, TITOGRAD
(Self-Managing Republic Community of Interest
for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, Titograd)
Dated September 21, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1759 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE,
S.R. CRNA GORA, TITOGRAD (Self-Managing Republic Community of
Interest for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro,
Titograd) (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Socialist Republic of Montenegro (hereinafter
called Montenegro) has adopted or will adopt or cause to be
adopted all regulations necessary to authorize the carrying out of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including
inter alia the provision of financial resources required for the
complete carrying out of the Project and to be made available by
Montenegro to the Borrower;
(B) Montenegro has agreed to make available or cause to
be made available, on appropriate terms, any additional funds
required for the carrying out of the Project over and above the
funds to be made available in accordance with the regulations
referred to in Recital (A) above and the Loan provided hereunder;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project, by making the Loan as provided herein-
after;
(D) the Borrower has agreed or will take such actions as are
necessary to designate IBT (as this term is defined herein-
after) as its representative for certain other purposes under this
Agreement as is hereinafter set forth;
(E) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into this Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
and
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower for such purposes, in
the amount and on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set
forth or referred to;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)   the term "IBT" means Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udru2ena Banka (Investment Bank of Titograd-Associated Bank), a
bank established and operating in Montenegro pursuant to the
Self-Management Agreement on Association and the Statutes, both
dated January 16, 1978, as amended from time to time; and
(b)   "Borrower's Statutes" means the Statu.es of the Bor-
rower, dated January 23, 1975, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project


﻿-3-
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety hundredths per cent (7.90%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall designate or cause IBT
to be designated as its representative for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
set forth or referred to in Sections 2.02, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07 and
2.08 of this Agreement, and Articles III, IV and V and Sections
6.01 and 6.05 of the General Conditions; and for such purpose,
IBT and the Borrower shall take such actions as are set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate
engineering, administrative, financial and highway transport
practices in such practical manner as shall ensure the most
efficient execution of the Project as a whole; and shall pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-4-
(b) Without any limitation upon the provisions of the
foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
include in the Project only those civil works which shall have
been agreed upon from time to time between the Bank and the
Borrower on the basis of appropriate technical studies.
Section 3.02. With respect to the supervision of the con-
struction works under the Project, the Borrower shall seek the
assistance, to the extent required, of any qualified organization
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
(through IBT), for its approval, promptly upon their prepar-
ation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construc-
tion schedules for the civil works necessary to carry out the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) (acting through IBT) furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall cause IBT to maintain records
adequate for the purposes of Sections 2.09 and 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-5-
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall exercise its powers and
functions with respect to all public roads in Montenegro (except
roads falling within the jurisdiction of municipalities), so as to
ensure: (i) that such roads will be adequately maintained and
repaired in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices, and that the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required therefor will be provided, promptly as needed;
(ii) that the systematic collection and recording of such tech-
nical, economic and financial data will be continued as shall be
reasonable for the proper planning or maintenance, improvements
and extensions of such roads; (iii) that its road development
program will be updated annually, and in particular, such actions
will be taken as shall be needed to prepare a second three-year
part (mid-1982 to mid-1985) of its highway development program
with detailed analyses and updated traffic data; and (iv) that
the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using such roads shall
not exceed such limits as are appropriate to the design standards
for such roads.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times have expe-
rienced and competent management and carry out its operations and
manage its affairs in accordance with sound engineering, business,
financial and administrative principles and practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with sound practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and properties, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering and administrative practices.


﻿-6-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall at all times maintain the
right to carry on its operations, and take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall neither sell, lease, transfer, assign nor otherwise
dispose of any of its rights, property or assets except in the
ordinary course of business.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its highway operations and its financial
resources and expenditures related to such operations.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more thaa
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Montenegro shall have failed to provide, as and when
needed, the financial resources provided under the regulations
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement;
(b) Montenegro shall have failed to carry out any agreement
referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement;
(c) any provision (i) of any of the regulations referred to
in Recital (A) of this Agreement, or (ii) of any of the agreements
referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement, or (iii) of such
Articles of the Borrower's Statutes as affect in any way whatever
the Borrower's ability to carry out the Project or the Borrower's
existence as an independent organization, or (iv) of such Articles
of IBT's Self-Management Agreement on Association or Statutes as
affect in any way whatever IBT's ability to carry out any of the
obligations in the Loan Agreement contained in respect of IBT,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or terminated
without the prior approval of the Bank; and
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relevant contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the events
specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
(a) Montenegro has adopted regulations in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, as referred to in Recital (A) of this
Agreement, and such regulations are in full force and effect;
(b) Montenegro has given guarantees, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, to make available, or cause to be made
available, all necessary funds required for the carrying out of
the Project, including cost-overruns, as referred to in Recital
(B) of this Agreement, and such guarantees are in full force and
effect; and
(c) all necessary consents and approvals have been given for
IBT to undertake the obligations referred to herein.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the regulations referred to in paragraph (a) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly adopted and are in
full force and effect;
(b) that the guarantees referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly and validly given
and are in full force and effect; and
(c) that the consents and approvals referred to in paragraph
(c) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly and validly
given and are in full force and effect.
Section 7.03. The date December 20, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udrugena Banka
Bulevar Revolucije 1
81000 Titograd
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                      Telex:
IBANKA                             61-118 YU
Titograd                           IBANKA
Yugoslavia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA
ZA PUTEVE, S.R. CRNE GORA, TITOGRAD
(Self-Managing Republic Comminity of Interest
for Roads of the Socialist Republic of
Montenegro, Titograd)
By /s/ Milutin Galovic
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to such Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Civil works               21,000,000        33%
TOTAL       21,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentage has been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$5,000,000, may be made in respect of civil works as determined in
agreement with the Bank, on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after April 15, 1979.
4.   Notwithstanding the disbursement percentage set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Loan then allocated to the Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures


﻿- 11 -
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in the Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Following the damages caused by earthquakes in 1979 to the
existing road network of Montenegro, the Project's objectives are
to limit further economic loss to said network by preventing
further physical deterioration and to restore it, in accordance
with modern practices, to service on-going economic activities.
The Project consists of works necessary to preserve or
restore damaged road facilities and to replace structures damaged
beyond repair, on about 560 km of inter-regional and regional
roads, as listed in the Annex to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 13 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
The list of road sections included in the Project, as such
list may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, is as follows:
Km
(Estimated
Length)
Inter-Regional Roads
(a) Adriatic Highway
1.   Debeli Brijeg-Kamenari                           26.7
2.   Kamenari-Risan-Kotor                             28.2
3.   Kotor-Lepetani                                   12.2
4.   Lepetani-Tivat-Radanovici                        13.9
5.   Radanovici-Budva-Petrovac                        31.0
6.   Petrovac-Bar-Ulcinj                              45.9
7.   Petrovac-Virpazar-Titograd                       56.3
8.   Titograd-Kolasin                                 69.1
(b) Road Titograd-Cetinje-Budva
9.   Titograd-Cetinje                                 44.6
10.   Cetinje-Budva                                    28.1
Regional Roads
11.   Risan-Grahovo                                    26.1
12.   Kotor-Trojica-Radanovici                          9.1
13.   Trojica-Cetinje-Lovcen                           60.5
14.   Virpazar-Ostros-Vladimir                         51.5
15.   Cekanje-Cevo-Niksic                              59.2


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1983
through   December 15, 1994                 875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.60%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              6.85%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.90%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank (through IBT) as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Conditions of bid invitation shall not require that foreign
firms enter into compulsory joint ventures with Yugoslav firms.
4.   (a) All bidders for civil works included under the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of the Guide-
lines.
(b) bid invitations for all contracts shall be advertised
also in well-known technical journals or trade publications
outside Yugoslavia.
(c) Foreign contractors shall not be required to register in
Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the event
that registration shall be necessary after a foreign contractor
has been notified that he will be awarded a contract, the Borrower
shall facilitate the registration.


﻿- 17 -
(d) A time period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for
submission of bids.
(e) Bid bonds or guarantees in the amount of at least
1.5% of the bid value shall be required with the submission of
bids.
(f) Each civil works contract shall be on a unit-price
basis and shall include:
(i) a price adjustment clause as described in paragraph
2.12 of the Guidelines;
(ii) a provision for retention money in the amount
of at least 5% of the contractor's monthly state-
ments;
(iii) an obligation to provide a performance bond in
the amount of 100% of the contract value or alter-
natively, at the contractor's option, a bank
guarantee in the amount of at least 10% of the
contract value; and
(iv) a provision allowing non-Yugoslav contractors
to convert into foreign exchange and to repatriate
a reasonable portion of contract payments, and to
import equipment and specialized manpower as
required to carry out their services.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Repair or rehabilitation works: (i) which must be carried
out urgently; or (ii) which cannot be appropriately packaged for
bidding purposes due to their scattered locations and diverse
nature, may be carried out by Yugoslav road maintenance working
organizations in agreement with the Bank on the basis of the unit
rates negotiated by Montenegro on behalf of the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower, through IBT,
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail
of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifi-
cations in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 18 -
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower,
through IBT, to the Bank for its comments before the appli-
cants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works to be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower, through IBT,
shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower, through IBT, shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower, through
IBT, and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
through IBT to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 19 -
3.   With respect to each contract for civil works referred to in
Part B of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
through IBT, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
D.   Cooperation between the Borrower and IBT
The Borro,er and IBT shall cooperate with each other in
taking Lny action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Actions to be taken by the Borrower and IBT in accordance
with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.09 of
the Loan Agreement:
1.   (a) Upon the Borrower's written request, IBT shall promptly
take the following action with respect to the Borrower's Loan:
(i) make applications for withdrawal from the Loan
Account and pay to the Borrower, or on its order
the amounts so withdrawn;
(ii) request the Bank to enter into any special commit-
ments in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.02 of the General Conditions;
(iii) give the Bank notice of any repayment in advance
of maturity in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General
Conditions;
(iv) request the Bank to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal, interest and
other charges, as provided by Section 4.05 of the
General Conditions;
(v) give the Bank any notice of cancellation in
accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 of
the General Conditions; and
(vi) in general, take any action required or permitted
to be taken by the Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the General Conditions and the Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 2.09 of the Loan
Agreement.
(b) Any request submitted to IBT in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (a) above shall be in such form, and
include such supporting documentation as IBT shall determine
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
2.   All payments to be made to the Bank by the Borrower shall be
made through IBT.


﻿- 21 -
3.   IBT shall assign qualified and experienced staff in suffi-
cient numbers for the carrying out of the actions to be carried
out by it on behalf of the Borrower in accordance with this
Schedule 5.


