Report No. 294a-JM
Jamaica                                                                          FILE Wr T
Appraisal of a Sites and Services Project
April 12, 1974
Transportation and Urban Projects Department
FO   EXCLUJSWY
USE W&I MiN THE
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Urit: Jaican 1 1p   (J$)
U8$1.0  = 0.909 Jamaican Dollara (4)
41 .0  -  1.10  11$
April 1 - March 31
DEIGHTS AM
1 meter        -  348 ,, t
1 squar meter - 10.76 wquaz  fqt
1 kilomter         0.62 mf.isi
1 hectAre          2.47 a*r.;
AED=WAT-IS/A0    NMS
DYOF - Developwaent Venture Capital Finaoing Cciqa
muA  - Kingaton Metropolitan Area
KSAC - Kingston-St. Adrewa Corporatioz,
MOH  - Ministry of Housing
QIR - Ministry of Mines and Natural 4@owrce
JIDC - Jamaica Industrial Development Corporation
JDB  - Jaaica Develont Banic
NPA  - National Planning Agency
PRVC - Phsical Resources Development Coitte
UDN  - Urban Developpent CorporAti±z



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................... i - v
I .  INTRODUCTION .....................................  1
II.  THE PROBL2!           ............ .  . .   1
A.  Urbanization, Housing and Unemployment   1......  1
B. Urban Planning  .......................         3
III.  THE PROJECT ...................................    4
A. Objectives, Description of Project and
Design Standards    .....................   4
B.  Squatter Upgrading ................ .........   9
C.    Industries         ............................... ,..  10
D.  Cost Estimates ................................ 14
E.  Procurement and Disbursement ............... .. 16
TV.  ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, AND PROJECT FINANCING ..  17
A. Executing Agency ............................. 17
B. Reorganization of the Ministry of Housing ....  19
C. Financial Terms and Conditions   . ..... ....... ,  20
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .    ........................... 23
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............... .... 24
This Report was prepared by appraisal mission members Messrs. W.P. McCulloch
(Chief of Mission), J. Balkind (Economist), D. Ahmad (Engineer) of Transpor-
tation and Urban Projects Department; P. Ragetly (Financial Analyst), Indus-
trial Projects Department; and H. Wehner (Economist-Consultant), with the
assistance of R. Bacarreza (Young Professional).



Table of Contents (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Urban Background
2.   Ministry of Housing/Sites and Services Project Unit
3.   Site Plans
4.   Design Standards and Cost Estimates
5.   Industries
6.   Property Taxation
7.   Economic Justification
MAPS AND CHARTS
Maps
1.   Jamaica - Project Location (IBRD - 10605)
2.   Kingston and Spanish Town - Site Locations (IBRD - 10606)
3.   Montego Bay - Site Location (IBRD 10607)
4.   Marcus Garvey Site - Layout Plan (IBRD - 10608)
5.   Spanish Town Site - Layout Plan (IBRD - 10609)
Charts
Organization of the Ministry of Housing
JIDC Organization Chart
JDB Organization Chart
Lot Development Options
Self-Help House Plan



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICFS PROJECT
SUMMARY AIND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Jamaica's urban problems, though most severe in Kingston, are
present in its other cities -- high rates of unemployment, maldis.ribution
of income, a shortage of housing for low-income families and a pressing need
for improved community facilities and basic services.
ii.       Existing programs based on heavily subsidized Government housing and
slum eradication, as well as fragmented, ineffective planning and capital-
intensive investments in industry have not dealt effectively with basic needs
for shelter, community services and jobs. The situation has deteriorated
during the past decade. Thus, despite a 5.5% annual growth in real output,
growth in employment has been only one-third the average annual increase in
unemployment. The housing stock for low-income families is stagnant despite
an annual population increase currently around 21,000 persons in the Kingston
Metropolitan Area, half of which is in-migration from rural areas.
iii.      Recent changes in Government policies now aim at providing:  decent
shelter for low-income families by assisted self-help programs; jobs
for those groups with the highest rates of unemployment, i.e., females, the
young and the unskilled; and supportive community facilities, such as day-care
centers, health clinics, schools and training facilities.
iv.       The proposed project is a first step to demonstrate the effective-
ness of this comprehensive approach to the problems of the urban poor. Of
necessity, the size of the project is limited by implementation capabilities
and will not meet all of the existing backlog or future growth requirements.
Hlowever, it will have a significant initial impact on housing and employment
through the provision of 6,000 serviced lots over a three-year construction
period. The project will concurrently undertake institutional reforms and
program evaluations, laying the basis for a continuing national low-cost
housing/sites and services program. These efforts also relate to an inte-
grated planning effort and accompanying policies such as the upward adjustment
of Jamaica's real property tax. The project itself is designed to maximize
self-help liousing and to be predominantly self-financing as the basis for a
long tena program.  It will have an additional employment impact because a
substantial portion of construction costs will be for labor and an estimated
l,O0O additional jobs are to be provided through small industries financing.
v.        The proposed project consists of:
(a) approximately 6,000 serviced lots located as follows:



(i) 3,940 in the capital area of Kingston-St. Andrews
(population 550,000);
(ii)  the remainder in Jamaica's next three largest cities:
a)  660 in Montego Bay (population 50,000);
b)  560 in Spanish Town (population 48,000); and
c) 840 in May Pen (population 32,000).
(b) related infrastructure and community facilities (125 primary
school classrooms, 14 day-care centers/basic schools, 8 health
centers, 12 community centers, 5 trade schools, 9 police posts
and 7 market sheds);
(c)  core units for individual water, sewerage and electricity
services, offering three different starting points for self-
help construction;
(d) a construction materials fund financed out of lot downpayments
to induce self-help house extensions;
(e) upgrading of two existing squatter areas in Kingston and one
in Montego Bay affecting about 2,750 households;
(f)  industrial financing, including supporting consultancy services,
for small- to meditum-scale industries which will create additional
employment at a low cost per job ratio;-
(g)  a diagnostic study aimed at reorganization of the Ministry
of Housing and reformulation of its long-term housing program;
(h)  an Urban Growth and Management Study aimed at better invest-
mient decision making and improved municipal services: and
(i) consultant services for detailed engineering, training for
staff executing the project and planning future investment
programs, and monitoring of the project by independent,
highly qualified professionals.
vi.       The sites are extremely well chosen from the critical viewpoints
of employment and transport linkages (including walking to work from several
sites such as Marcus Carvey and Prison Farms), existing and planned infra-
structure, and price of land (or availability in the case of inter-
Governmental transfer). In addition to the thorough qualitative analysis
undertaken in site selection, a quantitative economic analysis was carried
out to make certain that the sites were acceptable considering the oppor-
ttunitv cost of land. Two-thirds of the project is located in Kingston



- iii -
because that is where the problem is. However, the remainder of the project
is suitably distributed among the comparatively small secondary cities to
avoid over-concentration.
vii.      Alternative layouts and design standards were carefully considered.
The selected core unit designs offer three starting points for self-help ex-
pansion and range in cost (first year estimates) from J$ 1,110 to J$ 1,740.
The infrastructure components (roads, sewerage, drainage, landfill and elec-
tricity) range in cost per lot from J$ 790 to J$ 920. These combined costs
(infrastructure and core unit) appear to be high in comparison with other
countries where sites and services projects are under consideration. In the
Jamaican context, the evaluated design and cost levels constitute a low-cost
solution that is less than one-third the cost of normal built low-cost hous-
ing in Jamaica (comparable housing up to 1973 ranging from J$ 4,500 to J$ 7,000).
Jamaica's construction industry is high-priced. Unskilled labor earns a minimum
of USS5.50 per day, productivity seems low, and construction materials are
comparatively expensive due to oligopolistic practices and supply bottlenecks.
The Ministry of Housing is addressing itself to these problems in the diagnostic
study. These factors are compounded by Government's practice of negotiating
rather than tendering contracts, also a common practice in the private sector.
Two devaluations in the past year and a 25% increase in wage rates in 1973 have
aggravated matters. A further, substantial wage increase is expected in early
1975. Nevertheless, costs have been kept down primarily by trimming design
standards and increasing densities.
viii.     Lots will be allocated on a 40-year renewable lease basis to families
earning less than J$ 1,500 per annum (a figure falling in the 50th to 60th per-
centiles on the urban income distribution curve) at the time of lot allocation.
Mortgages will be based on actual construction costs attributable to each lot
and the cost of materials for completing the core unit. Approximately 25
percent of the lots will be charged a premium of J$ 200 each based on loca-
tional advantage. Approximately 25 percent of the lots will be allocated
to families earning less than J$ 900 per annum (estimated to be the 33rd per-
centile during the allocation period 1974 to 1976), and these lots will be
cross-subsidized by the above J$ 200 premium. Allottees will make a minimum
downpayment of J$ 150 which will be used to finance a revolving materials
fund. Allottees who borrow from the construction materials fund are
eligible to receive a grace period up to four years on their mortgages.
Interest foregone during the grace period will be capitalized and in-
cluded in the mortgage.
ix.       Detailed terms and conditions of leases will be agreed with the
Bank at the time of lot allocation. The leases will be inheritable and
alienable, except that during the first ten years of the lease Government
would have the right to determine the terms and conditions upon which the
lease may be transferred.
x.        The executing agency for the overall project will be the Ministry
of Housing which will formally establish a special Sites and Services Unit
for implementation, hiring such outside personnel as is necessary. The



iv -
Director of the Unit will be equal in rank to the Under Secretary of Housing
and will liaise closely with the Minister. Staffing and responsibilities
have been agreed; establishment of the Unit and appointment of the Director
has been done in consultation with the Bank. The industry component will be
executed by the Jamaica Development Bank (J.DB) and its affiliated Development
Venture Capital Financing Company in close collaboration with the Jamaica
Industrial Development Corporation (JIDC).
xi.       In addition to the specific arrangements for project execution, the
operations and structure of the Ministry of Housing need to be reorganized
and its long-term programs and policies reformulated. The Minister of Housing
has requested technical assistance for this so that the Ministry can more
effectively carry out the low-cost housing mandate of the 1968 Housing Act
and bring the Ministry's highly-subsidized and rather inefficient operations
under control. Terms of reference for a diagnostic study of the Ministry's
programs and operations were agreed during negotiations.
xii.      Total project costs based on detailed engineering for the first
year sites and preliminary designs for the community facilities are estimated
at US$34.9 million (J$ 31.7 million), including land valued at US$4.9 million
(J$ 4.4 million) and construction materials fund (US$1.9 million) neither of
which will be financed by the Bank. Approximately 50% of the construction
costs will be for labor; less than 25% of project costs will be foreign ex-
change expenditures.
xiii.     Six to eight contracts varying between about US$1.0 to 4.0 million are
expected to be awarded for civil works and core unit construction for the six
project locations in four towns. Government has agreed to international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines by advertising through
local newspapers and notification to embassies. In view of the priority of
the project, particularly the need to create employment and begin on Kingston's
critical low-cost housing needs, retroactive financing of up to US$500,000
is recommended. This would permit construction to begin in May/June 1974.
The first invitation for bids and detailed specifications were reviewed during
negotiations and are being revised.
xiv.      Of the estimated US$4.9 million land costs, only US$1.25 million
of land is being purchased by the Ministry of Housing, the rest having been
acquired by means of inter-governmental transfers. However, the land has been
fully costed at its highest and best alternative use for the economic analysis
and the project shows a favorable rate of return of 14.4%; this ranges from 10%
to 18% under various sensitivity analyses.
xv.       Since the foreign exchange component of this high priority project
is small, it is proposed that the Bank loan amount to the equivalent of 50% of
the total project costs excluding land. Disbursements would be at the rate
of 54% of total infrastructure, community facilities, lot development and
technical assistance costs and 75% of the industrial capital cost excluding
working capital. The proposed Bank loan would be US$15.0 million (JS 13.6



v
million) and would be repaid in 25 years with a six-year grace period, except
for the industries component which would be repaid on the basis of the com-
posite amortization of the subloans.
xvi.      With agreement reached on the conditions summarized in Section VI,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million equivalent.






JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      Bank involvement in Jamaica's urban problems dates to June 1970 when
a mission examined growth poles in Kingston, Hellshire Hills and Spanish Town
and issued a report to the Government questioning the feasibility of a sub-
stantial investment program by the IUrban Development Corporation (UDC) in the
Hellshire Hills/Mantee Bay Region. In July 1972, a mission identified the
proposed project following the impetus provided by the new Minister of
Housing's budget speech emphasizing sites and services as a key policy in
meeting Jamaica's low-cost housing requirements. Bank mi8siona in September
1972, November/December 1972 and January 1973 assisted the Government in
preparinR the project.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Jamaica in June 1973 comprised of Messrs. W.P. McCulloch (chief of
mission), J. Balkind, D. Ahmad, P. Ragetly and H. Wehner (consultant). In
connection with the small industries component, Mr. Ragetly visited Jamaica
from August 19 to 25, 1973, on a follow-up to the appraisal mission.
R. Bacarreza (Young Professional) assisted in preparation of the report.
II. THE PROBLEM
A. Urbanization, Housing and Unemployment
2.01      Jamaica is a small island, about the size of Connecticut, but with
difficult socio-economic problems confronting its 2 million inhabitants. The
situation is severe in the capital city, Kingston, where unemployment runs
near 25% and 40-50% of low-income households are without steads jobs. This
is compounded by maldistribution of income, extensive squatting, a high crime
rate, marked physical deterioration in central and west Kingston and inadequate
community facilities.
2.02      Population in Jamaica's urbanized areas is growing at more than
twice the national rate of 1.5% increase per annum net of emigration. In 1960,
KMA had 376,500 inhabitants or 23% of the national population. If the trend
of the past ten years were projected to 1990, the population of KMA would
reach 914,000, or 35% of the projected national population of approximately
2,700,000. Spanish Town, 12 miles from Kingston and separated by an agricul-
tural green belt, will be growing at an even faster rate. The resulting popu-
lation pressures in this urbanized region will magnify an already serious low-
cost housing shortage.



2.03      Although data are scarce and unreliable, it has been estimated that
the existing housing stock in Jamaica is 434,000 units. Of these, 130,000
units were located in the KMA in 1970, of which 90,000 were occupied by low-
income households; 40,000 of these were considered to be sub-standard without
any precise definition of that category. The analysis in a recent AID lending
operation concluded tentatively that the urban housing stock in Jamaica would
deteriorate further unless urban housing was increased by 7,600 units per
annum, 5,000 for new households and 2,600 replacement units. In estimating
the range of low-income housing needs for Kingston and the next three largest
cities, the Bank applied five variables described in Annex 1, Table 6.
The results show the renewal rate to be the most sensitive factor. The range
of housing requirements per annum for each city is:
Low-Income Housing Requirements Per Annum
Kingston              4,900 - 3,000 houses per annum
Spanish Town          1,350 -   620
Montego Bay              720 -   380
May Pen                 480 -   230
2.04      Even more critical than the housing shortage is Kingston's 25% rate
of unemplovment. The emplovment survey of April 1972 shows 609,000 persons
emnloyed out of Jamaica's labor force of 713,000. Despite a 5.5% annual growth
in real outptit during the past two decades, the average annual growth in
emtloyment has been only one-third of the average increase in unemployment.
Though primarily due to stagnation in the agricultural sector, this is reflec-
ted in urban unemplovment in Jamaica, which is concentrated among females,
the young and the unskilled. Nearly 45% of the persons aged 14-24 in Jamaica
are unemploved; this represents about one-half of the total unemployment. An
extensive discussion of the structure and causes of unemployment in Jamaica is
contained in the recent Economic Report.
2.05      The private sector accounts for over 90% of employment in Jamaica.
However, Government policies have caused factor price distortions and
discouraged emoloyment generation. In particular, tax incentives have
favored capital-intensive investments and an overvalued exchange rate has
made the importation of capital equipment and intermediary goods relatively
cheap. The Industrial Incentives Law seems to have attracted undifferentiated
capital-intensive industry (investment costs per job created were US$9,000 in
1971) and has been applied in a way of favoring oligopolies and consequent
high prices.
2.06      Although 1,200 new jobs are created annually in manufacturing in
the KWA, these are insufficient in absolute terms to reduce unemployment.
Furthermore, the employment pattern of low-income communities shows less than
15% of the economicallv active ponulation to be in manufacturing and over 50%
in "informal sectors", i.e., domestic services, own-account workers and street
vending (known collo.IIIially as "higgling" and "scuffling"). According to two
alternative growth patterns for population and the economy, the unskilled
portion is expected to remain at 66-70% of the total labor force.



-3-
B.  Urban Planning
2.07      National. ministries and autonomous entities dominate ,he public
investment picture in Kingston. The municipal authority, the KSAC, 1/ has
not been deeply involved in urban planning and does not perform very well in
the provision of basic city services, e.g., street cleaning and maintenance,
garbage collection, fire protection and city welfare programs. It administers
tht Building Code and has final approval authority in issuing building permits
for both commercial and residential structures. KSAC should play a leading.
role in urban affairs but has been kept weak and inactive.
2.08      Although responsibility for planning and controlling growth in KMA
is formally vested in the Town Planning Authority, KSAC and the Ministry of
Local Government to which the twelve Parish Councils and the KSAC report, the
most important bodies are the Ministry of Mines and Natural Resources and the
Urban Pevelopment Corporation (UDC), a statutory body which reports directly
to the Minister of Mines and Natural Resources. UDC is the most effective
agency involved in urban planning and implementation due to the quality of its
management and staff and also to the fact that it is backed by strong govern-
mental and private interests. However, UDC's investment program thus far has
tended to exacerbate the problems of the urban poor rather than provide an
affordable housing solution. Although the Parish Councils and KSAC are desig-
nated by law as local planning authorities, their lack of qualified staff and
the political realities of the situation generally preclude them from effec-
tively exercising their planning roles.
2.09      The Town Planning Authority (also responsible to the Ministry of
Mines and Natural Resources) examines plans from the physical viewpoint and
makes no judgment on the socio-economic soundness of development proposals.
From 1967-1971, the UNDP provided technical assistance to the Town Planning
Division for the formulation of a National Plan. 2/ Prepared under the pre-
vious Government, this plan, which has never been adopted by the new Govern-
ment, contains little economic analysis or investment staging. 3/ There
remains an urgent need to analyze and coordinate the diverse investment
programs of the major agencies influencing urban growth in the Kingston Metro-
politan Area (see Annex 1, paras. 19 through 33 for details on particular
agencies).
1/   The Kingston-St. Andrews Corporation is a body covering the two parishes,
Kingston and St. Andrews. About 75% of the metropolitan population lives
in St. Andrews, 20% in Kingston and about 5% in St. Catherine Parish.
2/   Town Planning Division, A National Physical Plan for Jamaica, 1970-1990
UTnited Nations' Special Fund Project Assistance in Physical Development
Planning in two volumes, 1971, supported by 30 background papers and
in-depth studies.
3!   The Kingston Regional Plan, wnich is one of the in-depth studies, is
possibly the most useful. in this regard.



-4-
2.10      The National Planning Agency (formerly Economic Planning Unit),
created in mid-1972 by Government to function within the Prime Minister's
Office, is establishing a group to undertake urban planning. It will draw
upon the physical planning completed to date and on inputs from relevant
ministries and agencies. The Ban' project includes a technical assistance
component for an Urban Growth and Management Study, the prime responsibility
for this residing with NPA. The study would analyze the priorities for
investment within the KIMA, taking into account available fiscal resources,
particularly those projected from the improved property tax regime with which
the vroiect has been closely associated (see Annex 6). The Bank will finance
54% oi cne costs of expatriate or Jamaican consultants.  The funds could also
be used for overseas training of NPA or other agency officials. Objectives
of the study, agreed during negotiations (para. 6.01), are:
(a)  a capital development budget for all urban sectors for the
period 1976-1980, particularly water, sewerage, transport,
housing, education and health;
(b) coordination of the programming of infrastructure investments;
(c) linking private sector development more closely to Government
priorities;
(d) improving city management and services; and
(e) examining institutional responsibilities for urban develop-
ment and making recommendations for improvement.
2.11      The Steering Committee for the Study will be the Physical Resources
Development Committee (PRDC). This body was created as part of the new plan-
ning process which came into being after the formation of the NPA. The PRDC
is charged with the responsibility for developing, through its represented
organizations, a national physical resources development plan as part of the
national economic development plan. Because the Comilttee is a sub-committee
of the Economic Council (chaired by the Minister of Mines and Natural Resources
with a Technical Secretary from the National Planning Agency), it is the
appropriate vehicle for coordinating the economic and physical planning
required for Kingston and securing the cooperation of the multiple authorities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives, Description of Project and Design Standards
3.01      The Sites and Services Project is designed to bring housing, essen-
tial community services and job opportunities to Jamaica's lower income groups
to the maximum extent possible. Though the project does not meet the backlog
or replacement requirements, _z is the maximum sized first project that can be
undertaken In view oi" the implementation constraints. If executed well by



- 5 -
the special unit created for this purpose, it should demonstrate a nractical
and more desirable alternative to existing low-cost housing programs in
Jamaica because the project has been designed on the basis of what iow-income
households can afford. Together with supporting diagnostic studies, training
and technical assistance, the project should lead to institutional reforms
that will provide the executing capability for a long-term program.
3.02      The proposed project consists of:
(a) approximately 6,000 serviced lots located as follows:
(i) 3,940 in Kingston-St. Andrews (population 550,000);
(ii) the remainder in Jamaica's comparatively small
secondary cities:
a) 660 in Montego Bay;
b) 560 in Spanish Town; and
c) 840 in May Pen.
(b) related infrastructure and community facilities (125
primary school classrooms, 14 day-care centers/basic
schools, 8 health centers, 12 community centers, 5 trade
schools, 9 police posts and 7 market sheds);
(c) core units for individual water, sewerage and electricity
services, offering three different starting points for
self-help construction (see Figure 1);
(d) a construction materials fund financed out of lot downpayments
to induce self-help house extensions;
(e) upgrading of two existing squatter areas in Kingston and
one in Montego Bay which would affect about 2,750 house-
holds;
(f) industrial financing for small- to medium-scale industries
(e.g., garments, leather goods, ceramics, toys) which will
create additional employment at a low-cost per job ratio,
including supporting consultancy services;
(g) a diagnostic study aimed at reorganization of the Ministry
of Housing and reformulation of its long-term housing
program;
(h)  an Urban Growth and Management Study; and
Ci)  consultant services for detailed engineering, training
for staff executing the project and involved in planning
future investment programs, as well as monitoring of the
project by the Institute for Social and Economic Research
at the University of the West Indies.



JAMAICA - SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                             F          1
LOT DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS
Standpipe /
Gully basin         s           --Shower pipe
Manhole_-W_* l
SParty wall
Panel board      COSTS                       A
Electric wire     Services and
Connections              490
Option I (40% of lots)                                                                            Materials for
Lot Services and                                                                                    Core Shelter
Materials for Core                                                                                  and Enclosu.e            620
Shelter & Enclosure                                                                                      Total               1,110
l i            |  E ~~~~Sevver
…-Li11~'__-=~~  Water
Core
Tiet
Shower-J                                       Services and
V O/Y                         Connections              490
Option 11 (40% of lots)                         Kitchen space                                     Core                        380
// ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mstitrials for
Lot Services, Built                                                                                 Shelter and
Core and Materials                                                                                  Enclosure                490
For Shelter and                                                                                     E
Enclosure                                                                                                Total              1,360
Core
Services and
Option III 120% of lots)                                                                            Connections              490
Core                       380
Lot Services, Bult                                                                               Shelter                    620
Core and Shelter and                                                                              Materials for
Materials for                                                                                       Enclosure                250
Enclosure                                            /  45==t                                           Total              1,740
Shelter
L~~~~~~~~~~~
World Bank-7966)2R)
/1 These three options will be offered during the first year's construct,ion pro-
gram.  In the second year, Option III will be elirtinated and in the third yenr
Option II will be eliminated. This will increase the self-help components and
reduce costs as experience is gained in self-help construction techniques.



7
3.03      The sites are extremely well chosen from the critical viewpoints of
employment and transport linkages (including walking to work from several
sites such as Marcus Garvey and Prison Farms); existing and planned infrast-
ructure; and price of land (as well as availability in the case of inter-
Governmental transfer).  Site characteristics for the first-year sites are
given in Table 2 of Annex 3.   In addition to the thorough qualitative analysis
undertaken in site selection, a quantitative economic analysis was carried
out (Annex 7) to make certain that the sites were acceptable considering
the opportunity cost of land.
3.04      Annex 3 describes the site plans for two of the first-year loca-
tions - Marcus Garvey in Kingston and Spanish Town (Prison Farmlands). Land
use variances among the six project locations depend upon the availability
of facilities in neighboring areas. Annexes 3 and 4 elaborate on the design
standards. Densities are fairly high (460 persons per ha) because of the
small lots (1,008 sq ft or 94 m2) 1/ which the Bank and government planners
judge to be appropriate in the Jamaican context of a small island with scarce
land resources. The lot sizes in the secondary cities, Montego Bay and May
Pen, will be 10 to 20% larger than the Kingston sites. Preliminary designs
for the Montego Bay, May Pen and Hunts Bay sites show land use ratios similar
to those for the Marcus Garvey, Camplands and Spanish Town sites. Figure 1
of Annex 3 shows two of five proposed plans for a house to be built through
self-help.
3.05      All lots will have individual water, sewerage and electricity
connections. Various surveys of low-incomie communities conducted by the
Ministry of Housing and by independent sociologists confirm that individual
water, sewerage and electricity connections for the project is the minimum
acceptable solution. 2/ Lots will be allocated on a 40-year renewable lease
basis to families earning less than J$ 1,500 per annum (estimated between the
50th and 60th percentiles on the urban income distribution curve). Mortgages
will be calculated on the basis of actual construction costs attributable to
each lot plus the cost of materials for completing the core unit. Approxi-
mately 25 percent of the lots will be charged a premium of J$ 200 each, based
on locational advantage, which will be added to the principal amount of the
mortgage. Approximately 25 percent of lots shall be allocated to families
earning less than J$ 900 per annum (about the 33rd percentile). The principal
amount of the mortgage applicable to these lots shall be reduced by J$ 200.
Such cross-subsidization will facilitate reaching the lower income families
(down to about the 25th percentile) while keeping the project as fully self-
financing as possible.
1/   For comparison with previous Bank-approved sites and services projects,
the lot size in Senegal is 150 m2 and in Nicragua is 110 m2.
2/   Individual pit latrines are not technically feasible because of difficult
groundwater conditions and the high likelihood of contamination in the
fairly small lots. Communal sanitary facilities are not recommended for
this project. Experience in Jamaica has shown that households are reluc-
tant to use communal facilities from the outset and that such facilities
rapidly become unhygienic.



-8-
3.06      Allottees will make a minimum downpayment of J$ 150 and take out
mortgages at 8% with a maximum term of 25 years. Downpayments shall be paid
into the Jamaica Cooperative Credit Union League, as agent for the Borrower,
to be used for a revolving fund for construction materials loans to allottees
for additions to their core units. These funds will be used by the League
until the revenue generated is sufficient to cover the League's costs of
administering the materials loans and mortgage payment collections. The
funds wqill then be transferred to Government.
3.07      Allottees will be eligible to receive materials loans for self-help
extensions of up to J$ 400 each, to be repaid over 4 years at an interest
rate of 1% per month on the outstanding balance or such other rate as the
Government and the Bank might mutually agree. Allottees who borrow from
the construction materials fund may obtain a grace period on their mortgages
equivalent to the duration of the construction materials loan (not exceeding
4 years). The grace period would not apply to premium lots. Interest fore-
gone during the grace period would be capitalized into the mortgage. The
terms described in paras. 3.05 through 3.07 derive from Jamaican proposals
during negotiations and should effectively promote a rapid rate of housing
consolidation--a prime objective of the project--while keeping payments by
low-income households within acceptable limits.
3.03      Detailed terms and conditions of leases will be agreed between
Governmlent and the Bank at the time of lot allocations. The leases will be
inheritable and alienable, except that during the first ten years of the lease
the Government shall have the right to determine the terms and conditions
upon which the lease may be transferred. This approach will enable Government
to assure that self-help housing reaches the intended income levels, while at
the same time permitting households who wish to realize the benefits of effec-
tive consolidation the opportunity to sell their leasehold interest after a
ten-year period. The gap between supply and demand for housing for low-income
families should be narrowed by then.
3.09      The designs for the community facilities (see listing of facilities
for first-year sites, Annex 3) conform to standards used by the Ministry of
Education for the construction of primary schools, the Ministry of Health for
the construction of neighborhood health centers and the Ministry of Youth
and Community Development. Nevertheless, modifications to the ministerial
standards have been made, gearing the facilities to the needs of low-income
communities. The basic schools and community meeting halls will doubleshift
as dav-care centers. Small buildings to serve as trade training centers will
be constructed on the Marcus Garvey and Spanish Town sites adjacent to the
on-site industrial estates.  A special youth center will be constructed on the
Spanish Town site which will serve the project households as well as neighboring
communities. The same principle will apply to the project's health clinics and
trade training centers. The community facilities are essentially locational
decisions, rather than additional facilities. The concerned ministries have
agreed that the Government counterpart funds come out of their next three fiscal
budgets and have also agreed to equip and staff the facilities adequately.



n 
B. Squatter Upgrading
3.10      The squatter upgrading component of the project will bring basic
services to three areas where low-income families are already living. Two of
the areas (Cockburn Pen and Drewsland) are located in West Kingston (see Map
10606) and the third (Canterbury or North Gulley) begins 1/2 mile south of
the Montego Bay town center (Map 10607). In selecting these areas for up-
grading, the following criteria were used:
(a) the areas are viable and no compelling reasons exist for
relocation;                              I
(b) it is economically and technically feasible to put in the
requisite services;
(c) the areas are not located in such a manner as to make it a
hazard to the health and safety of the occupants and the
general public; and
(d) the areas fit into the overall growth plans for Kingston and
Montego Bay.
3.11      Data from socio-economic sample surveys made for each of the three
areas mentioned above showed weekly household incomes (J$ 12-15) to be 20-30%
higher 1/ than the Government accounts show and household sizes to be larger 2/
than the norm for this in. me level.  There are about 2,750 households resi-
ding in these three areas comprised of:
Number of           Average         Number of
Households       Household Size      Persons
1.   Cockburn Pen, West Kingston        31n               5.5           1,700
2.   Drewsland, West Kingston         1,400               5.0           7,rDO
3.   Canterbury, Tontego Bay          1,040               5.3           5,500
Total                  2,750                            14,200
3.1?      Squatting in these areas mav take the form of sub-letting without
authorization or land invasions and seizures.  In Jamaica, the latter predomi-
nantlv occurs on government-ovmed land. Whatever the manner of squatting,
provision of lbacic services is still required. The Cockburn Pen area of 20
acres is owred hy the Miristry of Hlousing. The terrain is good as is the
configuration (fairlv square). Drewsland on the other hand is a linear strip
stretching for nearly 1-1/2 miles along the gulley.  Government owns the land
1/   As a result of  -venues from illicit or unaccounted for merchandising,
and rents derive6 from sub-letting single rooms.
2/   Many households have one or two non-family members.



- 10-
adjacent to the gulley where most of the squatting occurs; the rest is on land
leased by private owners. Government's policy is to permit continued occupancy
of these upgraded areas.
3.13      The services to be provided in Cockburn Pen and Drewsland include
paving of roads and footpaths following standards similar to the sites and
services component, e.g. storm water drainage, individual water connections,
lighting and improved roads.  The Kingston Water Commission, in accordance
with its normal practice, will install water meters on the house connections
and apply the, present rate structure. In view of the low water consumption
of the people in the upgraded areas, a modification in the rate structure
and service charges is being proposed to the Kingston Water Commission to
ensure that they are not overcharged in relation to their consumption. In-
stallation of sewage collection and linkage to the Kingston sewer system is
not included because of anticipated high costs, due to the site locations and
the random distribution of the houses. Individual sewage pits will be con-
structed instead. Loans of up to J$ 150 per household for the construction
of sewage pits or other improvements will be provided. The permeability of
the soil for sewage pits is considered adequate and is being verified by in-
filtration tests at the sites. The housing in the areas adjacent to these
sites has a similar random distribution, is provided with individual water
connections and disposes of the sewage in pits.  In the limited areas pro-
posed for upgrading, pit latrines would not threaten the quality of water
supply, as would be the case if several thousand lot utilized pit latrines
in a high density area.
3.14      The Canterbury location runs along a steep and difficult section
of Montego Bay.  The Parish Council will be providing additional standpipes.
The upgrading portion of the project for this area will repair the existing
access bridge and provide required community facilities--basic school and
community center.  The Ministry of Youth and Community Development will build
a sportsground, adjacent to Canterbury, out of funds from its general budget.
3.15      While there are other areas which might be upgraded in the future,
such as 'Wareika in East Kingston, for the most part they fail to meet the
basic criteria outlined above. Government is reluctant to embark on extensive
upgrading because of concern for induced squatting in unviable areas. Never-
theless, the Sites and Services Unit will continue to identify such areas,
survey the existing services and prepare an upgrading program to complement
the national Sites and Services program.
C. Industries
3.16      The small to meditum industries component of the Project is designed
to link emplovment with low-cost housing. It will provide training and Jobs
to a currently idle labor force and nelp stabilize the newly created communi-
ties. A number of enterprises (between ten and twenty, depending on separate



- 11 -
feasibility studies) will be launched over a three-year period, creating
about 1,000 new jobs. Besides satisfying the usual feasibility criteria
(economic, financial and technical), the sub-projects will aim at high
labor-intensiveness: low investment per job created (approximately
J$ 3,000 to J$ 5,000), low level of required skills and short training
periods. The first few sub-projects so far been identified (para 3.29) have
the required characteristics. Furthermore, since statistics show unemployment
to be highest among persons between the ages of 15 and 24, and particularly
uomen, it was decided to bias employment towards young women and to simul-
taneously provide day-care facilities for their children.
3.17      The industries component is a three-faceted package:
(a) Technological Transfer- througb the Industrial Development
Corporation (JIDC), a government institution which is staffed
with specialists in management, market analysis, product
promotion, factory layout and building, equipment and training.
The institution has offices in Kingston and abroad, gives
seminars and courses in the above fields, and is operating a
research center, a productivity center, and various training
schools. A more detailed description is given in Annex 5.
Within the framework of the proposed project, the JIDC will
identify small to medium scale industries, prepare feasibility
studies, and look for private entrepreneurs willing to in'rest
in the proposed industrial sub-projects and bring in managerial
expertise.
(b) Supervised Credit - through the Jamaican Development Bank (JDB),
also a government institution, which using its affiliate, the
Development Venture Capital Financing Company (DVCF) as its
agent, will appraise the individual sub-projects and arrange
for the necessary financing. A description of JDB is given in
Annex 5.
(c) Physical Infrastructure - on the proposed project sites where
land, labor, utilities, and common services will be available
to the entrepreneurs.
3.18      Manufacturing in Jamaica has expanded quite rapidly since 1962,
showing 1/ a real increase of about 6% a year. Total exports of manufactured
goods in 1972 were estimated at J$ 47 million (16% of all exports in that
year) and exports to the CARIFTA member countries, including British Honduras,
reached J$ 17 million. Such exports 2/ now represent 36% of total exports of
manufactured goods, with Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana as Jamaica's principal
nartners in this regional trade. The demand for financing small- to medium-
scale industries is also continually growing. Development of the total
1/   Excluding the sugar industry.
2/   Exports to CARTETA countries increased by 30% a year between 1969 (J$
7.6 million) and 1972.



- 12
portfolio of lending by all commercial banks for manufacturing in Jamaica 1/
has increased by 25. a year in the last six years, in comparison with the
JDB portfolio which rose at the rate of 28% per annum in the last three
years. They respectively reached J$ 77 million and J$ 10.2 million in 1972.
Through April 30, 1973, JDB had under active consideration 20 loan applica-
tions to finance industrial projects with a total cost estimated at J$ 3.9
million. Projected demand for credit is estimated at a 20% annual increase.
3.19      These trends indicate a dynamic expansion of the manufacturing
sector. However, new or expanding industries do not necessarily match the
country's economic priorities considering, in particular, the high level of
unemployment. Recognizing this, the Government has recently entrusted the
JDB with more vigorously assisting small-scale, labor-intensive industries.
To that effect, JDB created a subsidiary, the DVCF, to focus on the specific
problems of small enterprises and assist them financially through either loans
or equity participation. The DVCF started operations in August 1973. Given
the generally favorable environment for small-scale industry, the initial
encouraging reaction from Jamaican private entrepreneurs, and the possibilities
presented by the first few sub-projects identified, it is reasonable to expect
that the sub-projects for this component of the project will be forthcoming.
3.20      It will be the JIDC's responsibility to identify economically sound
projects and to prepare--in collaboration with private investors--feasibility
studies.  In order to ensure sufficient staff capability, it will assign three
full-time professionals to this job and will provide other technical services
or facilities (such as training), as needed. It will be the DVCF's function,
acting as the agent of the JDB and under the latter's supervision and final
responsibility, to appraise the proposed sub-projects and, in particular, to
evaluate the qualifications of the applying entrepreneur. DVCF will focus
on the following aspects of sub-projects: (i) managerial capability, (ii)
narket, (iii) project cost estimates, (iv) financial viability, and (v)
economic justification (including labor-intensiveness and effective rate of
protection). An experienced consultant will be hired for a period of one
year (renewable for a second year) to assist DVCF in launching this program.
3.21     J3R recentlv received a US$10 million loan from the Inter-American
Development Bank's (IDB) Ordinary Capital Sources and Fund for Special
Operations, which will cover JDB's normal resource requirements for the near
term. Nevertheless, JDB and the Bank consider it desirable that Bank funds
be provided for the industries component because of the inter-relationship
in the provision of housing and employment to the same beneficiaries and so
that the types of sub-project and their scope are suitable and their prepa-
ration timed so as to serve the objectives of the project. IDB had no
objection to the Bank financing the industries component.
3.22      Land for the sub-proiects will be rented from the Government on the
basis of the land's fair commercial value. Factories will be built by the
JITC and sold back to the enterprise. Seventy-five percent of the factory
cost will be repaid in cash by the e-terprise and the remaining 25% will be
paid in the form of shares in the enterprise.
1/   Excluding the sugar industry.



- 13 -
3.23      The selected private partner will own a minimum of 51% of the
equity.  The remaining equity capital will be initially owned by the JDB and
the JIDC and eventually may be resold to third parties. In this eventuality,
prior option will be given to the private partner but, in appropriate cases,
provision will be made for the worker participation. The debt/equity ratio
will not exceed 60/40 and should approach 50/50 if found necessary to ensure
a particular sub-project's financial viability.
3.24      It is estimated that total expenditures would be about J$ 3,500,000
(including working capital) with a 45% foreign exchange component, or about
J$ 1,575,000 (US$1,750,000). The foreign exchange component includes all
equipment purchases and about 30% of factory costs; but, in order to facili-
tate disbursement, it has been agreed that Bank fund would be used to reim-
burse 75% of all local or foreign fixed assets expenditures representing
about 50% of total expenditures including working capital costs. Bank funds
for the industries component (J$ 1.75 million or US$1.9 million) would be
onlent by the Government to the JDB with whom the Bank already has experience.
The Government is prepared to bear the foreign exchange risk for which it
would charge a fee of 1% per annum.
3.25      The sub-loans will bear an interest rate set initially at the same
level as the prevailing prime rate in Jamaica at the time the sub-loan is
made--provided, however, that the prime rate shall not be less than two per-
centage points above the central bank rate set by the Bank of Jamaica. At
the end of the period of grace for each sub-loan, the interest rate will be
increased by two percentage points and will remain at that level until the
sub-loan has been repaid.
3.26      There would be a maximum of three-year's grace on sub-loans and
amortization of sub-loans should not, unless the Bank otherwise agrees,
exceed 15 years. As in the case of DFC-type operations, there will be no
roll-over of sub-loan accounts. The amortization of the loan frorm the
Government to the 4DB will be based on the composite amortization of the
sub-loans to the small enterprises and should therefore not exceed 15 years.
3.27      In addition to sub-loans and equity payments (which will cover
most working capital requirements), JDB will provide the private enterprise
with complementary loan financing, as needed, for remaining equipment
expenditure (including installation) and working capital. On the basis of
estimates derived from the first feasibility studies, it is estimated that
JIDC's overall financial contribution (to be ultimately recovered) to the
proposed program would range from J$ 150,000 to J$ 200,000; that comple-
mentary loans by JDB would be of the order of J$ 500,000, and that JDB's
equity participation would not exceed a maximum of J$ 500,000.
3.28      Appraisal reports for the first five sub-projects and for all others
where the total sub-loan exceeds J$ 250,000 (US$275,000) will be submitted
to the Bank and prior approval will be required before a sub-loan is made.
Bidding is not expected for the purchase of equipment, as is usually the case
in DFC operations; however, domestic tenders for factory buildings will be
required in accordance with JIDC's usual procedures.



- 14 -
3.29       Proposed sub-projects include the manufacturing of inexpensive
boys' clothes, fashion knits, dressed dolls, leather wallets and purses,
ceramics and toys.
D. Cost Estimates
3.30       The cost estirmates are based on detailed engineering and design for
the Marcus Garvey, Camplands and Spanish Town sites and preliminary engineer-
ing for the Hunts Bav, May Pen and Montego Bay sites. Total project costs are
estimated at J$ 31.7 million including contingencies and J$4.4 million for land.
The main categories of cost are summarized below; summary cost estimates for
each location are shown in Annex 4, Table 1.
% FOIGN
ITEK                   LOCAL  FOREION  TOTAL     LOCAL   FOREIGN  TOTAL     EXVHANCZ
(J$000)                   (J$'000)
Bank/Oov't Financed
1. Infrastructure      3,855   1,285   5,140     4,240   1,414    5,654       25
2. Ccssunity Facilities    3,045    1,015   4,060  3,350.   1,116   4,466     25
3. Lot Development     4,545    1,515   6,060    5,000   1,665   6,665        25
4. Industries          1,950    1,600   3,550     2,145   1,760   3,905       45
5. Technical Assistance  545     565   1,110       600     620   1,220        50
6. Contingencies
Physical (approx. 1I%)  1,595  530   2,125   1,755     583.   2,338       25
Price escalation
(approx. 23%)  2,605  870   3,475     2,865     957   3,822        25
Sub-total   18,140   7,380   25,520    19,955    8,115   28,070
Governnent Financed
7. Land Costs          4,440     -     4,440     4,885     -      4,885        o
8. Materials i'und     1,750     -      1,750    1,925     -      1,925        0
Sub-total    6,190     -      6,i90     6,810     -     6,810
TOTAL        2.3      7.380   "1710    26             X&.680        23
Since the foreign exchange component of the project is small, it is proposed
that the Bank loan amount to the equivalent of 50% of the total project cost
excluding land.  The loan would finance 54% of the total infrastructure, com-
mtinitv facilities, lot development and technical assistance costs.and 75% of
the industries capital cost excluding working capital. The Bank loan would
amount to .J$ 13.6 million or US$15.1 million.



- 15 -
3.31      About J$ 3.2 million of the land costs represent the opportunity
costs after valuing the various locations at their highest and best alternative
use. The land values were arrived at after detailed discussions with the
Commissioner of Lands, Government planning officials and real estate deve-
lopers. The values obtained yield an average land value of about J$ 17,000
per acre with a rangd of J$ 4,000-26,000 per acre. Of the total J$ 4.4 million
land valuation, only J$ 1.1 million is being purchased, the rest having been
acquired by the Ministry of Housing by means of inter-governmental transfers.
3.32      The breakdown of the infrastructure components (landfill, roads,
water, sewerage and drainage) by location is shown in Tables 2, 3 and 4 of
Annex 4. These cost estimates, which are based on detailed engineering,
yield cost/lot ranging from J$ 790 to J$ 920 with variances caused by dif-
fering site location and characteristics, e.g., landfill requirements at
the Marcus Garvey site. The cost breakdown of infrastructure components
(by type: streets, water, sewerage, and drainage) for the Marcus G.arvey
site is shown in Annex 4, Table 5. The cost of power distribution is not
included in the project because the Jamaica Public Service Company has agreed
to finance this and recover the costs in the utility rates, which is their
normal practice.
3.33      Lot costs in the first year for the three development options are
shown below:
Lot Development Costs
(in Jamaican Dollars)
First       Second       Third
Service      Service    Service
Level        Level       Level
Basic Services and Connections /1    490             490         490
Built Sanitary Core /1                   -           380         380
Built Shelter Room /1                   _              -         620
Sub-total                        490           870      1,490
Materials required for Self-Hielp
completion of:
(a)  Sanitary core unit             130             -          -
(b)  Shelter Room                   240           240          -
(c)  Enclosure                      250           250        250
TOTAT,                         1-11)        1,360      1,740
/1   Includes labor and materials costs.



16 -
3.34      All infrastructure and lot development costs take into account the
two devaluations experienced in Jamaica in the last year and a 25% labor
increase negotiated in June 1973. The estimates also take into account a sub-
stantial wage increase expected in early 1975 and significant increases in the
cost of building materials since June 1973. The estimates provide for an overall
15% physical contingencies factor and 10', 25% and 40% price escalation factor
for the first, second and third year sites respectively. The project never-
theless represents a low7-cost solution at an appropriate level of services for
Jamaica. Jamaica's construction industry is high-priced. Unskilled labor cur-
rently earns a minimum of US$5.50 per day, productivity is comparatively low,
and construction materials are expensive due to oligopolistic practices and
supply bottlenecks. These factors have been compounded by Government's prac-
tice of negotiating rather than tendering contracts, as is also common in
the private sector, though Government is increasingly awarding contracts on
the basis of competitive bidding. Nevertheless, costs have been kept down
primarily by trimming design standards and increasing densities. The eva-
luated design and cost levels are less than one-third the cost of normal
built low-cost housing in Jamaica (comparable housing until mid-1973 ranging
from J$ 4,50.0 to J$ 7,000).
E. Procurement and Disbursement
3.35      In executing the three-year sites and services program, contracts
will be tendered in stages according to the six project locations in the four
towns. The upgrading component will be included in the first year's contract
tendering. An expected six to eight contracts varying between US$1.0 and
4.0 million each will cover civil works, core unit construction, and commu-
nity facilities. Firms will be able to bid on one or more of several locations
as they are tendered and the lowest combination of bids will be selected.
Government has agreed to international competitive bidding (ICB) by means of
advertisement in local newspapers and notification to embassies. Draft tender
documents and specifications for the first location (Camplands) have been
reviewed and are being revised. Construction could begin in June 1974.
In view of the priority of the project, particularly the need to create employ-
ment and begin on Kingston's crLtical low-cost housing needs, retroactive
financing of up to US$500,000 is recommended.
3.36      Disbursements will be for 54% of total costs of infrastructure, lot
development, community facilities, detailed engineering and technical assist-
ance, which include training and monitoring. Approximately 50% of the con-
struction costs will be for labor; less than 25% will be foreign exchange
expenditures. Disbursements for the industries component will be for 75% of
total capital expenditures, excluding xworking capital. The project should be
fuilly executed by December 1977, although families wIll still be consolidat-
ing their housing for an estimated two years thereafter. Any undisbursed
funds at the closing date of Decerber 31, 1978 will be cancelled unless the
Bank agrees to their use for additioral serviced lots. The implementation
and disbursement schedules ar& show ir Annex 4, Figure I and Table 8 res-
pectively.



- 17 -
IV.  ORGANIZATION, MANAGFMENT, AND PROJECT FINANCING
A. Executing Agency
4.01      The Borrower will be the Government of Jamaica.  The executing
agency for the overall project will be the Ministry of Housing which has
established a special Sites and Services Unit in consultation with the Bank.
The small industry components will be executed by the Jamaica Development
Bank (JDB) and its affiliated Development Venture Capital Financing Company
in close collaboration with the Jamaica Industrial Development Corporation
(JIDC).
4.02      An ad hoc Sites and Services Planning Unit was set up within the
Ministry in September 1972 to prepare the project (see Organization Chart in
Annex 2). This was facilitated and assisted by three Bank preparation missions.
Most of the detailed design and engineering on two of the first-year sites
('Marcus Carvey and Spanish Town) were completed in-house; the engineering for
Caamplands was subcontracted to an association of consulting firms frovm the
United Fingdom and Jamaica but had to be revised in-house. The rer.aining
sites in the second and third-year programs are being designed/engineered by
the Sites and Services Unit with some subcontracting anticipated and which
would be eligible for financing under the project.
4.03      Despite the excellent preparatory work done by the ad hoc group,
for project execution it is essential that the staff be expanded and its
relationship to the Ministry formalized. The Director of the Unit will be
equal in rank to the Under Secretary of Housing and will liaise closely with
the Minister. Staffing and responsibilities (see Anrex 2) have been re-
viewed and the Director of the Unit has been appointed in consultation with
the Bank (para. 6.01). Training requirements for the expanded staff will be
financed under the Project. The J$ 80,000 provided for this purpose would
be utilized to bring in short-term experts as needed and to train three or
four staff members, involved in project execution or planning, for up to one
year each.
4.04      Emphasis throughout project preparation was placed on the critical
role of management and the coordination of many components (housing, employ-
ment, education, health and community organization) to assure the project's
success. The staff of the Sites and Services Unit has been designed to
provide the skills to satisfy these technical and social, as well as operating
and maintenance requirements. Furthermore, an overall Sites and Services
Coordinating Committee will be permanently established to maintain the inter-
agency linkages that were established informally during preparation (para.
6.01). The Committee will include representatives from: The Ministry of
Housing, the Ministry of Finance, the National Planning Agency, JDB, JIDC,
the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Youth
and Community Development's Social Development Commission. This should assure
sound project execution and fulfillment of the recurrent budgetary require-
ments for staffing the project's community facilities. It should also provide
the basis for developing an on-going sites and services program.



- 18 -
4.05      The operations of the new Unit are divided into:  planning and
development, construction supervision, and property management. The planning
and development section will continue the emphasis given throughout project
preparation on social and organizational aspects. The construction supervision
function will aim at providing technical advice to householders for self-help
consolidation as well as supervising construction of the infrastructure and
core units to be done by private contractors. A series of approximately five
design kits for alternative methods of extending the houses is being prepared.
It is vital that early consolidation takes place to secure the economic
benefits of the project; it is equally important that the type of extension
be attractive and fit into the high expectations that Jamaicans have for
housing so that this first sites and services effort will maintain sufficient
political support to become a long-term program.
4.06      In addition to the central staff, each project location will have
a resident building technician and a social worker once the beneficiaries take
possession in order to maximize technical assistance. Because the level of
services provided for low-income households in Kingston is generally inade-
quate, an integral part of the project will be programs for maintenance,
internal garbage collection, care of public space and preventive maintenance.
IJouseholds Tw7ill paY a monthly charge estimated at J$1.00 for this service and
will have community control over maintenance personnel.
4.07      The selection of project beneficiaries will be made by the Project
Unit according to the following criteria:
(a) the household has an annual income not exceeding J$ 1,500;
(h) approximately 25%. of the households have annual income not
exceeding J$ 900; and
(c) preference will be given to those families already
residing in areas adjacent to the respective locations.
4.08      In the past, the process of allocating Government (heavily subsidized)
housing has been highly discriminatory. In order to avoid this, Government
intends minimizing political considerations by widely advertising the selection
criteria, selecting allottees who meet the criteria on a random basis and
publishing the full list of allottees in Jamaica's daily papers. The Minister
of Housing is expected to announce thls policy publicly and the attendant full
disclosure should assure equitable treatment.
4.09      The project will be monitored by highly qualified professionals
contracted for this purpose by the Institute of Social and Economic Research
at the University of the IJest Indies. The Institute is probably the most
competent organization for such research in the Caribbean. An US$80,000
grant is being made to the Institute by the Inter-American Foundation in
!4ashington to monitor this project and other low-cost housing efforts in
Jamaica. The total cost of monitoring program is estimated at J$ 300,000.
In Particular forms will be designed and sample surveys run during the next
three years to ascertain ex-post:



- 19 -
(a) how rapidly did households extend their houses with
additional rooms?
(b) what percentage of households found jobs in the small
industries financed under the project?
(c) what is their average monthly income derived from this
employment?
(d) what was the average household income at the end of the
three-year period? W4hat percentage goes into monthly house
and utilities payments?
(e) to what extent did households receive technical and other
assistance from the Sites and Services Unit?
(f) what is the default rate on repayments?
- mortgage payments?
- construction materials?
(g) where do households buy their construction materials and
are the materials they want readily available?
(h) to what extent are households satisfied with the community
aspects of the project? Do they utilize the schools and
clinics?
B. Reorganization of the Ministry of Housing
4.10      In addition to the specific arrangements for project execution, the
operations and structure of the Ministry of Housing need to be reorganized and
its long-term programs and policies reformulated. The Minister of Housing. has
requested technical assistance for this and terms of reference for this have
been agreed (para. 6.01). For a number of years, proposals to reorganize the
Ministry have been mooted. The Ministry's operations are highly subsidized
and for the most part are not effectively carrying out the low-cost housing
mandate contained in the 1968 Housing Act. Since the elections in February 1972,
the new Government has given strong support to low-cost housing, particularly
by making sites and services the core of its program. However, the other
parts of Government 's program need to be re-examined. After evaluation of
its various programs, consideration should be given to the number and type
of staff required to execute its long-term programs. Annex 2 depicts the
current organizational structure of the Ministry, evaluates its various pro-
grams, and analyzes its financial statements. It also makes reference to the
recently established National Housing Corporation which is expected to be a
middle-income, autonomous housing entity organized on a profit-making basis
with the profits eventually reverting to Government for use in low-cost
housing.



20 -
4.11      ?~1MR has a substantial program for low-cost housing units and mate-
rials supply administered under separate sections known as Stores and Workshop.
The value of the plant and equipment for these units is approximately J$ 0.5
million with estimated materials on hand of J$ 1.5 to J$ 2 million and a
permanent staff of approximately 150 people. The Stores purchase building
materials and housing components from the supply division of the Ministry of
Finance, which add 2.5% to the wholesale purchase price as a charge for hand-
ling; stores adds on an additional 7% fee. Despite the size of its operation
and the fact that more than 400 items are handled, there is no commercial
accounting in its operations.  The consultants reviewing MDR operations will
make design, production and materials handling recommendations and commercial
accounting procedures their first priority.
C. Financial Terms and Conditions
4.12      In Jamaica, capital investments in water supply are recovered in the
monthly user charges. Nevertheless, the practice prevails of charging mort-
gagors the costs of infrastructure installed by developers, in effect charging
twice for these capital investments. The same is true of sewerage, though an
upward rate adjustment is required which the Bank has been encouraging. The
Government has agreed that water, sewerage and electricity capital costs would
be excluded from mortgages since recovery is included in the monthly user
charges. About one-fourth of the remaining infrastructure costs for roads and
drainage will equitably be attributed to community facilities and other users
in the project areas. Applying these principles to the Camplands location
(455 lots), where favorable topography results in the lowest infrastructure
costs, this means a net infrastructure cost of J$ 235/lot to be financed in
the 25-year mortgage. When the full costs of the first service level (J$ 1,110)
are added to this and an average downpayment of J$ 200 is subtracted, a capital
investment of J$ 1,145 remains to be recovered, ex-land (discussed in para. 4.13
below). This will be repaid over 25 years at 8% by a monthly payment of approx-
imately J$ 8.80. 1/ Survey data show that low-income households in Jamaica pay
up to 25% of their income directly for housing, not including monthly utility
charges or home improvements carried out as materials are somehow located or
due to a brief windfall in household income. When these other housing expendi-
tures are included, low-income households are considered able to spend one-third
of income on total housing expenditures.
4.13      Estimated average plot charges and monthly payments for each year's
sites are shown in the following table. Monthly user charges for water, sewerage
and electricity would average approximately J$ 8.00. To this will be added
the monthly charge of J$ 1 per household for maintenance and garbage collection
1/ The mortgage interest rate will fluctuate in line with any change in the
prime rate (currently 11%); however, there will be no adjustment in the
interest rate once the individual mortgage agreement has been signed.



- 21 -
Table 1
AVERAGE LOT CHARGES AND MONTHLY PAYMENTS
(rounded in Jamaican Dollars)
site
No.                Item
First Year    Second Year      Third Year
i.     On-site infrastructure cost
per plot /1                             870           1,100          1,230
ii.    Assignable cost per plot  /1               680            880             980
iii.   Cost recovered through monthly
users charges (water, sewerage,
power)                                  380             490             55C
iv.    Net assignable cost per plot
(ii - iii)                              300             390            430
v.     Lot development cost /2                  1,110          1,275           1,480
vi.    Total plot costs (iv + v)                1,410          1,665           1,910
vii.   Lot cost minus down payment
(J$200) 13                            1,210           1,465          1,71C
viii.  Monthly plot payment                         9 9.50         11.40          13.30
ix.    Land charges  15                             2.00            2.00           2.00
x.     Garbage collection                           1.00            1.00           1.00
xi.    Utilities bill  /6                           8.00            8.00           8.00
xii.   Total monthly charges (viii +
ix + x + xi)                             20.50           22.40           24.30
xiii.  Monthly household income AI                 61.50           67.00          73.00
xiv.  Annual household income                     740.00         800.00          875.00
/1 Tables 2-4, Annex 4.
/2  Option I including materials for core, shelter and enclosure, see Figure 1.
/3  The minimum downpayment will be J$150; an average figure of J$200 is used.
/  Amount of vii amortized at 8% interest rate over 25 years.
/5 For the non-subsidized allottees (75% of lots), land charges (initially set at
J$2 per month) will be adjusted upwards at varying intervals to a maximum of
J$8 per month for the premium lots. The maximum land rental charges for the
subsidized portion will remain at J$2 per month.
/6 Assumed average monthly charges for low-income groups consisting of approxi-
mately J$3.0 each for water and power and J$2.0 for sewerage.
/7 Assuming families spend one-third of household income on housing and related
expenditures, including utilities.



- 22 -
and J$ 2.0 per month for land for the lowest income households (25% of the
lots) and an estimated average of J$ 4.0 for the remaining 75% of the lots.
Payments for optional materials loan for bedroom extension are not included
in the computations.  The total monthly payments for the cheapest lot develop-
ment option are approximately J$ 20, 22 and 24 for the first, second and third
year lots, respectively. Though this might strain the household budgets of
the lowest income allottees initially, it is realistic based on sample surveys
conducted by the Ministry of Housing. It also constitutes a higher level of
services for lowqer charges than are currently levied when double payment for
capital expenditures is factored out. Furthermore, it will be alleviated by
increases in household income for the lowest groups expected from the addi-
tio-al employment provided by the project.
4.14      Serviced lots will be offered on a renewable 40-year leasehold
basis with security of tenure and full compensation for any eventual Gov-
ernment retaking. The terms and financial conditions of the lease acceptable
to the Bank will be worked out prior to allotment. Leaseholds will be on an
owner-occupier basis; however, sub-letting of rooms will be permitted because
there are many single migrants into cities and this policy will provide supple-
mental household income permitting the project to reach down to the lowest
income levels. Should the owner decide to sell any time during the first ten
years of occupancy, Government has the right to determine the terms and condi-
tions upon which the lease may be transferred. During this ten year period,
the gap between supply and demand for housing for low-income groups should be
sufficiently narrowed so that project beneficiaries may realize any appreciatioi
in their leasehold interest.
4.15      After their concern for security of tenure, low-income households
in Jamaica consider access to building materials and credit availability as
their next most serious problem. It is also important that early and attrac-
tive self-help lhousing extension take place. It is estimated that two-thirds
of the 6,900 households would want material loans, the remainder having access
to other sources of funds or materials. Households would receive loans of up
to J$ 400 each and will be able to borrow the amount in different tranches on
short-term credit (up to 4 years) at 12% interest. The construction materials
fund for room extensions is in addition to materials for the core unit (in-
cluded in the households' mortgages), which has been adopted in order to
reduce costs by maximizing the self-help labor component.
4.16      The construction materials fund financed out of lot downpayments
will be managed by the Jamaica Cooperative Credit Union League which will
also be responsible for collecting the monthly payments for land and the
amortization of the mortgages on the infrastructure. The League is a non-
profit cooperative society with 124 member credit unions, over 50,000
individual members, and total savings of J$ 11.4 million. It has been
operating since 1942, is well managed and independently audited, and has
been doing similar lending for home improvements and repairs. The Ministry
of Rousing, by contrast, has a poor--though in 1973 improving--collection
record. W4ith sound financial management provided by the League, the proposed
project should overcome the administrative and financial obstacles in previous
low-cost houjsing projects in Jamaica.



- 23 -
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The economic justification for sites and services projects rests
primarily on two features:
(a)  the labor of family members who might be unemployed--at least
for part of a year--or underemployed is utilized in the self-
help house construction process;
(b)  with the utilization of this labor, houses are built which have
a value considerably in excess of the costs incurred. By capi-
talizing the rental values on the basis of market values
obtaining in Jamaica, the project yields a good rate of
return.
This has been the basic approach used in the two sites and services projects,
Senegal and Nicaragua, approved by the Board to date. The same approach is
taken here but expanded to attempt to measure benefits accruing to the economy
wider than Just housing rents generated (see Annex 7).
5.02      The internal rate of return for the project averages about 14.4%,
ranging from a low of 13.3% for the Marcus Garvey location to a high of 15.8%
for Prison Farm in Spanish Town. The principal factors causing these variances
arie land values and infrastructure costs. The benefits are split into house-
hold benefits and rest of economy benefits. Benefits flowing directly to
participating households are measured in terms of: (i) the imputed rental value
of the new housing (the primary measure of household benefits); (ii) increased
employment opportunities and earning ability brought about by improved public
services; and (iii) in some cases, economies in transport costs to and from
places of employment because of locational advantages. Benefits to the rest
of the economy stem from the judgment that the project will assist in the
reduction of the crime rate as well as a reduction in public health and child
welfare expenditures within the areas affected. Since the project will lead
to a net expansion of the housing stock for low-income households which will
reduce (or slow the rate of increase in) rents for low-income households,
there will be further minor benefits in the form of incremental consumer
sturplus. Sensitivity tests taking into account the divergence of market
values from social costs are given in Annex 7 (para. 13).
5.n3      Besides providing housing for 6,000 families, the sites and services
project will have a major employment impact in three respects:
(a)  the self-help aspect of house construction is progressively
increased in the second and third year stages of the project;
(b)  about half of the project construction costs will be
expenditures for labor; and
(c)  the small industries component is expected to create about
1,000 additional jobs to be taken up by the sites and services
beneficiaries.



- 24 -
The employment effect, moreover, will continue beyond completion of the
project as consolidation of the housing occurs either by self-help or by con-
tracting local workers. The comprehensive nature of the project, which in-
cludes schools, clinics and other community facilities--and where particular
attention has been given to project management and securing the cooperation
of all concerned agencies--will also provide a better physical and social
environment.
5.04      The project will have a substantial redistribution effect in favor
of low-income households by reducing the cost of housing services and due to
the fact that monthly payments by participating households for their new
housing units on a cost basis wiil be substantially lower than the value of
imputed rents based on market value for comparable housing. Income redistri-
bution by means of a labor-intensive sites and services effort and a reformu-
lated low-cost housing program is considered a more efficient method of
redistribution in Jamaica than public works programs heretofore.
VI. AGREEMENTS AN'D RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement has been reached with G:vernment regarding:
(a) terms and conditions of on-lending for the industries
component (para. 3.25) and for the lot mortgages (para. 4.12);
(b) establishment and staffing of a Sites and Services Unit within
the Ministry of Mousing and appointment of a Director in
consultation twith the Bank (para. 4.03);
(c) establishment of the Coordinating Committee including repre-
sentatives of all concerned ministries and agencies (para. 4.04);
(d) terms of reference of a diagnostic study of the Ministry of
Housing, its programs and operations (para. 4.10);
(e) basic objectives and staffing for an Urban Growth and
Management Study, including 5-year revenue projections
from the revised property tax as part of the resources
analysis (para. 2.10);
(f)  selection scheme for site and services occupants (para. 4.07);
(g)  equipping and staffing of the community facilities by the
concerned agencies, i.e., Ministry of Education, Ministry
of Health and Ministry of Youth and Community Development
(para. 3.09);
(h) continuing rights of occupancy in the upgraded souatter
arens (para. 3.12); and



- 25 -
(i) with regard to the small-scale industries component (paras.
3.16-3.29):
(i) adequate staffing of the Jamaica Industrial Development
Corporation unit in charge of identifying small-scale
industries, preparing feasibility studies and selecting
potential private entrepreneurs;
(ii) criteria to be applied by the Jamaica Development Bank
in appraising sub-projects;
(iii) terms and conditions of lending to the JDB and relending
to the small enterprise; and
(iv)  Bank approval of the first five sub-projects and for
all others where the sub-loan exceeds US$250,000.
A.r)?     The prolect is suitable for a Bank loan of USt15.0 million for a
period of 25 years, including a grace period of six years, except for the
indlustries component which would he repaid on the basis of the composite
amortization of the sub-loans.






AEX 1
Page 1
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
URBAN BACKGROUND
Urban Growth
1.        The 1970 census figures put the population of Jamaica at 1,861,300.
Approximately 35% of the population live in towns larger than 10,000
inhabitants; 28% of the total population is in the Kingston Metropolitan
Area (KMA -- see Map 2).  Table 1 shows population census figures for 1960
and 1970, and - assuming the same growth rates - population estimates for
1972 and 1980 for Jamaica and for the eleven cities and towns which, in
1960, had more than 4,000 inhabitants.
Table 1
Census Population Figures for 1960-70; Population Estimates for 1972-80
Annual      Cities and Towns of over         Annual
Year   Jamaica   Growth Rate   4,000 inhabitants in 1960    Grovth Rate
1960   1,609,000    1.46%                473,700
1970   1,861,300      .                  679,300
1972   1,916,000                         730,300
1980   2,157,000                         976,800
2.        Population census figures for 1960 and 1970, and population estimates
for 1972 and 1980 are shown in Table 2, for the four major cities.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Table 2
/1
Population Figures for the Four Major Cities '
Annual    Montego   Annual    Spanish    Annual                Annual
Year    KMA   Growth Rate   Bay   Growth Rate  Town    Growth Rate May Pen Growth Rate
1960   376,500   3.0%      23,600    6.14%      14,700     11.0%      14,100   6.4%
1970   506,200   3.0%      42,800               41,600     1.0%       26,200   4.0%
1972   536,100   229 46,300    4.00%            47,600      7.0%      28,300   40
1980   673,700             63,300               81,800                38.800
/1   Annual growth rates for the period 1960-70 are overstated because the
boundaries used in the 1970 census to define the four major cities are
broader than those used in the 1960 census. The annual growth rates
for the period 1970-1980 were estimated taking into consideration the
population growth within the boundaries defined for the 1960 census.
3.        In 1960, KMA (defined as including Kingston and most,of St. Andrews
Parish,and,a little of St. Catherine Parish but not Spanish Town - See Map
2) had 23% of the national population, and 16 times as many people as Montego
Bay, the second largest city. In 1970, KMA's population was 27% of the
national population, and was 12 times as large as Montego Bay. During the
period 1970-80,, population estimates presented in Table 2 indicate that the
primacy of KMA remains pronounced.
4.        KMA's population growth cannot be accurately separated into migra-
tion and natural growth because detailed tabulations for the 1970 population
are not available. However, migration into KKA during 1960-70 can be esti-
mated as shown in Table 3 below:
Table 3
Estimate of Level of Migration into KMA:  1960-70
KNLK
(1)  Actual 1960 Census                                     376,500
(2)  1970 Population with Natural Growth only/i             434,913
(3)  1970 Census                                            506,200
(4)  Implied Level of In-Migration/2                         71,287
(5)  Annual Level of In-Migration                             7,129
/1   Natural growth rate of 1.46% per annum.
/2   Difference between what would have been 1970 KMA population
not accounting for migration and the actual 1970 census
figures, i.e. row (3)-(2).



ANNEX 1
Page 3
The estimated nligratior. of approximately 7,100 persons per annum into KuA
corresponds to 55% of total population growth of KMA during the perioc
1960-70. It is likely that some in-migration took place from the rural
portions of St. Andrews Parish.
5.        Montego Bay is the largest seccndary city and Jamaica's main
tourist resort. The housing shortage is particularly acute and the contrast
of squatter communities (e.g. North Gulley) with luxury hotels is stark.
Spanish Town, the third largest city (though rapidly overtaking Montego Bay),
has maintained the fastest rate of growth, both in area and population.
Located only 12 miles west of Kingston, and separated by an agricultural
green belt, it is primarily dependent on the growth of Kingston's economy.
This relationship will be accentuated by the recent completion of a Bank-
financed highway project.
6.        According to the 1970 census, the average household size for the
parishes where the four major cities are located are as follows:
Table 4
Average Household Size: 1970
Parish                             No. of Persons per Ilousehold
Kingston    (      )                             3.4
St. Andrews (      )                             4.0
St. J2mes (Montego Bay)                          4.2
St. Catherine (Spanish Town)                     4.2
Clarendon (May Pen)
Housing
7.        The housing backlog, new family formation and the replacement of
obsolescent housing (estimated conservatively by the Physical Planning Unit
at 1% of total stock per annum and by AID at 2%) presents a formidable
housing need. Table 5 shows the number of households estimated by the
appraisal mission to be earning less than J$1,500 a year, for the four major
cities.
Table 5
llouseholds Earning Less Than J$1,500 A Year
Households
KMA                                90,857
,lontego Bay                        7,134
Spanish Town                        6,934
May Pen                             4,076



JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Kingston              .          No . of  Growth    Target        Initial           Desired    Renewal verage Housing
Metropolitan Area  Popuation  Year Years    Rate   Population  # Persons/House  #Persons/House  Rate          Requirement
: __._:_._._.____                              ______                                       Per  Annum
Hypothesis 1        506,200    1970    10    .0275      .66               6                5         .01       3,753
2        506,200    1970    10    .03        .66              6                 5         .01       3,969
3        506,200    1970    10    .0275      .66              7                 6         .01       3, 009
4        506,200    1970    10    .0275      .75              6                 5         .02       4,898
"t    5        506,200    1970    10    .03      0.75               7                 6         .01       3,623 
Montego Bay
Hypothesis 1         42,800    1970    10    .06        .66               6                5         .01         589
2         42,800    1970    10    .04        .66              6                 5        .01          413
3         42,800    1970    10    .06        .66              7                 6         o01         480
, 4       42,800   1:970    10   ,06         .75               6                5         .02         722
5         42,800    1970    10    .04        .75              7                 6         .01         380
Spanish Town
Hypothesis 1         4l1,i600    1970    10    .11     .66               6                5         .01       1,148
eit    2        41,600    1970    10    .07        .66              6                 5         .01         669
It    3         41,600    1970    10    .11        .66              7                 6         .01         947
it    4         41,600    1970    10    .11        .75              6                 5         .02       1,356
5         41.600    1970    10    .07        .75              7                 6         .01         622
May Pen
Hypothesis 1         26,200    1970    10    0065       .66               6                5         .01         390
2         26,200    1970    10    04         .66              6                 5         .01         253
3         26,200    1970    10    .065       .66               7                6         .01         319
4         26,200    1970    10    .065      .75               6                 5         .02         476
5         26,200    1970    10    .04        .75              7                 6         .01         233
February 20, 1974



ANNEX 1
Page 5
8.        In estimating the range of low-income housing needs, five hypothesis
were applied for each city. The results are shown in Table 6, which shows
the renewal rate to be the most sensitive factor. The estimated range of
housing requirements per annum for each city are given in Table 7.
Table 7
Low-Ineome Housing Requirements Per Annum
Kingston          4,900 - 3,000 houses per annum
Spanish Town       1,350 -   620
Montego Bay          720 -   380
May Pen              480 -   230          "
9.        Although data is scarce and unreliable, it has been estimated that
the existing housing stock in Jamaica is 434,000 units. Of these, 130,000
units were located in the KMA in 1970, of which 90,000 were occupied by
low-income households; 40,000 were considered to be sub-standard without any
precise definition of that category. The analysis in a recent AID lending
operation concluded tentatively that the urban housing stock in Jamaica would
deteriorate further unless it was increased by 7,600 units per amnum, (5,000
for new households and 2,600 replacement units).
10.       Island-wide data for private sector housing is non-existent.  How-
ever, housing activity other than KMA is concentrated in and around Montego
Bay, May Pen and Spanish Town. Table 8 below indicates the lagging public
sector house building performance:



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Table 8
Ministry of Housing Construction (1966-73)
(nuuber of housing units)
Category                                               Year
66-67  67-68  68-69  69-70  70-71  71-72
1.   Government Housing Scheme   517    422    472    287    406    405
2.   Slum Clearance                180     48     24    258       -    205
3.   US Aid                         58    292    198       -      -       -
4.   Owner occupier               427    315    307    378    421    370
5.   Aided self-help                35     24      -       -      -       -
6.   Co-op Housing                   -     13      13      -     49    200
7.   Miscellaneous-
(Farm Housing etc.)           50      47    160     -        -      -
TOTAL                       1267   1161   1174    823    876   1180
11.       The following table indicates housing production within the Kings-
ton and St. Andrews Metropolitan Area. Some house building goes unreported
and: is not reflected in the figures given here.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Table 9
Housing in KMA (1964-72)
(number of housing units)
Year
Category                  64    65    66    67    68    69    70    71    72
1. Under Mortgage
Insurance           408  1603   307   982   602   567   694   351    NA
2. KSAC area
other than (1)      1206  1454   961  1204      -     -  1335  1876    NA
3. Government or
Government
sponsored            324   165   404    69   584   585   211    82   511
Unemployment
12.       The employment survey of April 1972 shows 609,000 persons employed
out of a labor force of 713,000 in a total population estimated at 1,930.000.
Table 10 gives the pattern of economic activity and change for the 1960-1968
period. Despite a 5.5% annual rate of growth of GNP during the past decade,
the growth in employment has been quite slow, particularly in recent years,
e.g. between 1969 and 1972 employment grew at less than 3,000 jobs per year
(less than 0.5%). The average annual growth in employment was only one-third
of the average annual increase in unemployment. This is primarily due to
stagnation in the agricultural sector, though it reflects itself in urban
unemployment due to in-migration. Kingston now has approximately two-thirds
of all the unemployment in Jamaica, concentrated among females, the young
and the unskilled. Nearly 45% of the age group 14-24 years are presently
unemployed, representing about one-half of total unemployment.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Table 10
Sectoral Changes in Employment Structure of Jamaica
1960-1968 (in percentages)
Change
Economic Activity                  1960      1968   1960-1968
Agriculture                                 40.5     36.8      -3.7
Mining                                       0.8      1.4      +0.6
Construction                                 6.5      7.0     +0.5
Manufacturing Industry                       9.1     10.6      +1.5
Public Utilities                             0.5      0.8      +0.3
Distribution                                10.2     11.9     +1.7
Transportation                               2.9      3.4     +0.5
Services and Financial
Institutions                                        18.5     -2.5
Unspecified                                            -       -0.4
Source:  Second Five-Year Plan, 1970-1975, Central Planning Unit
13.       The Second Five-Year Plan projections of the Central Planning Unit,
in regard to the "unskilled" portion of the labor force, is not optimistic.
According to two alternative growth patterns of both population and economy,
the unskilled portion is expected to remain at 66-70% of the total labor
force.
Table 11
Labor Force ProJections for Jamaica, 1967-1975
Projection - 1975
1967               Alt. I    Alt. II
Total Labor Force        678,610              892,320    798,720
Total tUnskilled         443,320              626,490    532,890
Percentage                65.0                 70.2       66.7
Source: Second Five-Year Plan, 1970-1975, Central Planning Unit.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
14.       The Kingston Metropolitan Area has 60% of national industrial
activity. Although Kingston and St. Andrew parishes had about equal shares
of the total factories in Jamaica in 1966, the situation had changed in
favor of St. Andrews by 1970. A similar trend holds for employment-generating
conditions. During the last four years, St. Andrews has been responsibie
for 74% of the factory registration and 86% of the industrial employment
growth in Jamaica. The figures for KMA are 78% and 94% respectively:
Table 12
Net Additional Growth of Industrial Activity
KMA and Jamaica, 1966-1970
Factories     %      Employees      X
Kingston              +4         4.0      +406        7.9
St. Andrews          +75        74.2    +4,442       86.4
KMA                  +79        78.2    +4,848       94.3
Jamaica             +101
Table 13
Factories Registered and Number of Employees
1966                            1970
Factories        Employees      Factories         Employees
No.    %         No.    %      No.    %           No.    %
Kingston           303  28.9    10,915  26.6       307  26.7      11,321  24.5
St. Andrews        299  28.5    13,607  33.1       374  32.6      18,049  29.1
aNA                602  57.4    24,522  59.7       681  59.3      29,370  63.6
Jamaica          1,048           42,054          1,149            46,196
Source: Department of Statistics, Jamaica.
15.       The private sector accounts for over 90% of the employment in
Jamaica.  However, Government policies have encouraged factor price distor-
tions and mitigated against greater employment generation.  This is discussed
in the recent Economic Report. In particular, tax incentives have favored
capital-intensive investments and an overvalued exchange rate has made the
importation of capital equipment and intermediate goods relatively cheap.
The Industrial Incentives Law seems to have attracted undifferentiated
capital-intensive industries (investment costs per job created were $8,970
in 1971) and has been applied in a way favoring oligopolies and consequent
high prices.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
16.       Although 1,200 new jobs in manufacturing are created annually in
the Kingston Metropolitan Area, these are insufficient in absolute terms to
reduce unemployment. Furthermore, the employment pattern of low-income
communities shows less than 15% of the economically active population to be
in manufacturing and a high percentage in the service sector, particuLarly
street vending (known colloquially as "higgling" and "scuffling"). Though
survey information is scarce, the following household surveys of low-income
cormunities shiow the pattern:
Table 14
Head of Households of Trench Town and Delacree Pen
By Type of Economic Activity
(in percentages)
Trench Town     Delacree Pen
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing                    1.4             1.7
Mining, Quarrying and Refining                      0.2              0.5
Manufacture                                        10.4             16.5
Construction and Installation                      14.1             14.4
Electricity, Gas, Water and Sanitary Services       1.0              1.3
Commerce                                           19.2             14.0
Transportation, Storage and Communication           5.5              6.4
Public Administration                               7.4              6.8
Services                                           28.1             25.0
Not Classified Elsewhere                            0.2              1.9
Not Stated                                         12.5             11.5
Total                                        100.0            100.0
Source:  Housing Conditions Surveys of Trench Town (1967) and Delacree Pen
(1969), Department of Statistics, Jamaica.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
Table 15
Occupational Structure of Trench Town and Delacree Pen
(in percentages)
Household Heads - %   Worked Less than 8 Months
Trench      Delacree  Trench           Delacree
Occupation Group             Town           Pen     Town               Pen
1. Professional,
Technical and
Related                    0.7          1.6      18.2              8.6
2. Administrative,
Executive and
Managerial                  -                                      - -  -
3.  Clerical and Sales         2.4         5.7        6.3              8.1
4.  Self Employed Inde-
pendent Producers         32.5        21.9       17.9             16.4
Petty Trading           21.6        12.8       16.9             14.1
Dressmaking              5.4         4.3       18.3            19.6
5. Service, Sport and
Recreation                21.8        20.2       30.1             22.7
6. Craftsmen, Production
Process and Operating    19.6         28.8       26.6             23.1
Metal, Machinery
Products and Buildings 12.1         14.6       30.7            29.1
7. Unskilled Manual and
General Workers           23.0        21.8       25.8             22.7
Laboring                  12.1         6.8       23.6             23.1
TOTAL             100.0         00.0         -             20.4
Source:  Housing Conditions Surveys of Trench Town (1967) and Delacree Pen
(1969), Department of Statistics, Jamaica.



ANNEX I
Page 12
Income Distribution
17.       The most recent estimate of income distribution in urban households
was developed in 1970 by the Physical Planning Unit in conjunction with a
UNDP team preparing a draft National Physical Plan. It indicated that two-
thirds of the households earned less than J$1,200. The distribution was even
more striking in low-income areas like Trench Town and Delacree Pen where over
75% of the households in the late 1960s showed incomes of less than J$750.
However, sample surveys done by the Ministry of Housing and a Bank pre-
appraisal mission in 1973 showed household income in similar communities to
be considerably higher. The distribution figures have therefore been
adjusted by 10% for unreported income and 3% per year for inflation for the
five-year period between the original data 1969-70 and the expected completion
of construction of the first serviced lots with core units in 1974/75. Thus
the 33rd percentile would have an estimated household income of J$625 and
the 66th percentile would be J$1500.
Table 16
Income Levels in KMA
(in % of Urban Households)
1958    1963    1968    1971    1980    1990
Less than  J$500            56       44.4    36       32       23       18
J$   501 - 1,200            28.5    35.5    35        34        30      26
J$ 1,201 - 2,500             8.5    12        16      15       20       21
J$ 2,501 - 5,000                                      11.5      15      18
J$ 5,001 and over            7.0*    8*      13*.      7.5      12      17
*    J$2,500 and over.



ANEX 1
Page 13
Table 17
Income Distribution of Households of
Trench Town and Delacree Pen
(in percentages)
Annual Income                Trench Town      Delacree Pen
-=($ -    )- -               -
Less than 192                     10.7              5.0
192 -   384                    33.8             25.7
384 -   576                    24.5             24.2
576 -   76R                    16.0             21.4
768 -   960                     8.1             11.5
960 - 1,536                     5.4              9.2
1,536 - 1,920                     1.3              1.6
1,920 +                           0.2              1.4
TOTAL                           100.0            100.0
Source:  Housing Conditions Surveys of Trench Town (1967) and
Delacree Pen (1969), Departast of Statistics,
Jamaica.
18.       Among the households with incomes below .J$768 in these_tvo comuni-
ties, more than 50% had three persons or less; one out of every five were
single-person households.  This range of household size indicates that a
policy of subletting in the sites and services project should be adopted.
Urban Planning
19.       Responsibility for planning and controlling growth in the Kingston
Metropolitan Area is formally vested in:
(a) the Town Planning Authority, according to the Town and Coumtry
Planning Law of 1957 as amended;
(b) the Kingston-St. Andrews Corporation (KSAC), the two parishes
which form the nucleus of the Kingston Metropolitan Area (KMA);
(c)  the Parish of St. Catherine in the western portion of the KMA
(Portmore, Braeton); and
(d) the Ministry of Local Government to which the twelve Parish
Councils and the KSAC report.
In reality, however, the most important bodies are the Ministry of Mines and
Natural Resources (which effectively controls the Town Planning Authority)



ANNEX 1
Page 14
and the Urban Development Corporation (UDC), a statutory body which takes its
development directives from the Ministry of Mines and Natural Resources. UDC
is by far the most effective agency involved in both urban planning and imple-
mentation due to the quality of its management and staff and due also to the
fact that it is backed by strong governmental and private interests, though
it is not easy to distinguish between private and public sector interests in
its operations.
20.       Although the parish councils and KSAC are designated by law as the
local planning authorities, their lack of qualified staff and the political
realities of the situation generally preclude them from effectively exercising
their planning roles. Moreover, according to the Town and Country Planning
Law, it is the Town Planning Authority (TPA) which nominally has the more
important role through two mechanisms:
(a) issuance of Development Orders whereby growth in certain areas
could be fostered or blocked as the case may be (the last
Development Order for Kingston dates back to 1966 and a new
one is in preparation); and
(b)  control may be entirely removed from a parish by "calling-in"
certain areas. In Kingston a downtown area has been called-in
bv the TPA since February 1969, which resembles one of the
more illogical examples of a gerry-mandered congressional
district. Prior to 1972, the TPA consisted of one person --
the Government Town Planner who wielded wide, discretionary
powers.. In July 1972, the Authority was expanded into a
committee of three persons - the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of MNR. In net effect, the MMNR now exercises prime
responsibility for urban planning in Jamaica but has taken an
exclusively physical planning approach. The Authority draws
upon the technical advice of the Government Town Planner and
Town Planning Division, a department within the MMNR. 1/
21.       Under the called-in mechanism, all building plans have to be
submitted for approval to the Planning Authority before being registered
with the KSAC. The Authority's decision can only be reversed by the Minister
of Mining and Natural Resources. The Authority issues about 100 decisions
a month for plans covering the Kingston called-in area (which is less than
20% of the total area), the majority being routine approvals. In areas that
are not called-in, building plans are first registered with the KSAC; the
developer and KSAC sometimes then obtain the technical advice of the Govern-
ment Town Planner who is part of the Development Controls Section of the
Town Planning Division. The Planning Authority examines plans from the
1/   Prior to 1972 under the old Government, the Town Planning Department
fell within the Ministry of Finance and Planning. The MMNR is a
creation of the new Government.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
physical viewpoint only and makes no judgment on the socio-economic soundness
of any development proposals. The two persons appointed to the committee by
the Minister are an architect and a surveyor. Several Government officials
both within and outside the Town Planning Division have expressed their
concern about the lack of an economist or urban planner.
22.       From April 1967 - May 1972, the UNDP provided technical assistatnce
to the Town Planning Department for the formulation of a national physical
plan. 1/ The Plan, together with about 30 background papers and studies, has
an extreme physical planning orientation and provides little guidance on the
economic soundness of various investment projects. 2/ The draft plan, prepared
under the previous Government, has never been adopted by the new Government.
There is an urgent need to coordinate the investment programs of the major
agencies influencing urban growth in the Kingston Metropolitan Area, viz. to
formulate a capital budget for the KMA. Presently, major investments are
made in an ad-hoc, isolated manner by various agencies described below.
23.       The Urban Development Corporation (UDC) was established in April
1968 as a statutory body within the Ministry of Finance and Planning with
wide powers to acquire and develop land; to engage in urban renewal such as
the Kingston Waterfront Project; and to develop new areas such as the proposed
controversial Hellshire Hills project. The legislation which established UDC
makes it a planning authority in its own right, i.e. in those areas which is
developing. Consequently, UDC is not required to obtain approval of its
plans from the Town Planning Authority. UDC's only review is at the minis-
terial level in that it is now a statutory body under the Ministry of Mining
and Natural Resources and receives development guidelines from the same
Minister as the Town Planning Authority.
24.       The Water Commission is a semi-autonomous agency under the juris-
diction of the Ministry of Public Utilities and is responsible for water
supply and sewage services in Kingston and St. Andrew. It is just completing
the 15 MGD, Bank-financed Rio Cobre groundwater project which will produce
sufficient water to meet demands through 1977. Studies and planning for
another major water supply scheme, to be constructed in 1974 through 1978,
have commeneed. Under conditions of normal rainfall, the Commission provides
its consumers with safe water in adequate quantities. Virtually all services
are metered and the tariff, which averages about J$0.70 per 1,000 imperial
gallons, covers capital recovery and operating costs. The tariff structure
is exemplary, with higher consumption levels charged at higher unit prices.
The ratio of collections to billings is reasonable, as is the level of leak-
age. About 10% of the water customers are also served by Commission-owned
pipe sewer systems, the balance either discharged to septic tanks and tile
fields or seepage pits. The Commission operates one major primary treatment
1/   Town Planning Department, A National Physical Plan for Jamaica, 1970-
1990, United Nations' Special Fund Project assistance in Physical
Development Planning in two volumes, 1971.
2/   The Kingston Regional Plan, which is one of the in-depth studies, is
possibly the most useful in this regard.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
plant and several secondary plants. The treatment plants are poorly operated,
hence their effectiveness is less than was originally intended. The Bank is
encouraging implementation of a new sewerage tariff which is related to the
volume of sewage produced.
25.       The National Water Authority, also a semi-autonomous agency but
under the Ministry of Mines and Natural Resources, is responsible for bulk
water supplies and sewage collection and disposal throughout the country,
with the exception of Kingston-St. Andrews. It develops water sources and
either directly operates distribution systems or sells water to local gov-
ernments. It operates and maintains about 25 water supply systems and charges
20i per 1,000 gallons for delivered water. None of its systems have un-
metered service connections. The managerial operations of both the Water
Commission and the National Water Authority are weak. Labor overstaffing,
poor information flows, a shortage of middle managers and insufficient long-
range planning are examples of the deficiencies. The proposed Bank loan
to the Water Commission for water supply and sewerage would have institution-
building of the Commission a major objective.
26.       Various investment and operational inefficiencies result from the
fragmentation of water supply responsibilities in the Kingston region. For
example, the NWA and the Water Commission have competing objectives to
develop the relatively scarce water sources in and near the region, each for
its own purposes. Nor is there a uniform tariff policy; the NWA's price is
subsidized and consumers on the St. Catherine side of the Kingston-St. Andrews/
St. Catherine border are neither metered nor charged the full cost of provid-
ing the service. The Bank has endorsed Jamaican proposals for unifying water
supply development and operations, but implementation is politically diffi-
cult and probably a year or more away.
27.       Urban transport planning is all but non-existent.  Jamaica Omnibus
Services Ltd. (JOS), a privately-owned franchise which operates all of
Kingston's 500 some buses, is the most important entity in this sector and
does its own planning though there have been considerable pressures during
the past year to put JOS under greater Government control. The Ministry of
Works is responsible for the construction and maintenance of roads island-
wide and shares with KSAC in an unclear way responsibility for the Kingston
Metropolitan Area. Performance has been poor in both maintenance and
construction. A recent Bank loan should improve maintenance capacity but
would not have any direct effect on urban transport planning. UDC, mean-
while, is planning independently an important urban expressway affecting the
developed waterfront and the Central Business District.
28.       Other ministries have an impact, though no formal planning respon-
sibilities, e.g. the Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and Trans-
port, to which a number of regulatory bodies report such as the Public
Passenger Transport Board of Control (which regulates bus services), the
Road Traffic Licensing Authority and the Public Utilities Commission. The
Ministry of Finance, which under the previous Government was Finance and
Planning, exercises an important approval authority and currently is trying
to recapture the Projects Unit from the National Planning Agency. The latter



AxNEX 1
Page 17
was created by the new Government in 1972 and reports directly to the Prime
Minister. Although it has thus far had no responsibilities for urban plan-
ning, its staff will participate in the Urban Growth and Management Study,
which will analyze the priorities for investment within the KMA taking into
account the fiscal resources available, particularly those projected from
the improved property tax regime (see Annex 6).
29.       Industrial location decisions have a major impact on growth
patterns in the Kingston-Spanish Town region. Such decisions are influenced
by the Jamaica Industrial Development Corporation (JIDC), a statutory body
created in 1952 but under ministerial direction, which is currently the
Ministry of Tourism and Industry. Setting aside the questionable soundness
of Government's industrialization policies which attract undifferentiated
capital-intensive induistries to Jamaica, JIDC influences urban growth by
means of approval authority for industries and through the provision of land
and factory buildings. It currently owns about 729 acres from 27 different
areas in Jamaica. Land is valued at cost and not at market prices, which
is a significant advantage in the Kingston area and distorts location decisions.
30.       The Kingston-St. Andrews Corporation (KSAC) is the municipal govern-
ment and is responsible for basic city services, e.g. street cleaning and
maintenance, garbage collection, fire protection and city welfare programs.
It also administers the Building Code and has final approval authority in
issuing building permits for both commercial and residential structures.
KSAC should certainly play a leading role in urban affairs but has functioned
primarily as a training forum for politicians and has little to say about
urban growth and investments. This is evidenced by its lack of investment
budget, non-involvement in planning and small operating budget of $300,000
annually.
33.       The Physical Resources Development Committee (PRDC) was created as
part of the new planning process which came into being after the formation
of the National Planning Agency. The Committee is a subcommittee of the
Economic Council, chaired by the Minister of Mines and Natural Resources,
with a Technical Secretary from the National Planning Agency. Its member-
ship consists of the Chief Planning Officer or head of the following minis-
tries or agencies: Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of Industry,
Tourism and Commerce, Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and
Transport, Urban Development Corporation, and Ministry of Works. PRDC is
charged with responsibility for developing, through its represented organiza-
tions, a national physical resources development plan as part of the national
economic development plan. The Committee began functioning in September 1972
and is now in the process of producing a planning memorandum on land and
water resources development. In this memorandum, the goals, philosophy,
policies, programs and projects of the Government will be identified for
land and water uses. The program will consider four main factors: capital
requirements, institutional requirements for implementation, legislative
requirements, and information and research needed for the development
programs.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF HOUSING/SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT UNIT
Project Execution
1.        The executing agency will be the Ministry of Housing which has
created a special Sites and Services Unit to implement the project, as had
been done for project preparation. The Director of the implementing unit
will be equal in rank to the Under Secretary of Housing and will liaise
closely with the Minister. The agreed staffing of the Unit should assure
sound project execution. The present operations and structure of the Ministry
of Housing need to be reorganized and its long-term housing policies reformu-
lated, for which the Minister of Rousing has requested technical assistance.
2.        The Ministry's operations date back to 1937, with the creation of
the Central Housing Authority (CRA), which constructed a total of 4,000
housing units in the next two decades for low-income families, rural owner/
occupiers and ex-servicemen. In 1951, the Hurricane Housing Organization
(RHO) was formed after a severe hurricane destroyed or damaged 75,000 homes.
During the next six years, the HHO built a total of 7,500 houses on 1,200
acres of land. These were mainly small one-room houses. In some cases,
there were core houses allowing for self-help extensions on large lots, e.g.
370 m2 lots in the Balmagie area of West Kingston. Consequently, some of
the lots have been "rillegally" subdivided. Many of these core hurricane
households in Tower Hill and Balmagie have been consolidated by the fmily
occupiers into substantial three-room houses.
3.        In 1956, the Department of Housing was formed by merging the Centrai
Housing Authority with the Hurricane Housing Organization.  During the years
1956-66, the Department constructed 17,200 units and subcontracted about
6,100 units to private developers. In June 1966, the Department of Housing
was fully integrated into the Ministry of Housing, which up to that time had
been responsible for policy formulation. During the next six years, the
Ministry of Housing was changed into Ministry of Health and Housing; then
Housing and Social Welfare; thereafter, Public Utilities, and Housing; and,
finally, in 1972 Public Utilities was transferred to another Ministry, leaving
the Ministry of Housing intact.
4.        These metamorphoses aggravated the Housing Ministry's cumbersome
operations. Chart 1 depicts the current organizational structure of the
Ministry. The Ministry is divided into three departments - Pinancial
Administration, Program Planning and Implementation and Legal. The Estate



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Management Head Office reports to the Financial Administration Department.
The Sites and Services Planning Unit created in September 1972 reports
directly to the Minister.  The Ministry has a total staff of about 750, of
which 550 are permanent and the remainder are casual employees such as
janitors, watchmen, cleaners and workshop laborers.
5.        The Financial Administration Department is responsible for personnel,
administration, statistical and accounting activities, estate management,
and house rental and mortagage collections. The Department's accounting
metbods are outdated and information retrieval is extremely difficult.
6.        The Program Planning and Implementation Department is the technical
arm of the Ministry. Once a request is made for a housing project and approved
by the Minister, the Department acquires the land (with the help of the
Legal Department). The Plannning and Design Office then undertakes surveys,
architectural plans, detailed engineering and quantity surveying. Thereafter,
the Construction and Maintenance Office supervises the housing construction
which is usually undertaken by subcontractors. Materials for construction
are obtained directly from the workshop. Transportation to site is done by
private haulers. All construction contracts are let on a negotiated basis,
frequently to small contractors with political considerations playing a large
role. Costs tend to be high and the quality of work, especially finishing,
quite low.
7.        The Construction and Maintenance Division is organized by region.
There are three area directorates: the Corporate Area of Kingston and
St. Andrews, the Eastern Area, and the Western Area. Each area contains
three zones, comprising two parishes each. In addition to construction,
the Division's responsibilities extend to the maintenance of Government-
built rental units which is a role little exercised. The Division does not
maintain owner-occupied housing or housing constructed for other ministries.
8.        In many cases the Program Planning and Implementation Department
contracts out the planning tasks because of its lack of qualified staff.
Furthermore, it is unable to supervise adequately the planning and construc-
tion cycles.
9.        Once construction of a Government housing scheme is completed, it
is handed over to the Estate Management Head Office (EMHO) for management
and collection of the monthly payments. This Division has four main
functions: it must investigate the numerous applicants to see if they
conform to the basic requirements of income and family size to be eligible
for the various housing programs, e.g. one criterion of the ministry is '
that the monthly payments should not exceed 25% of the household's monthly
income. Using these criteria, the EMHO allocates the housing units. It
is responsible for collecting rents; and a final responsibility is tenant
education. Here, sociologists or social workers try to inform the clientele
of their rights and responsibilities and how to solve or avoid problems with
their homes. As in the case of other divisions, EMfO is divided into 14



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       The following table shows the d4istribution of core patterns and
the level of service designed for each site:
Site Layout by Sanitary Core Configurations
and Levels of Services
(in nuibers of lots)
Level of                                     Marcus  Campland   Spanish Total  x of al_
Services           Design Layout             Garvey               Town             Lots
I    BS(4)  - Basic Services, 4 core
units back-to-back            314      202        224    740       41
( C(4) - Built Sanitary core, 4
i          core units back-to-back       266      160        172    598       33
II (
C(2)  - Built Sanitary core, 2
core units back-to-back        48       22         50    120        7
K S(2) - Built core and shelter,
(          -room, 2 core units back-
(          to-back                       154       66        110    330       18
( S(O) - Built core and shelter,
1 core unit                     3        5          2     10        1
Total                           785      455        558  1          100%



ANNEX 2
Page 4
areas, conforrming basically to the parishes. This Division also suffers
from lack of suitably qualified personnel, e.g. in the area of tenant
education the Ministry employs only one sociologist.
lb¢       The Legal Department is small and is directly under the Permanent
Secretary. It acts as the legal advisor to the Minister and has the responsi-
bility for drawing up all legal documents concerning land acquisition and
contracts for the sales and rental of Government housing schemes' units.
The Department is also responsible for initiating remedial action in cases
of payment arrearages and other contract violations.
Stores and Workshop
12.       The Stores and Workshop are administered under separate divisions
in the Ministry of Housing but are located together in a large compound of
about five acres. The value of the plant and equipment of;both Stores and
Workshop was estimated by the mission at $0.5 million. In addition, the
Ministry maintains a four-acre site for the AID Housing Project Stores.
The Store has a staff of 100 people, 55 are on the permanent establishment
and the remainder are laborers. The Workshop's staff presently number 89,
having been reduced from 113. This staff is divided among office, machine
shop, joiner shop, and concrete section personnel.
13.       The Stores purchases raw materials for building and the production
of housing components from the supply division of the Ministry of Finance.
The Ministry of Finance marks up the prices of the materials by 2.5 percent.
Annually, the Stores procures between 400 and 500 separate items ranging
from nails and paint to roofing and steel reinforcing bars. On site as of
June 1973, there were over 900 separate building items, and an inventory
worth an estimated $4 million. For financial year 1971-72, the Stores
purchased a total of $1,598,706 worth of goods from the Ministry of Finance.
This compares with a total of $386,152 in finanncial year 1968-69. No
figures are available for 1972-73, but indications are that the purchases
of the Stores will surpass the 1971-72 figures.
14.       The Stores issue supplies to the Workshop, where components are
manufactured for the various Government housing schemes. The Stores attaches
a fee of 7 percent to the prices of the materials passed on to the Workshop.
The fee is intended as a charge for handling and as an attempt to introduce
some degree of profitability into the operations of the Stores. For financial
year 1971-72, the Stores issued a total of $1,103,987 worth of materials
to the Workshop, in marked contrast to the $676,431 worth of materials issued
in 1968-69.
15.       The Workshop produces components for the Ministry's housing schemes,
both sales and rental units. It also produces components for slum clearance
sales/rentals and owner-occupied units.  In addition, the Workshop produced
kits for indigent houses for the Ministry of Local Government and farm houses
for the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture, however, has



ANNEX 2
Page 5
discontinued the use of the Workshop's kits as of the last year, and now
produces and erects its own farm housing.  Table 8 in Annex 1 shows the
units constructed from Workshop output over the last five-year period.
16.       The Workshop turns over the finished components to the Construction
and Maintenance Division or to the contractors for site erection. The
cost of the finished kits reflects only the costs of the materials used in
their manufacture. The cost of labor and management of the Workshop is not
included. This is a part of the subsidy of Government housing; other
subsidies include interest rates, cash grants and the cost of land which
is not reflected in the price or rental value of the units when completed.
17.       The kits and components turned out by the Workshop go to a variety
of units of varying specifications and costs. An indigent unit is all timber
construction from a readymade kit from the Workshop. On site, the house
is built of dwarf block walls on simple strip foundations with ten inch
minimum space below the floor. This unit, with erection, transport and
site preparation costs included, is priced at J$447. The farm house, now
discontinued, was priced at J$165. A type 542 or detached "post panel" house
was sold for J$1,166. The unit has two bedrooms, living room and porch.
Construction consists of post and panel, 4-1/2" x 4-1/2" precast concrete
columns at 4'0" corners with walls of interlocking concrete panels in column
grooves. The roof is of aluminum sheeting. Normally, no water supply is
provided in this house. Type 604 is a detached post and panel house similar
to the 542 type, but includes a sanitary core. This unit is priced at
J$2,205. Type 351C is a detached "block and steel" house at J$2,600. The
unit is constructed with reinforced blockwork built of concrete strip
foundations. The roof is of aluminum sheeting. This house has two bedrooms,
livingroom, porch, kitchen and bathroom.
18.       The increased purchasing and issuing of materials by the Stores
and the increased output and deliveries by the Workshop, perhaps signal an
improving situation in the operations of the Stores and Workshop. It is
evident, however, that this considerable physical plant is still under-
utilized and that wastage is high. A productivity study has long been pro-
mised by the Jamaican Industrial Development Corporation but is not forth-
coming. Two immediate improvements would be: first, the introduction of
double shifts in the Workshop if the announced plan of the Minister to build
4,000 units per annum is to be realized and, secondly, the introduction of
a commercial accounting system in the Stores-Workshop operations.
Capital Expenditure Program
19.       Although, according to the Housing Act, the Ministry is supposed
to construct "houses for persons in the low-income categories" (Act No. 55
of 1968), most Government houses built to-date are certainly not low-income
ones (a house which would cost less than J$3,500). Two-thirds or more of
Kingston's population would not be able to service the mortgage or rental
payments required on the Government-constructed houses without considerable
subsidization. The working definitions employed by the Ministry are:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(a) low-income house--less than J$7,000;
(b)  middle-income house --J$7,000-J$14,000; and
(c) high-income--in excess of J$14,000.
20.       The source of capital for Government housing construction is the
Housing Fund, a statutory fund established by the 1968 Housing Act. Table 1
shows the Housing Fund Capital Account for 1971-74. Most of the Housing
Fund is derived in the form of grants from Central Government's Consolidated
Fund. The 1974 Estimates of Expenditure show a Housing Fund of J$10.1
million, of which J$8.5 million will come out of the Consolidated Fund and
J$1.6 million as receipts in the form of payments by house and land purchasers.
The Consolidated Fund grant, therefore, constitutes 84% of the Housing Fund
for 1973-74 as compared to 75% in 1972-73 (revised figures) and 81% in
1971-72 (revised figures). The 1973-74 estimates have still to be revised
by the Ministry of Finance before the year-end March 31, 1974, so possibly
the final figures might show a similar percentage (75%) of Consolidated Fund
contributions.
21.       The Housing Fund is utilized on various housing programs as listed
on the expenditure side of the Capital Account shown in Table 1. In Table 2
the number of houses built under these programs since 1956 are shown. These
programs comprise:
(a)  Government Housing Schemes (Sales and Rental) which is
the largest progrsm accounting for 42% of the 1973-74
expenditure (Table 1). To date 293 schemes have been
constructed under this program (Table 2) although some
schemes are additions or revisions of earlier ones.
Sales units account for 3/4 of all units built. Table 3
lists some of the sales and rental schemes built showing
parish location, number of units, acreage, densities and
unit costs (equivalent to sales price). Most of the
houses built have been in the more rural areas or small
towns where units have been sold for J$2,000-3,000, while
those in Kingston have cost upwards of J$4,000, such as
the recently completed Duhaney Park apartments in west
Kingston (Scheme No. 293) where efficiencies are being
sold for J$3,130, 1 bedroom apartments for J$3,500 and
2 bedrooms for up to J$4,800.  These prices do not
include various subsidies, i.e. 20% of capital cost,
interest rates that amount to a further 10% subsidy of
the capital value and the household is not charged for
planning and administration costs or the market value
of land. On the sales units a 5% deposit is required
and mortagages are given for up to 25 years;



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(b) Slum Clearance Schemes. Under this program squatter
settlements are cleared and relocated to temporary decant-
shelters while more permanent structures (single
level and 4 storey walkups) are built. Slum clearance
is budgeted to account for 31% of fiscal 1973-74 expendi-
tures as compared to 22% for the previous year and 30%
in 1971-72. A criticism of this program would be that
less units are built than are razed leading to net reduc-
tions in housing stock. For example, in the ongoing
Trench Town slum clearance project 4,991 households will
be replaced while the new structures will accommodate
only 3,784 households -- a net reduction of 1,207 units.
However, Government argues that in some cases, such as
Trench Town, slum clearance is the only method of dealing
with the severe crime problem. It would seem, however,
that the slum clearance programs are:
Mi) costly;
(ii) not making an impact on the crime situation; and
(iii) reducing housing stock.
The technical assistance component will evaluate the
Ministry's slum clearance schemes and make long-term
program recommendations. The remaining programs are
comparatively small (Table 1);
(c)  Owner/Occupier Schemes - under this scherme owners of lots
in rural areas or occupiers with at least a 30-year
lease are given assistance loans up to J$1,000 for repairs
or extensions to their houses. Construction materials
and housing components are supplied by the Ministry's
Stores and Workshop. Limited assistance is also given
in some urban areas. Although only a small portion of
the capital budget is devoted to this program (5% of
1973-74 capital expenditure budget), the number of housing
units assisted is fairly substantial - 6,184 since 1951
(Table 2). The most popular house built by the Workshop
(No. 604, 2 bedroom) costs J$2,600 not including transport
and subsidy elements;
(d) Aided Self-Help - this program commenced in 1961. Only
90 units have been completed - 30 in Central Village,
Saint Catherine Parish and 60 units in Raymond Dam,
Clarendon Parish. Inadequate support from the Ministry
has constrained this program;



ANNEX 2
Page 8
(e)  Housing Cooperatives - two programs have been completed
by Mutual Housing Services, Inc. as sub-contractors to
the Ministry:
(i)  Mountain View Terrace in south-east Kingston where
159 attractive duplex units were constructed in
1970-71 at a unit cost of J$6,776;
(ii) Delacree Park in west Kingston where 90 duplex
units costs were J$4,000-6,850 for 5 alternative
designs. This project is not as attractive as
the Mountain View one because of the inferior
quality of design and construction, poor upkeep,
and larger and poorer families. However, the
income levels match more closely the 25% ratio
of monthly payment rent as a proportion of income
used by the Ministry, whereas in Mountain View
the middle-income residents are paying no more
than 10% of income to monthly installments. The
attractiveness of the Mountain Terrace project
should lead to a large capital gain to the
residents who are free to sell their house units
in 1974. Mutual Housing Services (with whom the
U.S. based Foundation for Cooperative Housing
- FCH - has a contract) acts as a cooperative
in collecting monthly payments and charges
households a high fee for the maintenance
services -- $17 of the households' $64 monthly
payment represents insurance and cooperative fee.
22.       Two other programs underaken by the Ministry which are not shown
in the Ministry's Estimates (Table 1) are:
(a) Indigent Housing, a program administered by the Ministry
of Local Government for which the Housing Ministry's
Workshop produces the house component parts and acts as
contractor in erecting the houses. Some 4,600 units have
been built since 1956.  Recent prices have been J$500 per
unit. The subsidy element through uncharged Workshop
labor amounts to an additional J$500. The houses are
usuallY 192 sq ft with concrete block foundation, timber
walls and corrugated aluminum roofing;
(b) Farm Houses - under this program, the Workshop produces
prefabricated house components for the Ministry of Agri-
culture. A partially completed 3-bay farm house con-
structed out of concrete block posts and timber walls
costs J$360. Since 1957, R,700 houses have been built
under this nrogram.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Government's Future Housing Program
23.       Since the new Government took office in mid-1972, the most -'-ni-
ficant change in the Ministry's policies and operations has been the adoption
of a Sites and Services program. The Bank project covers the first three years
of this program. The new government recognized that the major public housing
schemes, sales and rental, were not meeting the low-income segments of the
urban population. Consequently, a self-help approach to housing construction
was endorsed as a way of tackling the proliferating squatter problem.
Government's intention is that this program should not be a "stopgap solution"
but one which will grow into the major operation of the Ministry. Conse-
quently, Sites and Services will account for a large segment of the next
three years' expenditures. An amount of J$550,000 is included in the 1973-74
expenditures estimates to cover construction costs and planning expenses
for the Sites and Services program. This item will need to be increased
by z.bout J$5 million per year for the three years April 1974- March 1977.
The expenditures will be offset by an accounting inflow of the proposed
World Bank loan.
24.       It is difficult to project Government expenditures on the regular
sales/rental and slum clearance schemes since they will be reviewed and
possibly be reoriented, pending the outcome of the technical assistance
recommendations. The Ministry can commit projects in excess of the Housing
Fund allocation and in fact has already committed projects totalling J$14.9
million for fiscal 1973-74, or J$4.8 million in excess of the figures shown
in Table 1. The items that have incremental commitments are shown below:
1973-74             1973-74
Original Estimates    Commitments
=- - J------3_
Sales and Rental Schemes         4,271,000              6,271,000
Slum Clearance                   2,975,000              4,975,000
Sites and Services                 550,000                750,000
Planning Expenses                  336,000                536,000
Administration and Financing of the Ministry
25.       As discussed in para 19, the Ministry obtains most of its finances
from Central Government contributions. Because there is no Balance Sheet
compiled showing the assets and liabilities of the Ministry at any given
time, it is impossible to evaluate the financial soundness of the Ministry.
Table 4 shows the Ministry's operating expenses (Object Accounts in
Estimates of Expenditure) for the fiscal years 1970-71 to 1972-73. The
decrease in total expenses from J$2.6 million in 1971-72 to J$1.7 million
in 1972-73 is the result of the transfer of the Public Utilities Commissions
and Regulatory Boards to the Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications
and Transport.



ANNEX 2
Page 1I°
26.      Table 5 shows the Housing ?Rund Income and Expenditure Account
for 1972-73 and estimates for 1973-74. Collections on rental schemes,
which are shown at J$190,000 for 1972-73, have improved since January when
the Ministry undertook a campaign to reduce the number of arrearages wiich
was extremely high. Prior to June 1972, the payment on sales and rental
units were both about 60% in arrears. About 3/4 of the arrearages on rental
units were more than six months behind in their payments. Eviction measures
(Section 30 of the 1968 Housing Act) were seldom invoked. But through
increased eviction threats and better collection procedures, the Ministry
ha be<- uccessful during 1973 in reducing the arrearages situation to about
a 30-40% rate, which is still high.
27.      Table 6 shows the Expenditure Accounts of the Ministry by item for
1971-72 and 1972-73. These are the overall expenditures as coaipared to the
partial expenses relating to the Housing Fund only, shown in Table 5.
Personal Emoluments which amount to J$1.4 million a year (Table 6) comprises
80% of total expenditures in 1972-73 compared to 52% in 1971-72 because of
a drop in other expenditure items, principally "grants and contributions or
subscriptions".
Proposals for Reorganization of the Ministry
28.      From the above analysis, it is clear that the Ministry is:
(a) a subsidized operation of Government which for the most
part is not carrying out the low-cost housing mandate
contained in the 1968 Housing Act and endorsed strongly
by the new Government;
(b) an inefficient operation in need of substantial reorganiza-
tion; and
(c) as presently structured and staffed, only able to implement
the sites and services project by establishing and properly
staffing a special unit for this purpose.
29.      Proposals to reorganize the Ministry have often been considered.
In December 1972, Cabinet approved the creation of a National Housing
Corporation, following the recommendations of a Housing Advisory Committee
which had been set-up by the Minister in mid-1972, to advise him on housing
policy and ways of restructuring the Ministry. The Housing Corporation has
still to be staffed although a Board of Directors and General-Manager have
been appointed. Presently, the Corporation Board is considering what should
be the proper role and functions of the Corporation. It seems that:



ANNEX 2
Page 11
(a) as a statutory body, it will operate quite outside the
Ministry in the execution of "profit-earning" middle-
income housing projects;
(b) it might undertake renewal projects and land development
projects similar to (and presumably in competition with)
UDC;
(c)  for the next few years, the Corporation has little
relevance to the sites and services project. The
General-Manager of the Housing Corporation believes that
the Corporation should not implement a sites and services
project, nor will it concern itself with the other
operations of the Ministry. The Corporation will be
operating at the middle-income, upper-middle income
sub-markets;
(d) the Corporation's eventual profits, however, revert to
the Ministry and could be used for low-income housing
or sites and services.
30.       As explained above, the accounts of the Ministry are not kept on a
commercial basis and there are no balance sheets or cash flow projections,
although there are Housing Fund Capital Accounts and Income and Expenditure
accounts. Information retrieval is particularly difficult, which hinders
the proper planning and administration of housing schemes. Some of the
programs date back a number of years and there is good reason to consider
reorienting several programs. The Government is in the process of reformu-
lating the programs of the Ministry.
31.       Construction costs have been comparatively high in Jamaica and are
now rising very rapidly. There is a need to examine the construction industry
to determine the causes of high construction costs. This should include an
analysis of the mortgage market, Government tendering practices and other
administrative practices, procedures and attendant costs.
Scope of the Diagnostic Study of the Ministry of Housing and Public
Housing Sector
32.      Part of the technical assistance component of the project will be
used for a study which will:
(a) examine the ongoing programs of the Ministry and the administration
(e.g., estate management, collections of monthly payments) of
housing schemes;
(b) propose alternative housing programs that will better meet the
full housing needs for low-income families in Jamaica;



ANNEX 2
Page 12
(c) review the organizational structure of the Ministry and make
recommendations regarding the structure and the type and number
of staff required to carry out the Ministry's reformulated
programs;
(d) design and implement a detailed accounting system based on
modern accounting practices;
(e) design and implement an information retrieval system that
will serve as a basis for improving the operations and
management of the Ministry; and
(f) concurrently with the above objectives but as a separate
effort, analyze the causes underlying high construction
costs in Jamaica and make recommendations on corrective
measures.
It is estimated that the study will require 30 to 35 man-months of expert
Assistance for the Ministry of Housing component and 9 to 12 man-months I
for the study of construction costs. Firms may submit proposals for either
or both components. Government counterpart technical staff, clerical support,
office space; and vehicles will be provided by the Ministry.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 
Table 1
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Housing Fund -
Capit  AcoXrit, 19 1-1974
(in thowands of Jamaican Dollars)
Receipts                                       1971-72     1972-73      1973-74
1   Opening Caah Balance                             217         641
2. Surplus from Income/Expenditure Account            29          55           92
3. Capital Recoveries
Sales SoCebm                                  550          800        1,250
Owner/Occupier                                 100         130          156
Sites and Services                             -            -             5
Land ales                                      69           21            2
Stores Sales                                   -            -
4. Sale of Iand and Buildings to ministry
of Youth and Comanity Develoumnt                         1,647
j   Consolidated Fund Contribution               4,200       5,o62         8,462
5,165       6,709       10,100
Expenditures
1. Regular Program
Sales and Rental Schemes                    2,199       3,925         4,271
Owner/Occupier &cbeme                         391          324          500
.Aded Self-help Scheme                           2          -            42
2. Special Projects
Slum Clearance                              1,562        1,471        2,975
Housing Cooperatives                           -            -           100
Sites and Services                             -      .                 550
3.  Land Acquisition                                 254         754        1,326
4. Planning Expenses                                  48         235          336
5.  Stores - purchaas less issues                    709                      -
5,165       6,709       10,100
Source: Estimates of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance._
February 20, 1974



JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
NIUBER OF HOUS.ING SCHEHES 1UILT BY oOVENMENT 1i956-1972
Totsa. No. *Total No. Of ootofepstMnhlotl
Name of Schemes          of Bldgs. Uits in Show    Cost of          Deposit      Monthly         Honthly
Programs  Sales   Rental   Holding        Holding       Rental       Installment
Goverment Housing Schemes      2 2    5,471     1,832  From $190.00  From $18.00  From $1.20   From $1.35
(incluading qum Clearance                      .      to $5,826.00  to  $244.00  to  $10.00   to  $27.24
ince   1. 96)                          -                            _____     __
A.I.D. Loan Program             6       605             Fr.$2,295.00  Fr. $228.00       _         Fr. $10.46
(since 1963)         ____._to $4,265.oo  to  $426.0o                                            to  $19.45
Owner/Occupier Scheme            -    6,184             From  668.00  From  $0.00                 From $3.03
(saince  9'1)                   ___9                 to $1,800      to  $144.00                 to  $11.26
Indigent Housing                 _    4,603       _          $324.00       -            _
(since 1956)                                                                                  .              -
Farm Housing                     _    8,718       _          $317.00       $30.00       _
(since 1957)                                          and $362.00  and $60.00  -_._._:_ _
Aided Self-Help                  _       90       _           _
(since 1963)                                                 , -            __         .
Source: Minist7 of Housing, Accounting Department.
F'ebruary 20, 1974



JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Gzovernment Housing Schemes 1972/73
(illustrative, partial listing)
Sales    Monthly
Scheme                       Name of                    Date of      No. of  Type          Materials          Price   Rental or
Number     Parish            Scheme                     Approval      Units   of             used           (Subsi-   Install-
in    House                         dized)    ment
Scheme                                     (J$)      (J$)
255      St. Thonas       Yallahs                     12 -  6 -72      10    2 b/r   Block and Steel    3,152.33    20.36
258      St. Mary         Arcadia/Gayle               12 -  6 -72      20    2 b/r      "                  3,795.75    24.52
261       "               Fort Stewart                Dev.
263       "               Islington 3rd B/A           12 -  7 -72      20    2 b/r   Block and Steel    3,818.37    26.67
270       "               Gray's Inn 4th B/P          13 -  7 -72      20    2 b/r  -        "             3,849.56    24.87
271       "    "          Arcadip/Gayls 2nd B/P       10 -  8 -72      20    2 b/r       "                 4,075.75    26.33
292       "    n          Coleraine 2nd B/P           10 -  1 -73      20    2 b/r                         3,000        25.57
282      Portland         Buff Bay - 4th B/P           9 - 11 -72      10    2 b/r                         4,301.21    27.79
289          it           Drapers - 4th B/P            9 -  1 -73      30    2 b/r       "                 4,679.36    30.23
275      St. Ann          Windsor - 3rd B/P            6 -  P -72      30    2 b/r                         3,377        21.82
276            s          Coolshade - 2nd B/P          6 -  9 -72      10    2 b/r                         3,634.57    23.48
265      frelawny         Duanvale - 6th B/P          14 -  7 -72      20    2 b/r       "                 3,734.46    24.12
288         tI            Bounty Hall - 3rd B/P       14 - 12 -72      10    1 b/r   Prefabricated         2,286        14.47
256      St. James        Barrett Town                 7 -  4 -72      40    1 b/r            g            1,424.98      5.98
273       "    "          Dunrfries - 2nd B/P         10 -  8 -72      30    2 b/r            i            3,583.99    23.15
290       "               Pitfour - 6th B/P           19 -  1 -73      20    2 b/r            "            3,200        29.11
291       "               Pitfour                     19 -  1 -73      Dev.
287      Hanover          Haughton Court - 7th B/F  14 - 12 -72         7    2 b/r   Prefabricated         4,017        25.96
274      Westroreland    1ruro (Phase I]])            16 -  8 -72      30    2 b/r                         3,495.80    22.58
251      St. Elizabeth   Lower Works                  12 -  6 -72      20                                  3,353.69    21.66
2614          ,, Hanta  rmiz - 3re P/P                12 -  7 -72      40    2 b/r   Prefabricated         3,308        21.37
266                       Lower Norke ith Sa.ha 1p       -  7 -72      50                                  3,593        23.22
February 20, 1 S774



ANNEX 2
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                 PFae 16
Ministry of Housing Budget, 1970-71 to 1972-73
(in thousands of Jamaican Dollars)
1970-71      1971-72          1972-73
Title of Head                             Actual  Revised Estimates  Revised
A. General Administration                    337            491            528
B. Government Housing - Planning,
Implementation, Management
General Adainistration                 40              45             46
Sociological awveys and                12              12             19
Investigations
Plarming & Design                     123             125            163
Construction & Maintenance             296            379            420
Workshop                               80             104            103
Deficit Grant to Housing Fund       1 ,220            166              1
Management of Housing Estates          174            201            221
Legal Services                          63             79'            95
Surveys to Determine Titles             9              10              8
TOTAL B                        2,017           1,121          1,076
C. Private Housing - Promotion
Inspection and Regulation
Inspection and Mortgage Insurance
Law                                  42              48             48
Rent Assessment Boards /1               18             25
TOTAL C                           60              73             48
D. Stores                                    216            186            199
E. Regulation of Pablic Utilities --
Public Utilities CoImDission             719            872             _
Licensing Authority, Public
Passenger Transport Boards of
Control, Regulations of Electrical
Services, Rural Electrification,
Jamaica Railway Corporation
GROSS TOTAL                    3,349           2,743          1,851
Appropriation in Aid
(Salaries, Workshop, Motor
Vehicles, etc.)                        87             137            132
NET TOTAL                      3,262           2,606          1,719
/1 Transferred to Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Protection
77 Transferred to Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and Transport.
Source: Estimates of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance.
February 20, 1 97)4



ANNEX 2
Page 17
Table 5
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Housing Fund Estimates, 1973-74
Income and Expenditure Account
(in Jamaican Dollars)
1972-73             1973-74
Revised            EJtimates
Receipts
Interest on Purchase Money                 350,000              400,000
Conlections on Rental Schems               190,000              200,000
Insurance Premia                            38,000               50,000
Bank Interest                                3,000                  500
Miscellaneous                                -                      500
Deficit Grant                                _
Total Receipts                    581,000             651,000
ElDenditure
Maintenance Charges:
Rental Schemes                           378,000              347,030
Insurance                                 44,o000              50,000
Miscellaneous                            100,000              158,000
National Insurance                         4,000                4,500
Direct Subsidies                         -                    _
Surplus c/f                           55,000               91,5)0
Total Expenditure                 581 ,000            651,000
Source; Ministry of Housing.
February 20, 1974



ANNEX 2
Page 1 8
Table 6
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Ministry of Housing Summary of Total Expenditure
Classified by Objects
(in Jamaican Dollars)
Classification                            1971-72              1972-73
Revised             Estimates
Personal Emolumnts /1                   1 ,400,950            1,I493,984
Travel Expenses and Subsistence           236,542               182,463
Supplies and Materials                    44,290                33,200
Rental of Property (and Bldgs.)             5,688                 1 ,228
Public Utility Services                    23,456                22,000
Other Operating and Maintenance           166,593               103,000
Services
- rants and Contribution or
Subscriptions                           801,319                 1,000
Awards and Indemnities                     50,200                   200
Equipment                                  16,823                 8,820
Gross Total                         2,745.,861            1 A845,895
Less Appropriations in Aid           137,600                141,600
Net Total                           2,608,261             1,704,295
/1 636 staff for 1971-72, 552 staff for 1972-73.
Source: Ministry of Housing.
February 20, 1974



MINISTRY OF HOUSING - SITES ANDSERVICES IMPLEMENTATION UiD:T
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS, 1974-1984
(in thousands of Jamaican Dollars)
Sources of Funds                            1797T    1975    i97      1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1 981
1. Government Budget Allocations for
operating Expenses                      100      100     200      250      -        -       -       -        -       -
2. ?. ..aents by Project Beneficiaries for:
(a) Downpaymsents /2                     -      300      400     500       -      14144    144     288      288     28c     288
(b) Land  /3                             -        36      814    144      14.4     -        -       -        -       -        -
(c) Infrastructure and lot develop-
ment /A                            -        -       49     116      197     197    3N        540      788     788     788
3. IBRD Loan (Housing Component)            1,500   2,500   2,500  .2,500       -        -                -       -        -       -
14. Goverrunent Contribution to:
(a) Land Acquisition                  1,250       -       -       -        -       -        -       _        _       _        _
(b) Construction Costs                1,500   2,500   2,500   2,500        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Total Sources              4,350   5,436   5,733   6,010      3141    341      487     828   1,076   1,076   1,076
Uses of Funds
1. Operating Expenses (Detailed Engl-
neering, Lot Gavelopment)                75      175     200      225          -        -       -        -           -        -
2. Land Acquisition                        1,250       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
3. Construction Costs  /5                   3,000   5,000   5,000   5,000       -        -       -        -       -        _       _
14. Transfer of Downpayments to Jamaican
Credit Union Leagnie for Construc-
tion Materials Fund                      -       300     400     500           -        -           -        -       -        -
C. Amortization of IBilD Loan  16              -       72     180      290     470      616     B17      990     990      993     989
Total Uses                 4,325   5,547   5,780   6,015      470      616     817      99C     990      993     989
Svrplus (Deficit) at
Year-End                    25    (111)    (47)      (5)   (129)   (275)   (330)   (162)       86       83      87
/1  Reorganization of Ministry should be completed by 1978 and project unit expenses vill be incorporated into Ministry's
buddget and reformulated low-cost housing/sites and services program.
/2  Average downpayment of J$200 per lot, with downpaynents ranging from J$150 to 250 according to allottees' income groups.
The dcwnpaymeits will be channelled into the construction materials fund to be administered by the Jamaican CredS.t Union
Le-ague.
/3  Land payments avera_.ng J$2.00 per month for the first five years and J$l4.0O per month thereafter.
,/  ..fr.3sLjutu.re an,d iot deveiupnit-nt ,rortgdge payments average u$12.16 per nonth (amortization at 8% over 25 years).
Payment stream asstumes a 10% default rate.
- Sae   -a. 3.30 (3Nw.La-;ry 'ost Table).  These sosts exclude community facilities and industr-es components.
/6  Aortization shows interest to be paid on estimated draw-down of loan during the grace period, and payrments of
principal and interes'c therea.4ter.                                                                                              _
Basic assainption:  1,50(, lots occupied duri:.g 1)7$; 2,0CC Jots in 1976; and the last 2,500 in 1977.
:*'eU rj,, ' (, 1. )7L






JAMAICA
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF HOUSING
MINISTRY OF
HOUSING
SItES AND SERVICES               [
PLANNING & IMPLE-  *hmiuuium.ia.m     PERMANENT SECRETARY
MENTATION LINIT
PROGRAM PLANNING                                                                    FINANCIAL
& IMPLEMENTATION                          DEPARTEN                               ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT                                                 DEPARTMENT
PLANNING               CONSTRUCTION       GOVT. HOUSING     OTHER HOUSING         STATISTICAL        PERSONNEL        FINANCIAL ADMIN.
& D E SI G N& M A I N E N A N C ES H E M E S &S C H E M E S   &   D I V I&   E S T A T E S   A N D   A C C O U N T S
DIVISION                 DIVISION           PROJECTS          PROJECTS             D._ _O             DIVISION       _    DIVISION
E G             X k                           1                                                    . LAND
TTECTURE        SURVEY          SURVE
SECTION        SECtIONSETO
W SO      <SAC AREA        EASTERN         WESTERN                            ACCOUNTS        INTERNAL          STORES
SECTION                          AREA            AREA                              SECTION   | AUDIT SECTION        SECTION
World Bank-8034






ANNEX 3
Page 1
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVTCES PROJECT
SITE PLANS
1.        The criteria used in planning sites and services alkeas can broadly
be categorized into social and engineering criteria. The social criteria
include:
(a)  adequate provision of community facilities, i.e., schools,
clinics, community centers, markets, police posts, and
daycare centers;
(b)  location of community facilities to offer convenient and
safe access to the entire community;
(c) grouping of these facilities in a way to form an attractive
--and viable nucleus for community activities and to permit
multiple uses of building and play areas;
(d) provision of a safe and convenient system of footpaths
linking plots to bus lines, play areas and community
facilities;
(e) provision of vehicular circulation within the area which
allows access to residential, commercial and public areas
and provides easy flow of traffic while protecting the
neighborh6ods from through traffic;
(f) provision of limited car park spaces and garbage pick-up;
and                                                0
.(g) location of housing areas to minimize disturbances such as
traffic noises, industrial activities and natural nuisances.
The engineering criteria include: adequate provision of roads, footpaths,
storm water drainage, water supply, fire hydrants, sewerage, power supply
and street lighting.
2.        This annex refers to the three sites to be constructed in the
first year for which site plans have been prepared. Site plans for the
remaining sites are conceptually similar. The layout plans for two of the
first-year sites (Marcus Garvey and Spanish Town) are shown in Map 3 and 4.
The land use profiles for each site are shown in Table 1. About 50-52% of
the site area is devoted to lots, 20% to roads and circulation, 4-10% to
open space, 8-13% to community facilities and sportsgrounds, and 5-13% to
the industrial component of the project. The land use allocations to open
space, community facilities and industry vary from site to site depending
upon the availability of similar facilities in the neighborhoods surrounding
the project sites, e.g. in the Spanish Town site no allocation to sports-
ground is shown because the Ministry of Youth and Community Development



ANNEX 3
Page 2
will be constructing a youth center and sportsground on land adjacent to
the sites and services land. Although th.ire are no universally applicable
design standards for site development, particularly low-cost,projects, good
design practice indicates that 50-60%o of site area should be comprised of
lots with the remainder split between circulation and community facilities.
3.        The gross densities 1/ in the project are fairly high -- 22 lots/
acre on the average and the average lot size is 1,008 sq ft or 94 m2. The
lot size, although small, 2/ is appropriate in the context of Jamaica where
land is a scarce, high priced resource.  Net density (excluding land devoted
to circu'lation, community facilities, industries, etc.) is about 31 lots/
acre. This yields about 186 persons per acre or 460 persons per hectare.
Densities in Kingston's downtown, dilapidated tenements are considerably
higher, approaching 1,000 persons/ha 3/ because of small rental room units and
a lack of community facilities and open space.
4.        Table 2 summarizes the respective characteristics of the first-year
sites: Marcus Garvey, Complands and Spanish Town. All three sites are well
located with respect to transport and employment linkages and the terrain is
generally good although Marcus Garvey does require substantial landfill.
Most of this is being provided under the public works Impact Program without
cost to the project. Camplands and Marcus Garvey have no particular trunk
infrastructure constraints and the Spanish Town site will be able to hook
into an oxidation pond to be financed under the project. The Bank is assisting
the National Water Authority in designing the oxidation pond.
5.        The plot plans incorporate three development options to be provided
under the project (sanitary core materials, built core, and built core plus
shelter room - see details in Annex 4). The layout plan provides for a
clustering of lots into groups of 14-16 in order to avoid a static, barracks-
like appearance. In order to reduce on-lot infrastructure costs, the designs
maximize the number of lots that could be grouped in a configuration of four
sanitary core units back-to-back. In the 3 sites mentioned above, approxi-
mately 75% of lots are grouped in this manner and 20% of the lots have a two
1/   Defined in this instance as Number of lots e.g., in Marcus Garvey
Area of site
(Table 1): 785 lots - 22.4 lots/acre.
35 acres
2/   Compared to 150 m  in Senegal and 110 m2 in Nicaragua.
3/   Survevs by the Ministrv of Housing of Salt Lane community and by the Urban
Development Corporation (UDC) of the area known as Sacred Mile.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
core back-to-back configuration (sketch below). In order to,utilize all
available space, an additional number of lots (5%) have been included vhich
result in a single core pattern:
1 Core             2 Cores             4 Cores
Back-to-Back        Back-to-Baok
Sanitary core
6.        Roughly 40% of lots on each site will have basic services, 40% built
sanitary core units, and 20% built shelters without enclosure in the first year.
The principle adopted was that the most economical design (4 sanitary core units
back-to-back) was first allocated to the lowest level of service (basic services,
core materials) in order to reduce costs to the poorer households. The remainder
of the lots with a 4 back-to-back configuration were then allocated to the
next level of service (built core). The remainder of the built core units
are then comprised of 2 cores back-to-back. Almost all of the highest level
of service (built shelter, no enclosure) will have the 2 core uunits back-to-
back configuration. The self-help component will be progressively increased
by eliminating the Option III in the second year and Options I and II in the
third year.
7.        The type and number of community facilities to be provided in the
first-year sites are listed below. These buildings are to be designed in
consultation with the respective ministries, e.g., Ministry of Education for
schools, and would conform to the existing standard designs.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Cosuwnity Facilities - First-Year Sites
(in number of facilities)
Type               Marcus Garvey    Camplands    $panish Town
Schools
Basic                   1                1
Primary                 1                1
Community Center/
Daycare Center              1                1              1
Health Center                 1                1             -
Trade Training Center         1                              1
Youth Center                 -
Market                     .1                 1              1
Police Post                   1                1             1
Details of the facilities are as follows:
A.  Marcus Garvey
(i) Schools: Provision has been made for a basic school and
a 20-classroom primary school which shares playing fields
with the community center. A secondary school is not
included because of the nearby access to the Tivoli Gardens
Comprehensive School and other schools in adjoinl*g areas.
(ii) A Community Center will be built adjacent to the major
open space and will serve as a general meeting hall.
(iii) Health Center: The Ministry of Health has agreed to the
construction and staffing of a health center which will
be located adjacent to the community center. This health
center will also serve neighboring communities.
(iv) Trade Training Center: The Ministry of Labor has .agreed to
the construction and staffing of a trade tra±aiig  cter
adjacent to the Industrial Site.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(v) Police Post: Because of the high crime situation
Prevailing throughout Kingston, a small police post
will be constructed adjacent to the community center.
B. Camplands
8.        Similar community facilities will be provided.  The primary school
will have 10 classrooms.
C. Spanish Town
9.        Again, similar facilities will be provided.  The primary school will
have 15 classrooms. A vouth center will be included in the project. A
Jamaican cigarette manufacturer (Carreras, subsidiary of the international
corporation) has offered to donate J$100,000 as an act of "social ^onscience"
towards the construction of buildings or staffing of the youth center. Since
the Bank loan/government contribution will cover the infrastructure and
building costs of tht youth center, the Government has persuaded the Carreras
Company to make the J$100,000 available for the recurrent cost of staffing
the youth center.
10.       The community facilities to be provided in the second and third
year sites will be similar to the above ones although slight variations might
occur once the detailed designs and more accurate surveys of existing surround-
ing facilities are at hand.
11.       Because Spanish Town has no sewerage system, a sewage disposal plant
will be constructed to serve the sites and services area. Initially, a package
treatment plant was proposed by the Ministry.  At the suggestions of the Bank
mission, the Government is now planning an oxidation pond as an alternative
solution. Such waste stabilization ponds are simple to build and maintain,
require no electrical power, produce a high quality effluent even under shock
loads and are cheaper in the long run. The high cost of land required is off-
set by the maintenance cost of the package plant. A feasibility study and
preliminary design criteria of oxidation ponds for Spanish Town site has been
prepared by a Bank consultant for the Government. The proposed system will
be a six-acre water surface, ten-acre total area, advanced series ponding
system consisting of two 2-acre and two 1-acre ponds in series. The ponds
will be 10 ft deep plus 2 ft of freeboard. Treatment within the ponds will
be by sedimentation, methane fermentation and photosynthetic oxidation.
About 20% of the water is expected to evaporate and percolate into the ground.
The remaining 80% of water which overflows will be of sufficiently good quality
for irrigation. The system will be most economical if it can be built in an
abandoned quarry across the Rio Cobre, east of the project; a river crossing
will be essential to convey waste to the site.






JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
LAND USE PROFILES - YEAR 1 SITES
February 20, 1 974
Marcus Garvey             Camplands             Spanish Town
Kingston                 Kingston
AcrAcre s                                      Acres
1.  Area of site                                          35.0    100.0            24.0   100.0          25.0     100.0
2. Net residential area (lots only)                       18.3      52.3           12.1      50.5        13.1      52.4
3. Community facilities, schools, clinics, etc.            2.4       6.9            0.9       3.8         1.8       7.2
4. Sports grounds                                          2.8       7.9            1.7      7.0           -         -
5_  Open spaces                                            2.1       6.o            2.4     10.0          0.9       3.6
6.  Roads                                                  3.1       8.8            2.2       9.2         2.4       9.5
7. Footpaths and parking                                   4.3      12.3            2.2       9.2         2.9      11.6
8. Industrial area                                         2.0       5.8            1.8      7.4          3.2      12.7
9. Others (gulley, pumping stations, etc.)                  -         -             0.7      2.9          0.7       3.0
10.  Number of lots                                              785                     513                   560
11.  Gross density (lots/acre)                                  22.8                    21.4                  22.4
12. Net density (lots/acre)                                     30.52                   31.0                  32.0
13.  Site population (6 persons/lot)                         4,710                   3,078                 3,360
14. Gross population density (persons/acre)                    133                      128                  134.4
15. Primary school population                                1,046                     686                   746
16. Secondary school population                                523                      342                  373
17. Basic school population                                    697                      456                  479
l<.  Total school age population                             2,266                   1,482                1 ,616



JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
SITE CHARACTERISTICS - FIRST YEAR SITES
Characteristic                                     Marcus Garvey                          Camplands                               Spanish Town
1.  Land Status                              JIDC and Commissioner of lands          Ministry of Defense will                Ministry of Youth and Community
will transfer land to the               transfer the site to                   Development will transfer the
Ministry of Housing.                    Ministry of Housing                    site to the Ministry of Housing
2.  Number of Acres                                    35                                   24                                           25
3.  Terrain                                  Fair -                                  Good -                                  Good -
Flat but requires average landfill    Flat, no landfill required               Flat, no landfill required
of 2.5 feet in depth
4.  Employment                               Downtown, docks and Industrial          Vptown  employment close                Site is within a mile of
Linkages                               estate at Newport West are all          at Crossroads, Mountain                Twickenham Park industrial estate
within a lJ mile radius of the          View Avenue                            and new industrial area south of
site                                                                           Spanish Town
5.  Transport                                A number of bus routes run              Bus Routes #27 and 67 pass              Spanish Town has no municipal
Linkages                               along Marcus Garvey Drive to            the site.  Service is                  bus system.  However, frequert
aInd from city center                   frequent                               inter-urban buses pass the site
6.  iccess                                   There is a 40 foot road along west    Good road access - Mountain               Kingston - Spanish Town- May Pen
Roads                                  corner of Site and Marcus               View Avenue abuts site                 Highway abuts site
Garvey Drive abuts southern
boundary of site
'7.  Trunk Infrastructure -                  16"  0 transmission main along           10" 0 transmission main along          12" 0 main along Bourkes Road.
Water Supply                           Marcus Garvey Drive; 6" 0               Mountain View Avenue; 9" 0             Well at Twickenham Park supplies
distribution main along access          take-off along Stadium Road            the main;8" 0 distribution main
road                                                                           will be constructed by National
Water Authority
8.  Trunk Infrastructure -                   10"  0 sewer along Marcus Garvey        Will need to connect site to            No basic sewerage system; will
Sewerage                               Drive will be completed September       the 9"  0 sewer pipe by the            be provided under the project.
1973                                    stadium
9.  Trunk Infrastructure -                   Transmission lines adjacent to           Transmission lines adjacent            Transmission lines available
Electricity                            site                                    to site                                 adjacent to site
February '0O, 19714



JAMAICA -SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                         ANeX 3
PROPOSED HOUSE PLANS                                               page  1
Figure I
GALLEY BASIN
SHOWER           2   SHOWER
- -- -- - KITCHiEN                 KITCHEN ____ _
.  W       BED.1                                           BE IG  N
I   BED.2                                                                i
LIVING       LIVING
Li _ _2    S           +              <       _ f     BED.2       I
PATIO                      PATIO     B           I
2 BEDROOM UNIT                3 BEDROOM UNIT
24'         24'"                                :
ELEVATION
World Bank 81?4






ANNEX 4
Page 1
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
DESIGN STANDARDS AND COST ESTIMATES
Infrastructure Standards
1.        In designing the infrastructure, the following standards were adopt-
ed after considering the requirements of the sites and services project as
well as prevailing standards in Jamaica.
A.   Roads
2.        Each site will have a network of main, secondary and pedestrian
roads as described below:
(M) Main Roads will serve as collector roads carrying bus
traffic and will have on overall reservation of 40 ft.
The main road is designed to have a minimum 9 inch thick-
ness of marl (crushed limestone) base conforming to
KSAC standards. The carriageway will be 20 ft wide and
would consist of asphaltic concrete, 1-1/2 inch thickness.
A pedestrian sidewalk 5 ft wide with spray and chip
surface will by provided on either side of the carriage-
way. The estimated unit cost of the main road is J$ 15.68
per foot (Table 5). In Marcus Garvey, a main access
road with 24 ft carriageway and 8 ft wide sidewalks
will also be constructed at an estimated cost of J$ 17.80
per foot;
(ii) Secondary Roads will have a 30 ft overall reservation
and a carriageway width of 20 ft. The wearing surface
will be a double application of spray and chip on a 6 inch
marl base. Unit cost for this road is estimated at
J$ 11.87 per foot;
(iii)  Footpaths will serve as cluster and plot entrances and
would consist of a typical graded and rolled cross sec-
tion, 10 ft wide at the entrance and increasing to 16 ft
wide within the cluster. The paths will have a 4 ft
median strip of spray and chips on a 4 inch marl base.
These footpaths are wide enough for emergency vehicles.
The estimated unit cost of these paths is J$ 1.48 per
foot.



ANNEM 4
Page 2
B.  Water Supply
3.        Individual water supply connections will be provided to each lot
to serve a water closet, a shower, and with provision for installing a water
tap and sink in the kitchen at a later date. Water service on each lot will
be metered and served by 1/2 inch diameter pipes. The distribution system
will be of 6" and 4" diameter asbestos cement and 3" and 2" diameter
galvanized iron pipes. Fire hydrants will be located and supplied from 4"
diameter pipelines, in accordance with the standards of the Kingston Water
Commissio".  The standards of the Water Commission include a.design 'consuption
of 100 gallons per capita per day which is considered high for the project
sites. In view of the strictly domestic consumption, the type of household,
the size of the lots, and the domestic consumption figures for Kingston
itself, the average consumption figure used in the project to design the
distribution system within the sites is 40 gallons per capita per day. This
project design figure is being discussed with the local authorities Und the
Kingston Water Commission. The total costs per lot of water supply reticulation
(66", 4", 3", and 2" pipe) are estimated at about J$ 100 and willibe paid by
the project. The water supply cost at other sites varies slightly due to
small differences in layout, number of lots, and site conditions.
C.   Sewerage
4.        All lots'will have individual sanitary units and sewerage facilities.
The sewerage system is based on an estimated average daily flow of 40 gallons
per capita per day with a peak of 100 gallons per capita per day. Asbestos
cement pipes of sizes 8" dimeter for the mains, 6" diameter for laterals from
the cluster to the mains, and 4" diameter from the lots to the laterals will be
used. The heavy duty manholes are the precast type and the shallow manholes
are,the in situ concrete type. Maximum spacing between manholes is kept at
300 ft, and minimum depth to top of pipes laid in the roadway is 5 ft. The
overall sewerage specifications conform to the Water Commission standards.
The on-site infrastructure cost per plot for the sewerage at Marcus Garvey
site are estimated at J$ 170 (Table 2).
D.   Drainage
5.        The design criteria for surface water drainage is based on a 10-
year storm  intensity of 4 inches/hour.  The surface roads will be sloped
and curbed to carry the surface run-off using gulleys and piped drainage
in passages. In other areas open channels will be used. The surface water
drainage is estimated to cost J$ 120 per lot at Marcus Garvey (Table 2) of
which 82% will be charged to households, as in the case of roads, since there
are other users benefiting directly from these infrastructure components
(para 11 below).



ANNEX 4
Page 3
E.   Electricity
6.        Each lot will be provided with a metered electric connection.  Design
is based on main poles and distribution lines along either sidewalk of the main
roadways and a distribution line and a pole within each cluster. Each pole
within a cluster will have a light, and the street lights along the main road-
ways will be staggered. The estimated cost of electric distribution system at
Marcus Garvey site is about J$ 120 per lot, which will be borne by the Jamaica
Public Service Company and recovered through utility rates.
F.   Site Preparation
7.        Site preparation involves topographic works and earthworks.  Topo-
graphic costs are relatively small as extensive topographic maps on various
scales are already available for most sites. A detailed topographic survey
will, however, be required prior to the time of construction. The volume of
earthwork required on a site depends on the terrain, soil condition and ground
water table. In the case of the Marcus Garvey and Hunts Bay sites, extensive
earthfilling will be required due to low ground levels and marshy conditions.
Nearly two-thirds of the Marcus Garvey site will require an average fill of
2.5 ft at an estimated cost of J$ 2.6 per cubic yard or J$ 290 por lot with
J$ 238 attributable to households. Although this figure is included in the
cost estimates, some free landfill is currently being supplied since the
Ministry of Works has designated this site a priority landfill area under
the public works "impact" program at the request of the Minister of Housing.
Lot Development Standards
8.        Each lot will be provided with basic lot services consisting of
water connections to w.c., shower and gulley basin, sewerage and waste water
drains, electric connection with a box and dividing wall or walls depending
on the core configuration. In order to accommodate different income levels
up to the J$1,500 per annum household income range, three options uf sanitary
core and shelter units will be provided:
Option I in which the basic lot services will be provided and
the lot owner will be given a construction materials loan
(J$ 620) for building his sanitary core, shelter and en-
closure. The owner is expected to build the house through
self-help or hired labor. Total lot development cost of
this option is estimated at J$ 1,110 as shown in Figure 1 of
the main report.
Option II in which in addition to the basic services (cost of
J$ 490), the sanitary core will be completed at an additional
cost of J$ 380, yielding a total cost of J$ 870. The costs
of the various items provided in the basic services and
core unit is detailed in Table 6. The lot owner will be
eligible for a material loan of J$ 490 for the shelter and
enclosure construction which will be built by self-help
or sub-contracted by the allottee. Total estimated cost
of this option is J$ 1,360 (Figure 1).



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Option III in which the owner wlll get basic lot services along
with a completed core and shelter at cost of 3$ 490.
The plot owner will also be eligible for material loan of
J$ 250 to build the enclosure. Total cost of this option is
estimated at J$ 1,740 (Figure 1). Additional materials
loans for first, second and third bedrooms will also
be available up to a total of J$ 400 from the Credit
Union.
9.        The on-lot servicing costs, i.e. water, sewerage and power connec-
tions and dividing walls ar  tabulated below.  Consultants are naw reviewing
the layout and cost estimates for the water and sewer pipe installations.
On-LQt Basic Seivrces
(in J=aican Dollars)
I Core         2 Cores       4 Cores
Item                            unit           Units         Units
Foundation                        36              31           28
Dividing Wall                    300             179          1S8
Water                             23              23           23
Drainage in Core                  90              77           83
Drainage Core to Sever           116             60            30
Electricity                       70              70           70
Sub-total                   635            440           392
Prelisuiuarie and
Contingencies - 25Z            159             110           98
TOTAL                       795            550           490
Cost Et¢imates
10.       A summary table of cost estimates for the 6,000 serviced lots is
shown in Table 1. The cost estimates are based on detailed engineering for
sites in the first-year program, i.e. Marcus Garvey, Camplands and Spanish
Town (total of 1,858 lots), which were used as the basis for projecting the
costs of the second and third year program. The cost per acre for the three
sites varies only slightly, although each site has different features, problem,
i.e. Marcus Garvey requires extensive land fill due to low, marshy ground;
Spanish Town would require a sewage oxidation pond; and Campiands site requires
a sewage pumping station., The cost estimates for second and third year sites
include an additional 15% and 40% contingencies respectively for labor and
material increases.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
11.       The on-site infrastructure costs for the first-year sites are shown
in Tables 2-4. The allocation of costs to residential, industrial and community
facilities based on the following criteria are also shown in these tables.
All on-site infrastructure costs are allocated to households, industries and
community facilities. The community facilities are allocated a share in pro-
portion to their area (7% at Marcus Garvey). The industries are charged twice
the percentage area and the households are to pay the rest. Thus, in case of
Marcus Garvey, the residents will be charged 82% of the on-site infrastructure
costs. Unit infrastructure costs/lot are estimated at J$ 920 for Yarcus Garvey,
J$ 790 for Camplands and J$ 885 for Spanish Town, or about J$ 865/]ot on the
average. The detailed breakdown of the costs and quantities for various in-
frastructure components for the Marcus Garvey site is shown in Table 5. De-
tailed figures are available for the Camplands and Spanish Town sites but are
not shown since there are no significant differences in the costs due to
similar layouts and unit prices. The breakdown of sanitary core ccsts for
1, 2, and 4 core configuration is tabulated in Table 6. The capital costs
of the community facilities for all sites are given in Table 7.






JAMAICA
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY COST ESTI4ATES
(in thousands of Jamaican Dollars)
Site      Number        Infra-                    Community
Year      Site              City       Area         of         structure     On-Lot      Facilities      Industries    Land   Material   Technical Assis-    Total
(Acres)     Lots         Cost A       Cost A        Cost A          Cost         Cost    Fund       tance, Training
and Monitoring
1st     Marcus Garvey   Kingston          35        785         721           1,100         623                         875
Camplands       Kingston         24         455        360              623         286                        530                 40 (Training)
Prison Farm      Spanish Town    25         558        493              763         613                        185                280 (T.A.)
Sub-total                               1,7         1577             2,46                     1,T22         1,590      4    00 110 (Consultants)
Cockburn Pen    Kingston   (Squatter Upgrading)        202                           72
Canterbury      Mont. Bay  (               "    )      -                             92
1st Year Total                 84      1,798       1,776            2,48K       1,686                      1,590        400    430                     8,368
2nd     Hunts Bay        Kingston         75      1,500       1,645           2,021         991                         950               150 (Monitoring)
Catherine Hall  Mont. Bay        30         660        724              959         608                        900                 25 (Training)
Bushy Park      May Pen          30         400        438              569         597                         125               150 (T.A.)
Sub-total                      135      2,560       2,807            3,549       2,201                      1,975        750    100 (Consultants)
Drewsland       Kingston   (Squatter Upgrading)        293                          155
2nd Year Total                 135       2,560      3,100            3,549       2,351                      1,975        750    425                    12,150
3rd     Hunts Bay        Kingston         55      1,200       1,473           1,750         648                         750               150 (Monitoring)
Bushy Park      May Pen          30         442        540              625         420                         125        _       15 (Training)
Sub-total                       85      1,642       2,013            2,375       1,060                         875       600      90 (T.A.)
Drewsland       Kingston   (Squatter Upgrading)        311                          145
3rd Year Total                  85       1,642      2,324            2,375       1,213                         875       600    255                      7,642
TOTAL                           304       6,ooo      7,200            8,410       5,250          3,550 2      4,440      1,750  1,110                    31,710
c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                 -
/    Includes contingencies
2 The industrial areas for the first-year sites have been allocated; the exact location and timing of individual
projects will be determined at the time of approval of each sub-component
February 20. 1974
HIal



ANN1C 24
Page 7
Table 2
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
MARCUS GARVEY SITE
INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS KOR 785 LOTS
(in Jamaican Dollars)
Residential     Industrial       Cozmznnity
Total         Cost           Cost              Cost
Item                   Cost          (82%)           11% /1           (7.0%) /2
1.  Roads              76,663       62,864          8,2433            5,b66
2.  Water Supply       77,353       63,429          8,509             5,415
3.  Sewerage          133,706      109,639         14,708             9,359
4. Drainage             93,918      77,012          10,331            0,574
5. Landfill           195,020      159,916         21,452            13.6b52
Sub-total       576,660     472,861          63,2433           40.366
6.  Contingencies
Physical @ t5%    86,500       70,930          9,515             6,,055
Price escalation
@ 10%    57,665      47,285           6,343            4,036
TOTAL           720,825      591,076         79,291            50,457
Cost/plot           920          750
/1  2 times the percentage Industrial area, i.e., 2 x 5.575 a 11%
/2  Percentage Community facilities area:  6.97%   7.0%
February 20, 1974



ANNm= 4
page 87
Table 3
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
CAMPLANDS SITE
INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS FOR 455 LOTS
Residential        Industrial       Oommunity
Total          Cost               Cost              Cost
Item                   Cost          81.25%             15% /1           3.75%  /2
1.  Roads             60,276         48,974             9,041            2,261
2.   Water Supply     59,522 /3      48,362             8,928            2,232
3.   Sewerage        123,136        100,048            18,470            4,618
4.  Drainage          45,004         36,566             6,751            1,686
Sub-total       287,938        233,950           43,190            10,797
5.  Contingencies
Physical @ 15% 43,190          35,093            6,479             1,619
Price escalation
@ 10%  28,795         23,395            4,319             1,080
TOTAL           359,923        292,438            53,988           13,496
cost/plot           790            640
/1  Two times the percentage industrial area, i.e., 2 x 7.48% = 15%
/2 Community facilities area: 3.75%
/3 Cost is based on the altemative layout using some 3"0 G.I. pipes within
clusters.
February 20, 1974.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
MNTa
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PP)JECT
SPANISH TOWN SITE
INFRASTIdCTURE COST FOR 58 LOTS
(In Jamaican Dollars)
Residential       Industrial /1       Commnity
Item                  Total          Cost               cost               Cost
Cost          (72.8%)          (20.2%)              (7.0%)
1. Roads              65,957       48,017             13,323              4,617
2. Water Supply       79,600       57,949            16,079               5,572
3. Sewerage          198,860/2   1i44,770            40,170              13,920
4. Drainage           50,000       36,400             10,100              3,500
Sub-total         394,417      287,136             79,672             27,609
X. Contingencies
Pbysical @ 15%    59,162       43,070            11,951               4,141
Price esc;alation
@ 10%    39,442       28,714             7,967               2,761
TOTAL             493,021      358,920            99,590              34,511
Cost/plot             885          645
h   2 tines the percentage industrial area.
/2 Included $120,060 as cost of oxidation pond at best location
February 20, 1974



Page U1
Table 5
(cont'd)
Unit   Total
CoEponent               Specifications                     Quantity    Cost   Cost
_(J$)   (J$)
3. Sewerage
a.  Pipes /1        8" 0 A.C.                           4,005 LF    9.93   39,755
b.  Pipes           6" i A.C.                           4,345 LF    6.90   29,998
c.  Laterals        4" $ A.C. (including fillings)    2,000 LF    8.21   16,420
d.  Manholes        4' x 4 ' x 8' deep                     34 No  907.0    30,830
e.  Manholes        2.5' x 2.5' x 8'                        8 No  500.0      4,000
f.  Miscellaneous   Rodding eyes, connections, etc.   (lnump sum)          12,703
Sub-total       133,706
4. Drainage
a.  Drains          2' 1  Concrete pipes                1,885 LF    12.5   23,562
b.  Drains          3' 1  Conrete pipes                 2,535 LF    18.0   45,630
c.  Drains          41 i Concrete pipes                    60 LF    23.0    1,380
d.  Manholes                                               17 No   562.5    9,562
e.  Inlets                                                 16 No   750.0   12,000
f.  Connections, etc.                                   (lump sua)           1,784
Sub-total        93,918
5. Landfill
a.  Fill                                               70,200 Cy     2.60 182,520
b.  Site clearance and grading                          (lump sum)         12,500
TOTAL           576,66o
6. Contingencies
a.  Physical   @ 15%                                                       86,500
b.  Price escalation ' 15%                                                  57,665
TOTAL           720,825
/1 Cost of pipes includes excavation, backfilling and testing.
February 20, 1974



ANNEX 4
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                Page l5
Table 5
COST BREAKDOWN FOR INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENTS AT MARCUS GARVEY
(in Jamaican Dbllars)
Unit   Total
Component               Specifications                     Quantity      Cost  Cost
;  _   _-                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(J$)   (J$)
1. Roads
a.  Access Road      40' reservation, 8' side walks,    246 LF    17.80    4,379
24' carriageway constructed of
asphaltic concrete on 9"i marl.
b.  Main Road        40' reservation, 5' side walks,  1,060 LF    15.68   16,625
20' carriageway constructed of
.asphaltic concrete on 9" marl.
c.  Secondary Road  30' reservation, 5' side walks,  2,565 LF    11.87   30,462
20' carriageway of spray and
chip on 6" marl.
d.  Pbestrian        10' wide, 4' walkway with spray  9,129 LF       1.48   13,477
Roads         and chips on 4" marl.
e.  Parking Areas   47' x 36'; spray and chips          3,685 SY     3.02   11,720
surface on 4" marl.
Sub total          76,663
2. Water Supply
a.  Pipes  /1        6": 0 A.C.                        4,246 LF      5.30   22,504
b.  Pipes            4" O A.C.                          3,863 LF     4.50   17,384
c.  Pipes            3" $ G.I.                          2,026 IF     2.75    5,571
d.  Hydrants                                               23 No   350.0      8,050
e.  Fittings         Valves, bends, tees, etc.          (lump sum)           11,844
f.  Connections      Service connections to lots        (lump sum)           12,000
Sub total          77,353
/1 Cost of pipes includes excavation, backfilling and testing.
February 20, 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1 2
Table 6
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
B1ZAKD0WN OF SANITARY CORE COSTS
(In Jamaican f1,ars)
1 Core             2 Core            4 Core
Element             ~~~Unit             Unit              Unit
Floor Slab                26.0                  26.0            26.0
Foundatlons               35.0                  32.0            31.0
Structures               286.0                241.0            221.0
Roof                      80.0                 65.0             50.0
Doors                     30.0                 30.0             30.0
Sanitary Fittings         73.0                 73.0             73.0
Cold Water                53.0                 53.0             53.0
Electric Installation   100.0                  100.0           100.0
Drain Core               130.0                 77.0             81.0
Drain Core to Sewer      163.0                 63.0             30.0
Sub-total            976.0                760.0           695.o
Preliminaries and
Contingencies Q25%    244.0                 190.0            175.0
TOTAL COST         1,220.0                950.0           870.0
:-
/1 Including on-lot services oonts.
February 20, 1974






ANNEX 4
Page 113
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                   Table 7a
CAPITAL COST OF COMMUNITY FACILIT;ES
(in Jamaican Dollars)
Year 1
Site            Facility                   Number   Area    Cost        Sub-totals
S.F.
Marcus Garvey   Basic School - 500 places     1      7,975    71,770
785 lots        20 Classrx. Primary School    1              240,000
Health Center                 1     1 ,725    26,o40
Trade Training Center         1             150,000
Cormmunity Center             1     2,905    31M,860
Marekt Shed                   1     1,625    11,780
Police Post                   1               6,900      541,350
Camplands       Basic School - 300 places     1     5,210    49,500
455 lots        10 Classrm. Primary School    1             120,000
Health Center                 1     1 ,725    26,0o40
Community Center              1     2,905    34,860
Market Shed                   1     1,625    11,780
Police Post                   1               6,900       249,070
Spanish Town    Basic School - 300 places     1    5,210    49,500
558 lots        15 Classrm.Primary School     1             180,000
Trade Training Center         1             150,000
Community Center              1     2,905    34,860
Market Shed                   1     1,625    11,780
Police Post                   1               6,900
Youth Center                  1             100,000      533,036
Cockburn Pen    Basic School - 150 places     1      2,945    27,978
(Upgrading)    Community Center               1     2,905    34,860       62,838
Canterbury      Basic School - 150 places     1     2,945    27,978
(Upgrading)     Cmmunity Center               1     2,905    34,860
Footbridge                    1              17,250       80,088
TOTAL                                    1,1466,394
Physical Contingencies @15%                219,959
TOTAL                                    1,686,353
February 20, 1974



ANNEXC 4
Page) 1 4
Table 7b
JAMAICA SIT  AND SERVICES PPDJECT
CAPITAL COST OF COMMUITY FACILITIES
(In Jamaican DDIlars)
Year 2
Area
Site                    Facility               Number S.F.        Cost    Sub-totals
Hunts Bay           Basic School - 500 places   2      15,950   143,550
1,500 lots           15 Classrm. Primary School 2               36,000
Health Center               2     3,450    52,080
Trade Training Center       1              150,000
Market Shed                 1     1,625    11,780
Community Center            1      2,905    34,860
Police Post                 2               13,800      766,070
Catherine Hal       Basic School - 400 places   1      6,000    58,440
Montego Bay          15 Classrm. Primary School  1              180,000
660 lots             Health Center               1      1,725    26,040
Trade Training Center      1              150,000
Market Shed                 1      1,625    11,780
Commmnity Center            1     2,905    34,860
Police Post                 1               6,900      468,020
Bushy Park          Basic School - 300 places   1       5,210    49,500
May Pen              15 Classrm. Primary School 1              180,000
400 lots             Health Center               1      1,725    26,040
Trade Training Center       1             150,00
Market Shed                1      1,625    11,780
Cormmmity Center           1      2,905    34,860
Police Post                 1               6,900      459,080
Drewasland          Basic School - 400 places   1      .6,493    58,435
(Upgradfing)        Health Center               1      1,725   26,040
Cormunity Center           1      2,905    34,860      119,335
TOTAL                                               1,812,505
Physical contingencies @ 15%                          271,875
Price escalation @ 15%                                271,875
TOTAL                                              2,356, 255
February 20, 1974.



ANNEX 4
Page 1,
Table 7c
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
CAPITAL COST OF COMMUNITY FACIIITIES
(in Jamaican Dollars)
Year 3
Area
Site            Facility                   Number    S*F.      Cost    Sub-totals
Hunts Bay       Basic Schools - 300 places    2     10,420     98,990
1 ,200 lots     20 Classrm. Primary School    1     23,050    240,000
Health Center                 1      1 ,725    26,0o40
Market Shed                   1      1,625     11,781
Cozmmunity Center             1      2,905     34,860
Police Post                   1                 6,900    418,571
Bushy Park      Basic School - 300 places     1      5,210     49,945
442 lots        15 Classrm. Primary School    1                180,000
CoGmity Center                1      2,905     34,860
Police Post                   1                 6,900    271,255
Drewsland       Basic School - 400 places     1      6,493      58,437
(Upgradi.ng)    Community Center              1      2,905     34,860      93,297
TOTAL                                   783,123
Physical contingencies @ 15%            117,468
Price Escalation @40%                   313,249
TOTAL                                 1 ,213,840
February 20, 197L4



ANNEX 4
Page 1 6
Table8
JAMAICA SITES AND StVICE; PEDJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DIMBURSEMPET
(in thousanxds of US$)
Cumulative        Cunulative
Quar:ter        Quarter 13nding      AnDunt       Disbursement        %
Disbursement
1             June 30                  400           400               2.7
2             Sept. 30                 650         1,050               7.0
3             Dec. 31                  975         2,025              13.5
4             March 31, 1975          1,275         3,300             22.0
5             June 30                 1,1425       4,725             31.5
6             Sept. 30                  975        5,700             38.0
7            Dec. 31                  1,575        7,275             48.5
8            March 31, 1976           1,875        9,150             61.0
9             June 30                 1,125        10,275            68.5
10            Sept. 30                  825        11,100             74.0
11           Dec. 31                    750        11,850             79.0
12           March 31, 1977            600        12,450             83,0
13           June 30                   675        13,125             87.5
14            Sept. 20                 525        13,650             91.0
15           Dec. 31                   450        14,100             94.0
16           March 31, 1978            450        14,550             97.0
17           June 30, 1978             450        15,ooo            100.0
February 20, 1974



JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
IhPLEFENTATION SCHEDULE
1974l                1975                 1976                  1977
2              3    4 _1  1 2    3    42  1    2    3         1    2  1 3       L
're derS       fonE =-uzion
Camplar.ds                      ,d_-_    
Tend r       C nstr ctio
Ma;;cus Garvey                         _ K                              _
Tend r       C nstr Lctio
Spnniash Town
Hunts Bay I 
V e ndhet          onst Wucti, n
Bushy Park I                                        -t…
Catherine Hall                               K
Hunts Bay II                                      Tern l    I     Con -
Bushy Park II                                              i
C znstr itio   I
Squatter Upgrading                            .                                r   i4i
ergizatio  Study     IInstructio                                ;
Industri-es                              .                      |                     !    ||
Ministry of Housing                            Study                         Implementati-'
Reorganization Study                          |_                         |    |          |    |
Urban Growth and                                             Stu v
Management Study                                                                    I
Mbn_toring                                                                                             -
Vebrujry 2(, 1 l7;I
-!






ANNEX 5
Page 1
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
INDUSTRIES
Jamaica Industrial.  evelopment Corporation (JITC)
1.        The JIDC was created in 1952 as a statutory board of Government in-
cluded in the portfolio of the Minister of Trade and Industry. It was charged
with the "duty to stimulate, facilitate, and undertake the development of
Industry in Jamaica".  To achieve this, it provides services along the follow-
ing lines: (i) industrial promotion (locally and abroad); (ii) administration
of applications for fiscal incentives; (iii) industrial estates; (iv) indus-
trial consulting; (v) middle management training; (vi) labor training in some
fields; and (vii) some market research. There are about 70 professional staff
working in the Kingston headquarters; this excludes the managements of the
training centers and of the fully-owned subsidiaries, and the JIDC staff re-
siding abroad. The Board of Directors is composed of representatives of in-
dustry and of the Government. An organizational chart is attached to this
Annex.
2.        Industrial promotion is done by a department of about 12 persons,
which makes available to potential Jamaican and foreign investors information
on the industrial environment in Jamaica, such as incentives legislation and
fiscal laws, available industrial estates, market data, cost of labor, ser-
vices, utilities, etc.
3.        Applications for incentives are processed by a division of about
seven persons in the planning and research department. Incentives are pro-
vided under two laws: the General Industrial Law and the Export Encouragement
Law. They both provide relief from income tax, tonnage tax and customs duties
for a period of up to ten years (exceptionally 15 years, when approved in-
dustries are located in special development areas of the island). Moreover,
the latter law also provides for the continuous duty-free importation of raw
materials and items for repair and replacement of equipment.
4.        Criteria for incentives allocation are not too explicit and appear
flexible. In general, if some industry is already established in the island
without prior incentives, a new firm in the same sector would not be given
incentives. On the other hand, if the first company in a given industry has
already received some incentives, the second applicant may not necessarily
be given the same favor. In fact, incentives often appear to be granted to
a sole producer in a given industry resulting in oligopolistic practices and
pricing. This incentives program suggests that the Government has not as
yet devised an industrial development strategy on the basis of utilizing
Jamaica's natural resources or its comparative economic advantages. On the



ANNEX 5
Page 2
contrary, the General Industrial Incentives Law seems to have attracted un-
differnetiated captial-intensive industries. Investment costs per job created
amounted to $8,970 in 1971. 1/
5.        To potential entrepreneurs, the JIDC also provides land and factory
buildings. It currently owns about 729 acres from 27 different areas in
Jamaica; three of these areas can be called industrial estates. Land is
leased for a ten-year period, with option to purchase. The same applies to
the construction of a factory building, which is designed according to the
lessee's specifications. The annual rental is calculated from the date of
occupation and amounts to 12.5% of the total cost of factory, land and
finance charges over the construction period (for factory only). Although
this rent may appear to be high, the land is valued at cost and not at
market prices, which is a significant advantage in the Kingston ar6a. Fur-
thermore, finance charges corresponding to the initial purchase of land are
not included. The rent level is currently being revised and will later be
as follows: 6% for the first year, increasing progressively to 12.5% the
fifth year. Utilities are built by the JIDC and turned over to the local
municipalities. The lessee pays corresponding utilities charges as well as
property taxes.
6.        The three largest industrial estates organized by the JIDC are:
(i) the Kingston industrial estate, created in 1957 (about 110 acres), and
now fully occupied; 2/ (ii) the Twickenham Park industrial estate, created
in 1964 (about 15 lots) and also fully occupied (half sold, half leased);
and (iii) the Nanse Pen industrial estate, created in 1970 (for 27 lots) with
about 15 remaining lots still available. Since its creation, the JIDC has
built about 71 factories and 13 extensions.  The building costs are of the
order of J$8-10 per sq ft. Land costs vary from J$0.8-1.0 per sq ft in
the Nanse Pen area up to J$3-4 per sq ft for prime private industrial land
in Kingston.
7.        The JIDC also provides, through a staff of about 40 specialists,
consulting and training services to the industry. Technical assistance,
financial advice and initiation to marketing is offered free to small and
medium-sized enterprises. Seminars are organized on a regular basis, either
at JIDC's headquarters or within the industry. 3/ The JIDC also operates
(either directly or through one of its subsidiaries) three labor-training
schools: one knitting school, one garment manufacturing school and one
Toolmakers' Institute.
1/   Source:  IBRD Economic Report.
2/ Except for a few lots reserved by the Government.
3/   Since 1958, 300 courses have been conducted within the Industry.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
8.        In addition to the above, the JIDC also operates six fully-owned
subsidiaries. 1/ Some were partially state-owned firms which experienced
financial and management problems, and had to be transferred to and fully
purchased by the JIDC. Among these are "Fashion Knits" and "Ariguanabo
Textiles" which will be directly linked with some of the industrial sub-
projects for either provision of raw materials and/or purchase of finished
products. The former, "Fashion Knits", seems to be experiencing financial
difficulties.
9.        JIDC's financial statements for the years 1971 and 1972 (ending
March 31) are given at the end of the annex. It is a public service subsi-
dized by the Government: during the fiscal year ending in 1972, the JIDC
received about J$3.0 million in the form of grants and loans allocated to
either current expenditure or increased capital. It is, therefore, diffi-
cult to assess its financial performance without analyzing the individual
activities in detail. However, some weaknesses are easy to pinpoint: the
current ratio was 0.1 at end of 1972, the fixed assets having increased by
J$5.9 million over the year, while the working capital was decreasing by
J$4.4 million. In other words, fixed assets (land and factories) were
financed with commercial bank overdrafts. The 1973-74 JIDC draft budget
calls on J$900,000 or 50% increase over that of 1972-73, to reach J$2.7
million, which would significantly expand JIDC's role in Jamaica's indus-
trial development. JIDC's attention will particularly focus on the prepara-
tion of agro-industrial feasibility studies to which the Government is as-
.igning first priority.
10.       Although JIDC's financial structure and management cannot be con-
sidered as satisfactory in all respects, this project is not the appropriate
iehicle for attempting a reorganization. JIDC's valuable technical resources
will merely be utilized for the preparation of the sub-projects so as to
fulfill the limited job-creating objectives of the project. The ultimate
responsibility for ensuring that the industries component is executed satis-
factorily will in any case be left to the JDB.
1/   Besides other investments in a number of manufacturing companies.
Total investments in 14 different industrial fields amounted to
J$3.8 million in 1972.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Jamaica DevKelopment Bank (JnB)
11.       The JDB was established in 1969 to replace the Development Finance
Corporation. The JDB is a Government-owned development finance institution
authorized to make loans and to engage in equity participation, loan guaran-
tees, and underwriting. The JDB's initially authorized share capital of
J$10 million has recently been increased to J$20 million, of which J$11.75
million has now been fully paid-in. Subscriptions are on a 60/40 basis be-
tween the Government and the Bank of Jamaica. JDB also gets funds by borrow-
ing from the Government, commercial banks, and external lending agencies.
The JDB presently has a foreign line of credit amounting to J$14.0 million.
The sources of these funds included EXIMBANK with US$3 million, CIDA with
Can$1.3 million, IBRD with US$3.7 million, and IADB with US$6 million. New
credit lines are currently being negotiated with KFW, CIDA, and IADB. Fi-
nancial statements for the years 1970, 1971 and 1972, as well as projections
for 1973 and 1975, are attached to this annex.
12.       A chart of the JDB's organization is also presented at the end of
this annex. The JDB had a staff of about 30 professionals at the end of
1971, and 98 loans, valued at J$8.7 million, were approved during that year.
The sectoral distribution, in terms of amount, was as follows: 43% industry,
36% tourism,. 13% agriculture, and 7% miscellaneous. The main industrial
sectors represented were: printing and allied industries, chemical products,
food products, wood products and furniture. Most of the loans (87%) were
made to expanding businesses. In terms of loan sizes, 38% of their number
were of less than J$50,000 and 23% were between J$50,000 and J$100,000.
13.       In 1972, the JDB approved 123 loans amounting to J$9.8 million.
A total of 46 loans were made to industry, 41 to tourism, 31 to agriculture
and 5 to storage/warehousing. By amount, loans for industry accounted for
50% of approvals, which represents a 15% increase over the previous year.
For 1973, the operations target was said to be set-up at 180 loans. Loan
amounts can vary from J$10,000 to J$500,000, 1/ but the average loan size
for industry in 1972 was J$111,000 (J$42,000 for tourism, J$78,000 for
agriculture, and J$80,000 on the average).
14.       Appraisals are prepared by JDB's projects department, which is
comprised of five project officers and one engineer. The processing of a
loan request generally takes from one to two months, but the appraisal work
involved for simple projects does not exceed one man-week. Most aspects of
project evaluation are reviewed, but emphasis is put on market and management
considerations. These appear to generally be the weakest points of most
proposals, together with the fact that most companies are undercapitalized.
Companies often have a family ownership, and shares are not traded. It has
not been JDB's policy to take equity shares when a loan was granted to a
1/   Loans of less than J$10,000 are presently handled by the Jamaican Small
Businesses Loan Board, another state-owned agency.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
company. As compared with 176 active loan accounts at the end of 1972, the
JDB only had eight equity investments 1/ totalling J$487,000 (this excludes
J$1,301,000 invested in subsidiaries).
15.       In 1971, a loan of US$2 million equivalent from IDB's ordinary
capital resources, and a loan of J$4 million equivalent from IDB's rund for
Special Operations were made to the JDB. Both loans were to be amortized
over 18 years with 3-1/2 years; grace period. The first loan was bearing an
interest of 8%, and the second of 3.5%. Service charge was 3/4 of 1% per
annum, and coumitment fee 1.5% per annum. These two loans were to be epent
mainly against foreign expenditures of new or expansion projects (including
tourist facilities) of small to medium-sized industrial firms. Sub-loans
were to bear an interest rate of 9.5% and of 7% respectively, and amortiza-
tion was to be made over 5 to 8 years, with the exception of factory con-
struction loans (10 years), cottage loans (12 years) and hotel loans (15
years). Grace periods were varying between 1 and 2 years, and were not to
exceed 3 years. A new loan is currently being negotiated between IDB and JDB.
16.       The JDB recently reorganized its handling of small loans.  To de-
crease the amount of staff time required for small projects, it was decided
that loans of up to J$100,000 would be approved only by the Director of
Operations, and loans of up to J$500,000 would be approved by the Managing
Director without reference to the Board of Directors. It is interesting to
note that 6.8% of amounts loaned to the industrial sector was in the form of
loans of under J$50,000; 14% in the form of loans of between J$50,OCO and
J$75,000; and 10.2% in the form of loans of between J$75,000 and J$100,000.
In terms of number of loans, the picture is quite different as the above
three categories respectively comprised 25.5%, 25.5% and 13.7% of total loans
made to industry.
17.       Furthermore, in order to provide better assistance to small enter-
prises, the JDB started to operate, in the summer of 1973, an affiliate called
"The Development Venture Capital Financing Company" (DVCP). Its role is to
assist and participate in the creation and development of small-scale industries
in Jamaica. The VCF will provide loans of the order of between J$10,000 and
J$60,000 and will also take equity shares. However, it will generally not take
a majority position so as not to have to run the business. This affiliate is
separate from the JDB to allow: (i) independent staff to focus on different
problems, and (ii) separate accounts for higher risk operations. The autho-
rized capital will be J$2 million, and an initial J$0.5 million will first
be paid-in by JDB's shareholders, namely, the Bank of Jamaica and the Govern-
ment of Jamaica.



JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
JIDC ORGANIZATION CHART
Lands and Building Committee
Secretary                                                                            Finance Committee
Incentive Application Committee
|  EecuiveDireco 
Overseas              Planning & Research       -Administration          Development &           Productivity Center           Small Business Development
Promotion/Liaison                                    Accounting                Promotion            & Industrial Services           Financial Adviee
International Operations   Preinvestment studies    Finance,Budget            Public Affairs          Industrial Engineering        Accounting
North America/Europe        Incentives applications  Forecasts                 Statistics             Consultancy & Information   Marketing
Surveys/Statistics       Insurance, Pensions      Laws & regulations      Cost accounting               Department of Small Businesses
Consultants                                       Promotions              Marketing                     Technical Assistance
Food Processing Lab.     Land & Building           Special Projects       Courses, Seminars             Management Training
and Pilot plant        Design/Const. of                                 Training
Experimental kitchen        factories
Library/Information       Industrial Estates
Maintenance/Regulations
Personnel
Staff, etc.
Pr perty
Sales / Purchases/Leases
Legal matters
Transportation
Subsidiaries
Jamaica Jute, Polymarble, Fashion Knits
Dry Dock, Ariguanabo, Craft Market
eobru r'y  ) . O .



ANNEX 5
Page 7
J.I.D.C. INCOME STATEMENTS
(J$ Million)
1971 /1   1972 /1
Income
Factorv rents                                     0.3        0.4
Loan interest                                     0          0.1
Government grant                                  0.9        1.3
Other                                             0.2        0
Sub-Total                         1.4        1.8
Expenditures
Jamaica Office                                    0.8        1.1
Overseas Offices                                  0.2        0.2
Interest on Govt. loans                           0.3        0.4
Factories                                         0.1        0.3
Other                                             0         (0.1)
Adjustment                                        0         (0.1)
Sub-Total                         1.4       1.8
Prof it (Loss )                  (0.0)      (O. O)
/1   As of March 31.



JAMAICA INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BALANCE SHEETS
(J$ Million )
1971 /1     1972  /1                                             1971           1972
Assets                                                         Liabilities and Net Worth
Current Assets                                                 Current Liabilities
Accounts Receivable            0.2          0.b                LT debt maturities  /6           0.2            0.2
Cash                           0.1          0                  Accountspayable  /7               0.3           2.0
Rents and loan maturities      0.2          0.2                Bank overdrafts                  1.0            3.4
Accrued interest                  0.3           0.7
Sub-Total                 o.5         o.6
Sub-Total                  1.8            6.3
Fixed Assets
Long-term Liabilities
Land and Factories  /2         3.7          4,6
Land and Factories  75         1.8          4.0                Commercial Loans  /6             0.5            0.3
Furniture & Equipmeent  /3     0.1          0.2                Government of Jamaica Loan       6.5
Vehicles  /3                   0.1          0.1
Const-iicti7r in progress      1.1          3.2                    Sub-Total                    7.0            7.8
Other                          0            0.2
Net Worth
Sub-Total                 6.9        12.3
Government of Jamaica Grants    0.9             1.1
Subsidiaries and                                              Reserve (Lands)                   1.3            1.8
Other Investments                                           Accumulated Earnings              (0.2)         (0.2)
Jamaica Jute  /4               2.8          2.9                    Sub-Total                     2.0           2.7
Fashion Knits 75               0.3          o.6
Other Investments
(shares and loans)           0.3         04
Sub-Total                 3.)1        3.9
TOTAI                    10,R        16.8                     TOTAL                       1O.P           16.8
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co
/1  As of MarcTh 31.                                            ,' Purchase of -apital $0.02 and loans $0.3 to $0.6
/2  At cost less depreciatior,.                                     In respect of plant and machinery purchased for
/3  At cost wit.nout dprriatin                                      a suonsidiary.
- ,                                                                                --riec ^  ;rad rur.roase.



ANOX -5
Page 9
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
JIB Income Statements
1970       1971       1972
Income
Net Income from development enterprises         0.5        0.5        0.7
Interest on short term investments              0          0.1        0.2
Other                                           0.1.       0           -
Total                     0.6        o.6        0.9
Epnse s
Salaries and allowances                         0.2        0.3        o.4
Other                                           0.3        0.2        0.2
Total                     0.5        0.5        o.6
Net Income  /1                      0.1        0.1        0.3
/1 Before provision for losses.
February 20, 1974



Page 10
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
JDB BALANCE SHEETS
(in J$ Million)
1970       1971        1972
Assets
Investments in development enterprises              7.6        8.8        15.1
Investv.-nt in subsidiary companies  /1             5.6        5.4         5.6
Other investments                                   0.9        1.1          .7
Bank and Cash balances                              1.1        2.0          .9
Accrued interest, receivables, and
prepayments                                    0.4         0.4         0.7
Land, buildings and equipment                       0.3        0.3         0.4
Total                   15.9       18.0         23.4
Capital, Reserves and Liabilities
Share capital paid                                  6.o        8.0        10.0
Reserves and retained earnings                      1.2        0.8         1.2
Government loans /2           .                      .8        4.1         4.2
Other loans  /3                                     4.5        4.8         7.2
Payables and Accruals /4                           0.4         0.3          .8
Total                   15.9       18.0         23.4
/1  Hotel Corporation of Jamaica Ltd., Jamaican Unit Trust Services Ltd.,
and Jamaica Ceramic Industries Ltd. which was to be liquidated by
February, 1972.
/2 Term 15-20 years, interest 4-8%.
/3  Outstanding Dec. 31,1971: Eximbank ($2.5 million), Barclays Bank ($1.5
million), Bank of Nova Scotia ($0.2 million), IDB ($0.1 million),
IBRD ($0.1 million, CIDA ($0.4 million).
/4 Including balance accounts of the wholly-owned "Mortgage Insurance
Fund" and "Mortgage (Government Ouar&nteed Loans) Insurance Reserve
Funds".
February 20, 1974



ANNEX 5
"age 1
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
JDB Projected Balance Sheets
(J$ Million)
1973          1975
Assets
Investnents in developnent enterprises          23.9          13.7
Investments in subsidiary comparies              5.7           5.7
Other investments
Bank and Cash balances                           2.3           3.5
Accrued interests, receivables, and
prepayments                                  0.7            1.1
Land, buildings and equipment                    0.3           0.3
Provision for losses                            (1_3)          (2.4)
Total                         31.6           51.9
Cap2ital, Reserves and Liabilities
Share capital paid                              16.0          20.0
Reserves & retained earnings                     o.6           1.9
Government loans                                4.0            3.3
Other loans                                     10.1          cS.2
Payables & accruals                              0.9           1.5
Total                         31.6           5.9
February 20, 197h



JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
JDB ORGANIZATION CIIART
Chairman
_                        ~~~        ~      ~~~~and,___, 
_Managi-ng R  ector.                                     i
Director of                                                                            Director of
.   Operaticons                                                                   Planning and Research
I iSecretary                               Legal
Administration                        De-partmenat
industrial      Agricultural                         Financial an                      Economics        Special XMarket
Tourism    ,   Projects        Engineering         Controller's    Administra-         Depart   t      Projects        Research
Projects        Iepartment      Department          Department      tion Dept.                 eDepartment    Department
Dept.  2
February 20, 197



ANNEX 6
Page 1
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
PROPERTY TAXATION REFORM
Introduction
1.        Property taxation in Jamaica has been administered in past years
in a manner which has given rise to numerous rate differentials among the
14 parishes and to inequities among landowners. Moreover, taxes on real
property have been low and the major share of the tax burden has been met
by taxing earned income and wholesale and retail trade. The relatively
low property tax has made real estate an attractive speculative investment
which has contributed to the sharp rise in the price of land in aetropolitan
areas of Jamaica, principally Kingston. The inadequacies of the existing
property tax system are recognized by Government, which has implemented a
major property tax reform program. Government's objectives are: (a) to
collect more tax revenue from real property; and (b) to discourage persons
from holding land idle for speculation. It is generally agreed by Govern-
ment officials responsible for urban and regional planning that such reform
is an essential precondition for encouraging orderly growth of urban areas
in Jamaica.
Present Property Tax System
2.        The present system of land taxation in Jamaica provides for three
categories of land tax based on property values, namely, (a) the property
tax levied nationwide; (b) the parish rates levied by the 14 parish councils;
and (c) the local service rates levied within defined areas to finance fire
protection, street lighting, sanitation, sewage disposal and municipal im-
provements. While rate differences could be expected for both the local
parish tax and local service tax, there is also considerable rate variation
in the property tax itself. This is because the tax is assessed on the basis
of unimproved (site) value in some parishes but on capital value (site value
plus improvements) in others and because the base years vary and are outdated;
e.g. in Kingston the base year is 1937. While the Government's Office of
Land Valuation has tried to adjust tax rates among different parishes to com-
pensate for the two valuation bases (unimproved and improved), the tax burden
is still not shared equitably among all landowners in the 14 different parishes.
Moreover, valuation for tax purposes on the unimproved basis is not uniform.
Land in some parishes was last assessed as far back as 1958 while in other
parishes it was assessed this year. Land valued on the capital value basis
was last assessed in 1937. Since the rate of Increase in land prices in many
areas of Jamaica has been quite high, additional inequities have arisen from
this source.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.        Distortions in the property tax have been magnified by the fact
that those parishes still valuing land on the capital value basis encompass
the Kingston/St. Andrews and Montego Bay metropolitan areas. These areas
account for about one-half of total estimated real property values in
Jamaica and are the areas where inflation of land values have been the
greatest and the development of imporvements on the land the most extensive.
In most cases, the assessed valuations based on capital value in the Kingston
and Montego Bay areas bear no relation to market value.
4.        The level and variation in the property tax rate in the 14 parishes
of Jamaica are as follows:
(a) Parishes Assessing on Capital Value Basis -
Kingston and St. Andrews, including Port Royal
(1937 assessment)
Cents
On property the value of which does not exceed $300         30
On property the value of which exceeds $500 -
For every $1 of the first $500 of value                  7.5
it  "i it it of next $500   "                          10
to  it   i  I"   t next $1,000 "   "                   14
11  Ii  "I "i "I next $3,000 "   "                     23
"    "  "  "  next $5,000 "   "                   32
"  "  "  remainder                           45
St. James and Hanover (1937 assessment)
on property the value of which does not exceed $500        30
On property the value of which exceeds $500 -
For every $1 of the first $500 of value                  7.5
jI  tI      n   I! next $500        i f                10
"1  "I  "I "I "I next $1,000 "   "                     14
"f "I "t    " ~  next $3,000 "                    23
"    "    "  "  " next $5,000 "   "                    32
WI  "I  "t "I "f remainder                             45
(b)  Parishes Assessing on Unimproved Value Basis -
Portland, St. Ann, St. Thomas, Trelawny, St. Nary,
St. Elizabeth and St. Catherine (Assessment beginning In 1958)
On property the unimproved value of which does not    .Cents
exceed $2,000                         30
On property the unimproved value of which exceeds
$2,000 -
For every $1 of the first $4,000 of value                3
"I  it  it it "  i next  $6,000  "                      4.75
"t  "I  "I "i if next $10,000  "   I                    6
"I  "I  "f "1 "  remainder                              7



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Manchester, Clarendon and Westmoreland
(1973 assessment)
Cents
On property the unimproved value of which does8
not exceed $2,000                               30
On property the unimproved value of which
exceeds $2,000 -
For every $1 of the first $5,000 of value                 1.50
" I " I   t it next  $5,000  "   "                 2.25
of  if  V to "next $10,000  "   "                  3.50
t"    "  "  "  remainder                           4.75
5.        Land tax revenues over the past decade were:
1961/62                       $4,066,000
1962/63                        4,109,000
1963/64                        4,522,000
1964/65                        4,672,000
1965/66                        5,016,000
1966/67                        5,235,000
1967/68                        6,364,000
1968/69                        7,016,500
1969/70                        6,999,270
1970/71                        6,740,450
1971/72                        6,639,099
1972/73                        6,311,890
The significant increase of $1 million in yield in 1968/69 is attributed to an
additional property tax imposed effective April 1969. Otherwise, the yield has
remained stagnent in recent years, and in fact declined significantly in 1972-73.
6.        The total value of land in Jamaica based on current site value is
estimated at J$3.5 billion. In 1972 total property tax receipts amounted to
J$7 million or about one-fifth of 1% of the tax base. With the tax reform,
Government expects tax receipts from real property to increase to J$ 17 mil-
lion in the current year or about one-half of 1Z of the tax base. Property
taxes of less than 1Z of the tax base would be low by world-wide standards.
Jamaica can well afford to triple its property tax revenues over the 1972
level and still be comparatively low. Furthermore, the "30-cent rule", where-
by over 400,000 of Jamaica's more than 450,000 landowners are exempted from,
property tax (except for a flat 30-cent payment) could well be adjusted up-
wards without working a burden on small landholders, though this would be very
sensltive politically.
7.        Reform of the property taxation system currently being carried out
by Government is aimed at developing a single property tax rate nation-wide,
thereby eliminating the individual parish rates and local service rates as
well as the distortions among parishes in the existing property tax rate.
Government also proposes to convert the remaining four parishes encompassing
the Kingston and Montego Bay metropolitan areas to the unimproved value basis.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
While the reform measures are currently being implemented, Goverament has
had to move ahead at a slower rate than anticipated because of taxpayers'
opposition.  Relief under the reform program has been granted to some
agriculture and commercial properties with the result that the total tax on
real property should yield only J$12 to 14 million in the current fiscal
year.
History of Property Taxation in Jamaica
8.        Efforts aimed at reforming the assessing and levying of property
taxes in Jamaica reach back at least to 1943 when the Blumberg Coamnission was
appointed by the UK Government to investigate Jamaica's property valuation and
taxation problems. The Commission recommended that Jamaica adopt a system of
unimproved value taxation and proposed an administrative framework for imple-
menting value taxation in its study of the Jamaican economy carried out in
1952. 1/
9.        In 1954, however, J. R. and U. K. Hicks disagreed with this approach
to property taxation in a report prepared for the Government of Jamaica. 2/
They argued that temporary exemptions of new construction from the tax on the
capital value of property would be preferable to a tax based on unimproved
value both on administrative grounds and for reasons of economic efficiency.
The PNP Government in office in 1955 did not accept the Hicks proposal and in
1956 brought in a United Nations advisor, who was an Australian land valuation
expert. He recommended that Jamaica adopt an unimproved value taxation system
along the lines administered by Australia and New Zealand arguing that such a
system was preferable to the capital value approach, especially for develop-
ing countries, on grounds both of administrative ease and desirable economic
effects. 3/ These recommendations were generally accepted by the Government
of Jamaica and incorporated into the Land Valuation Law, the basic legisla-
tion underlying unimproved value taxation, which was adopted by Jamaica's
parliament-in 1956. The legislation provided for a Commissioner of Valuation
to value all property in Jamaica at current market value on the unimproved
basis. The effort was estimated to take three years and work began in 1958.
10.       By 1959 the objections of large rural landowners to the new tax
system reached such dimensions that Government decided to inititjute a system
of relief from the tax when the land was in fact used for specific purposes,
such as agriculture, for which the market value was less than its alternative
highest and "best" use. An unforeseen problem also arose in that minimum
wages in some cases were linked to property valuation. By 1963, therefore,
1/   IBRD, The Economic Development of Jamaica (Baltimore, Md.:  The Johns
Hopkins Press,  52.'
2/   J. R. and U. K. flicks, Report on Finance and Taxation in Jamaica (Kingston:
Government of Jamaica, 1954)
3/   J. F. N. Murray, Report to the Government of Jamaica on Valuation, Land
Taxation and Rating (Kingston: Govt. of Jamaica, 1956)



ANNEX 6
Page 5
only six parishes had been changed over to the new system with the major task
of revaluation still lying ahead in the more urbanized parts of the country.
With the change in Government, no further action was taken to revalue lands
in the other eight parishes until 1972 when the PNP, now back in office,
again brought up the issue of tax reform.
Site Value vs. Capital Value Taxation
11.       There are differences of opinion among experts as to the effects of
site value and capital value taxation on resource allocation and tax equity.
Site value taxation is believed to foster economic development because this
method does not tax the improvements a property owner adds to his land. More-
over, it discourages the speculative withholding of land from productive use
and also provides a means of taxing value (betterment) created by the commu-
nity at large through general infrastructure development. These were the
arguments made in Jamaica in favor of site value taxation.
12.       Advocates of site value taxation argue that taxing the unimproved
value of land, rather than its improved value (site value plus improvements),
produced three principal effects encouraging econonomic development. First,
land taxation has a direct depressing effect on land prices equal to the
capitalized value of the tax. This reduction in acquisition cost amounts to
a perpetual loan and could encourage additional investment in land by persons
who would otherwise not be able to raise sufficient capital in existing
mortgage markets because of market imperfections. These imperfections sup-
posedly limit access to long-term financial resources. Secondly, the cost
of holding non-productive land is a drain on the cash flow position of its
owner and spurs him on to put the land to an income-producing use to offset
the tax burden, or to sell it to someone who will. Thirdly, there is a
fixed-cost effect of taxing land values based on the fact that the tax burden
to the owner of a given site is unrelated to the value of improvements made to
that site. The assessed value of land under the site value method of assess-
ment is determined as though the site were vacant and is based only on the
site's locational advantages and disadvantages. Consequently, the owner of
the site will recognize that the larger the investment in improvements the
lower will be his average tax cost per dollar of investment.
13.       On the basis of this reasoning, it has been suggested by some econo-
mists that site value taxation will encourage redevelopment of central-urban
areas where per unit site values are the highest and will decrease development
in urban-fringe areas where per-unit site values are lower.  These notions
have never been tested and are based fundamentally on expected reactions of
investors to site value taxation.
14.       Others have argued that site value taxation is inequitable and is
a relatively inefficient means of taxing real property. They also argue that
such a system is administratively difficult to operate. Site value taxation
reduces the tax burden for persons whose property has a high ratio of improve-
ments to site value. It is also argued that site value taxation cannot be
progressive by income levels because it is not based on the value of a
person's total holdings but rather on the value of each separate holding.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Hence, site value taxation cannot be levied according to the ability to pay
principle.
15.       With respect to the administration of site value vs. capital value
taxation, the experience of New Zealand and Australia with site value taxa-
tion has been held up by some experts as a good indication of its administra-
tive ease. Others argue that it is difficult to obtain a fair site value of
land parcels in highly-developed urban areas where improvements to land have
been extensive. There is a sharp difference of opinion regarding the admini-
strative efficiency of the two approaches.
16.      W4hile there are various schools of thought regarding the best
manner to tax real property, there can be little doubt that the present tax
reform in Jamaica will improve tax equity. Updating the tax base by a current
assessment of market value will broaden the tax base substantially which
should increase revenues by threefold in the near term and lead to a better
distribution of the tax burden in Jamaica. The quality of tax administra-
tion and the question of whether the assessment corresponds to market value
is of much greater import than the theoretical dispute as to whether site
value or capital value is the better system.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
1.        The economic justification of the proposed sites and services
project :.!s based on an accounting of the principal benefit and cost streams
(discounted over 40 years) associated with each of the proposed six locations.
Benefits flow to participating households in the form of better housing,
improved public services, and better access to employment opportunities.
Costs include total construction expenditures as well as the expense over
40 years of maintaining public infrastructure servicing the housing units.
Various secondary benefits and costs external to the proposed sites have
not been included in this analysis because they are hard to identify and are
probably not significant. The streams have been quantified initially on the
basis of actual market-determined values for all benefit and cost components.
Adjustments have subsequently been made to these streams by means of shadow
pricing to capture a more meaningful appraisal of the project. Underlying
assumptions and calculations for the various bentfit and cost streams are
shown in Table 1 which aggregates the data for the six project locations.
2.        Benefits flowing directly to participating households are measured
in terms of (1) the imputed rental value, (2) increased employment opportu-
nities and earning ability brought about by improved public services, and
(3) in some cases, economies in transport costs to and from places of employ-
ment because of locational advantages. In addition, the project is expected
to provide indirect benefits to the economy generally by reducing the rate
of crime and child welfare expenditures within the communities affectod.
Since the project will lead to a net expansion of the housing stock for
low-income households which will reduce or slow the rate of increase in rents
for housing serving the low-income market (particularly in the Kingston
Metropolitan Area), there will be further minor benefits in the form of
incremental consumer surplus.
3.        The imputed rental value, which is the primary measure of household
benefit from the new housing units, has been estimated for each location on
the basis of market rentals for comparable standard housing serving the
low-income market in Jamaica. No rental premium has been placed on indivi-
dual sites arising from preferred location since transport economies
(diseconomies) are treated separately (see below). The estimates of monthly
rentals were obtained from surveys conducted by the Ministry of Mousing for
selected existing low-income communities in Jamaica.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        Benefits flowing to households from increased employment opportu-
nities and earning ability have been established by estimating the size of
the labor force at each site and then by postulating a 5% reduction in the
unemployment rate and a 10% rise in labor productivity brought about by the
additional employment opportunities, job training, and related social program
which are an integral part of the project. These benefits should be net
additions to the economy and should not lead to employment substitution
within the labor market generally because the coordination of job training
and other public services at the sites should allow the resident population
to gain skills for which there is adequate employment demand.  The calculations
have been based conservatively on a weekly wage rate for unikilled labor of
J$ 10.  Estimates of total project population, labor force participation -rates,
and unemp,loyment rates have been derived from Ministry of Housing surveys of
existing low-income and squatter communities.
5.        Economies in transport to and from places of employment have been
derived for each site by determining whether participating households will
experience a net locational advantage compared with their former place of
residence. This advantage (or disadvantage in some cases) has been measured
in terms of the cost of bus fare stages by overlaying a map shcving principal
places of employment on a map identifying each site and existing squatter
communities from where participating households will be drawn.
6.        Indirect benefits accruing to the rest of the economy in the,form
of reduced crime, public health, and child welfare expenditures have been
measured by assuming a reduction in the level of these expenditures for the
population located at each site. Since these costs are known per 1,000
population or per capita nation-wide, it has been possible to estimate the
impact on'each site.
7.        The cost components shown in Table 1 include (1) the' market value
of land used by the project for housing, (2) the cost of structures and
infrastructure serving the housing units, (3) the expense of maintaining the
infrastructure over the 40-year period, and (4) the value of self-help labor
(or labor hired by households). The cost of industrial buildings and commu-
nity facilities and the share of infrastructure serving these users is
excluded from the analysis.
8.        The land is owned or being acquired by the Government of Jamaica.
The Ministry of Housing proposes to lease these lands to qualifying households
for 40 years at an annual rate of 8% based on the fair market value4of the
land. The rate of 8% has been established as a measure of opportunity cost
to the Government considering that the lands could be sold and the proceeds
invested elsewhere. Fair market value has been estimated for each site by
the Government's Land Valuation Office using generally accepted land appraising
techniques. In arriving at the highest and best use, the Land Valuation Office
took into consideration existing zoning districts for each site sa well as
possible higher zoning densities which could conceivably be granted for each
site. Actual appraisals were arrived at by comparing each site with recent



ANNEX 7
Page 3
land sales for contiguous properties and, alternatively, by deriving the
capitalized value of rental income for each site on the basis of highest and
beat use   The locational advantages and amenities of each site s well as
physical advantages and disadvantages were therefore taken into account in
arriving at fair market value. 1/
9.        The second cost component shown in Table 1, the value of improve-
ments to the site (structure and infrastructure), is derived from Table 2
for each site. These costs have been broken down by resources used in the
construction process (unskilled and skilled labor, domestic and imported
materials), It has been assumed that structures and infrastructure will
be put into place in year 1 and that self-help materials for additional
bedrooms will be utilized gradually over years 2-6.
1/   The issue of measuring the full opportunity cost of urban land for the
proposed site8 and services project is therefore dealt with in this
benefit/cost analysis by determining whether or not the benefits flowing
from the proposed use are sufficiently high to yield an acceptable rate
of return based on the fully capitalized value of the land for its
highest and best alternative use as estimated by the Land Valuation
Office. These alternative uses are generally for uiddle-income housing.
While the proposed sites and services project results in residential
densities (per acre) higher than would be the case for middle-income
housing, the imputed rental flow per housing unit alone would be consi-
derably lower in the former case (based on current land use densities
in Jamaica) and consequently the proposed project might not show a
positive rate of return based on the capitalized value of -the land at
its highest and best use. However, when all benefits (as described
above) flowing from the sites and services project are taken into account,
the economic sacrifice brought about by using the land for the proposed
purpose, rather than for middle-income housing, should be greatly reduced
and perhaps completely eliminated. Whether or not the economic sacrifice
brought about by using land for the proposed sites and services project
is reduced to zero can only be ascertained by comparing the rate of
return based on both direct and indirect benefits flowing from the
proposed project to the return a private developer would earn building
to the land's highest and best use. Although the figure of 15% return
to developers is often used as an average in Jamaica, such information
is held very confidentially and such an average is unreliable. Purther-
more, almost all construction contracts in both the public and private
sectors are negotiated and there is little disclosure of actual construc-
tion costs or profit margins. Therefore, this analysis cannot demonstrate
that the proposed project could yield the highest rate of return, but
can determine the proposed project's rate of return after taking into
account the full market value of each site for its highest and best
alternative use.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
10.       The third economic Cost component is project operating costs which
include the expense of maintaining the infrastructure over the 40-year life
of the project. These costs have been estimated at the rate of 1% annually
based on the initial value of infrastructure costs assignable to households.
These costs have also been broken down by resources used (see Table 1).
11.       The final cost component is the value of self-help labor by partici-
pating households. These costs include the imputed cost of labor of these
households, which is valued using unskilled market wage rates, and the cost
of hiring necessary skilled labor. These costs are estimated to the approxi-
mately 40% of the value of self-help building materials. It is assumed that
all self-help construction activity will take place over years 1-6. Labor
costs are adjusted downward in the sensitivity analysis to take into account
the high unemployment rate for unskilled labor in Jamaica.
12.       The rates of return for each location and for the total project
based on the streams of benefits and costs estimated at market value are given
in Table 3. The rate of return for the total project equals 14.4Z and ranges
from a low of 13.3% for the Marcus Garvey site to a high of 15.8% for the
Prison Farm site. The principal factors causing these variances are: relative
land values and locational transport and infrastructure costs among the sites.
The Marcus Garvey project is located on expensive land currently zoned for
industrial purposes but requires relatively low infrastructure investment;
Prison Farm has relatively low land cost, no transport diseconomies, and only
moderately expensive infrastructure requirements. Hunts Bay, on the other
hand, has low land costs, but significant transport diseconomies. Two
proposed sites, Braeton in Hellshire Hills about ten miles from Kingston and
Farm Pen on the outskirts of Montego Bay, had much lower rates of return
(and were excluded from the project) because they are too distant from
employment opportunities and would have required large off-site infrastructure
investment.
13.       Sensitivity analysis of the various benefit and cost components to
take into account the divergence of market values from social costs indicates
that a reduction in the value of unskilled labor used in the project by 50%
below market value to reflect the high rate of unemployment for this type of
labor in Jamaica increased the total project rate of return to 17.0%. Sensi-
tivity analysis further indicates that little change in rates of return occur
over the base case through (1) a reduction in land costs to take into account
its current inflated value in the Kingston Corporate area on account of
abnormally low property tax rates, (2) an increase in the Government's return
on leasing the land for the project from 8% to 10%; or (3) an increase in
the cost of materials (imported and/or domestic). If, however, household
benefits (primarily the value of imputed rents from housing) are reduced by
20%, then the rate of return is substantially reduced but is still above 11%.
Moreover, if benefits to the economy (reduced crime and public service costs)
are deleted, the project still yields a favorable return of 13.6%. The worst
possible case postulated is the deletion of rest of economy benefits, reduction
of household benefits by 20%, and an increase in the cost of domestic materials
by 10%; but still the project would yield a return of 10.1%.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
14.       The project will have a substantial redistribution effect in favor
of low-income households for two reasons. First, the net expansion of the
housing stock serving the low-income market will reduce the cost of housing
services flowing from these units (or lessen the rate of increase of these
costs). There will be a redistribution of income from suppliers of these
housing services (producers) to demanders (low-income households). There
will be a second income redistribution effect owing to the difference between
actual monthly payments by participating households for their new housing
units (for leasehold, principal, and interest) and the higher value of imputed
rents which were based on actual market value for comparable housing units.






JAMiICA SITES AND S1VICES FPRJEGT                                               AW!k.A (
Benefit, Cost, and Transfer Flows -1btal Project
February 2l, 1'974                   ( in 1974 Prices;  thousands of Jamaica doulars )
YEAR
1          2          3         4           5         6         7-40
t.   BENEFITS
A. Households                                              __       1 542       1,784    2,030       2.272     2,512      2.660
(1)  Housing Services:
from new units (imputed rent) /                   --        1,439       1,503    1,727      1,871      2,015      2,161
(2) Cowmmnity Services:
increased eiployrment                             --           51         100       151       200        248        252
increased productivity                            --           5t         100       151        200       248        252
(3)  Location advantage:
transport economies                                --           1           1         1          1          1
B.  /st Of Econom                                    2                  42          67       97        123        144        146
{14:) Reduction in  child welfare expenditures        a_             6           6         7          8          5         8
(5)  Reduction in crime /3                              --          28          50        74         96        114       115
(6)  Reduction in public health expenditure /4         --            8          11        16         19         22        23
TOTAL BEIEFITS (A t B)                     --       1,564       1,851    2,127       2,395      2,656      2,812
II.   COSTS
CO  Land                                                  28a          286         288      268        266        2685       eb
D.  Construction costs                                  227259                     259 259             259        259         __
(7-L) Unskilled labor                              38              78          78        78         78         78
(o-S) Skilled labor                                1,228           26          26        26         26         26        --
(9-D) Domestic materials                           5,526          117         117       117        117        117
(10-F)Imported materials                           1,842           39          39        39         39         39         --
h;. Project Operating Costs                                --           49          49       4Y         49         49         49
(i.l-L) Unskilled labor                                --          7                     15         15         15        15
(12-8) Skilled labor                                  _4                        4         4          4          4          4
(13-D) DIonetic materials                             --           22          22        22         22         922
(114-F) Immxorted materials                            --            7          7         7          7          7
F. Self-help household costs                              802          103         103       103       10         13
(15-iL) Unskilled labor                               7F          7                                 7777 77               _
(16-S) Skilled labor                                 201           26          26        26         26         26
TOTAL COSTS (C+DBE+F)                             13,369          699         699       6W         o99        337        337
1l.  TRANSFERS
G. Leasehold on land                                      288          288         288      288        268        216   260 2c$0
H.  Principal and interest on mortgage /5                  --           --                    --     1,318      1,318 1,318   --
I. Downpayrment                                         1,200           --          --       --         --
TOTAL TRANSFERS (0+6+1)                            1,488           288        288       288      1,606      1,6, 1, oo  i'bh
/1       Shelter only (including individual water & bathroon)
valued at $20 per mtonth; with 1 Br = $25, two B:'s = $30, and three Br's = D35.
/2       Assaume cost per household reduced by $2.00; national average is $4.00
/_       Assume reduction in crime from 26 reported cases to 16 which is the national average
per 1,000 population. Cost per reported crime vwaz $5145 in 1972/73.
/4       Per capita public health expenditure reduced by $1.O0, national average is $12.50
/5      Terms are 25 years 6 l0% with four year initial  oratorium.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
Table .
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PPDJECT
SummarY of Total Construction Costs of Housing
(1974 prices, in thousands of Jamaica Dollars)
SITE              Infrastructure      On-Lot         Self-help         TOTAL
Assignable to      Unit           Materials         Construction
Households         Cost           for Br's          Costs
Marcus Garvey          720            1,100            169              1,989
Canp Lands             360              623             98              1,081
Prison Farm           493               763            119              1,375
Hunts Bay  /1       2,368             2,867            581              5,816
Catherine Hall /A      579              767            143              1,489
Bushey Park  /A        736              903            181              1,820
TOTAL                                                                  13,570
SOURCE: Government of Jamaica, Ministry of Housing.
/1 Cost estirnates of second and third year sites have been d1eflated to
reflect. 1974 values.
February 20, 1974;



ANNEX 7
Pate 8
JAMAICA SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT              Table
Table 3:  Ihternal Rates of Retumn for Proposed Site and Services Project
(In Percentaye Form)
Marcus  Camp- Prison  Catherine  Bushey  Hunts   Tbtal
Garvey  lands  Farm        Hall    Park    Bay      Project
1.  Base Case                      13.3   15.i   15.8       14.8      15.5    13.b      l4.4
Sensitivity Analysis:
2.   Reduced value of unskilled
labor (-50%)                                                                       17.0
3.   Reduced land cost (-10%)
4.   Increase rate of return
on land to 10%                                                   -14.1
5.   Increase cost of inAorted
materials (+10%)                                                                   14.?
. Increase cost of domestic
materials (+10%)                                                                   14.1
7.   Increase cost of imported
materials (+10%) and
reduced household benefits
(-20%)                                                                             ll.
8.   Reduce household benefits
(-20%)                                                                              14.h
9.   Delete rest of econowr
benefits                                                                           13.6
10.  Delete rest of economy
benefits, reduce household
benefits (-20%), and
increase cost of domestic
materials (+10%)                                                                   lO.l1
Source: Tables 1.1 - 1.8.-
February 20, 1974






IBRD- 10605
i . 4  7 =.W: X X  1 f - -    C -: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,I0 .il ,                                                                 -,,,
CA 
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PROJECT LOCATIONS                                                                          i~~~~~~~~ot. RStL.
-        SICONOARY MAIN ROaADS                                                /     1          ( 
,,,.RAILViAYS                                                                 XS   
_-- RIVER5     S               ''      C             A lI                                                                      0134 ID_Dp
.1.   MIAIN 70RIS                                                                                                      I  1  oylbi   ~ s? '
*  INTERNATICNIAI AIRPORTS<CA7V                                           S             \                             i        O T'!?       °
'       W D@l AIRPORTSA                                                                          _                                       1
PR ISH BOUNDAR IS fl 5d 3a40 
COUNTY EOUNOARIES ,i  rboa  rR   O
_5 __IMNTdATIOMAb BOUND)ARIES   .a01'  v     edi or 5v'i 1h                                                                                          r07 70T0*






BRD 10606
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                                                                                                                                                             S   ta
X   i                                                                                      f       M          D                                                       a   i   N    G   '   F   o   IJ            {4 a7R    R    0   luTRBER 1973
-2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
SPA ISH TWC N 
8 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SITES AND  SERVICES PROJECT                                            '-;                                                                              -  -                           ON                    t a  ea
Kingston and Spanish Town Site Locations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4_S
5Itcs und eerQlces | ,/0 | ' t ' > ' / 0 t > J A M A I C A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AM    IC 
_tSquatter upqrading = ==-22C      
silCpntral boniness districts                                                                  \                                                                                                                 -        ._                                                          {2         ,
Buit-op areas
jl1 Sajact ti areas                             fD                               e      P                                                                                                                                                                           !              S7
-   Mon rods                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -f  t
'_ Oth er rot                                                       Ii .,SoNOt.'
Pa,- woo-O-Iw
AllitwdeS coon 750 meters -71 -
............ Conty boundary                                                               /                          I                                                    2                                                                                     aoIA oR       O7 Ara
---Parish Soouner76d'                                                                (                                                     M \00  6i50 y*+tes>In ot
UC Bridges                                                                                                                                           7                                                                          n  ee,   ',,5n               OOC ~
7450'                                                                   -~~~~~~~~~Oirrresnrtio.OaanCe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l






IBRD 10607
7767-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
JAMAICA
SITES AND  SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                       NORWOOD
Montego Bay Site Location
I  0    0     3000
FEET
0         00     2  000
iPojc loato                                                                                               BOTO  PEN XFRM  e
Built up artos
P~~~~  7 w#7                                           N  ,, J 
V4 VillageseN
-Main roads
Othe mod
Railway 
Arnitudes ovew 200 mewsr-
Rivwrs






IBRD 10608
vsxv                                                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 913
C0toA
MesO~~O                    OQN KING
COOTA RtCA            cc. R.d
~~     CABANA zotae      P-kO,gMLI t
C         RJNGSTOMN ,.t  ,.
I">'             'V~~~~PI,e  -
C   00      ~~'00     30        0
TE-EyT       -f
Co   mmmnmt Center
Trd--rog   Cener 
DESCRIPTION OF UNITS
JAMAICA                                                                                                                                                                                                      L 
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                           - ce
MARCUS GARVEY SITE LAYOUT PLAN                                                                                                                                                                            .                         . 



I



_Car, tbRhror                    ' fJ USAV
JAMAICA                                                                                                                               CUBAF
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                        .                                                                        4M<5I?
MEXICO ~' B  OJUA
SPANISH TOWN  SITE LAYOUT PLAN                                                                                                                    HONDU_ NONfURAS_
771      0 ....... ..R dMLA               N  PAGUA
~bc,I~ *Oic uoC    CANAL zaX  COLOMBIAj
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
... Access Roads                         U11
F// Parking Lots
Market Are 
Police Post
Clinic
Community Cne                                                4YC
Primary Schoo                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION  OF UNITS
N                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
_________________________________________                                      (Fo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir, bock - to- bocko-,  a~k  k  o



