FILE        COPY'                            Document of
The World Bank
International Finance Corporation
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1867-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE CORPORATION
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR THE
BENEFIT OF THE BANCO INDUSTRIAL, S.A.
AND AN INVESTMENT BY THE
CORPORATION IN THE BANCO INDUSTRIAL, S.A.
June 22, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of   June 1, 1976)
Currency Unit  = Bolivian Peso ($b)
US$1           = $b20
$bl            = US.o0.05
.$bl,000       = US$50
$bl,000,000    = US$50,00O
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BISA                    Banco Industrial S.A.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK
AND TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
ON A PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BANCO INDUSTRIAL, &A
AND AN INVESTMENT BY THE CORPORATION
IN THE BANCO INDUSTRIAL, S.A.
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Bolivia for the benefit of the Banco Industrial, S.A., (BISA)
for the equivalent of US$10 million to assist BISA in its financing of private
mining and industrial enterprises, and an IFC investment of up to $bll million
(Us55o0,000 equivalent) in the share capital of BISA.  The interest on the loan
would be 8.85% per annum.  Amortization would confonm substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to the sub-loans financed out of the
proceeds of the loan, and would not exceed 18 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Bolivia" (786a-BO) dated July 28, 1975, was distributed to the Executive
Directors. An updating economic memorandum will.be distributed to the
Executive Directors in the near future. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of petroleum and natural gas exports,
as well as significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of the poorest
countries in South America. The majority of the population is engaged in tra-
ditional agriculture. Only a small part of the labor force is employed in the
modern sectors.. The infrastructure is primitive and the road and rail networks
cover only a fraction of the country. The combination of strong traditional
ties within the Indian communities and geographic, health and educational
obstacles to population mobility has perpetuated the demographic concentration
on the barren, windswept and dry 10-15 thousand foot plateau, the Altiplano.
About half of Bolivia's population lives a physically, culturally and economi-
cally isolated subsistence existence in this inhospitable region which is rich
in mineral deposits but limited in agricultural potential.
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an  end to the dual structure
which characterized Bolivia's economy since colonial times and to deprive the
landowning and mining oligarchy of its economic base. This objective was only
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



partially achieved. Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations, dis-
tributing the land and eliminating obstacles to social mobility. The agrarian
reform and the nationalization of large mines however, were followed by falling
production. GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover to its pre-1952
level until 1961.   During the subsequent decade, output increased steadily
at an average annual rate of about 5%, providing for average annual per capita
income increases of 2.5%. As a result, GNP per capita which had fallen by
24% in the 1952-60 period had recovered by 1970, to the 1952 level and was
more equally distributed. However, the momentum of economic growth was again
lost in 1970/71 because of political instability associated with declining
private investment and deteriorating public finances.   Ihe deterioration of
public finances reflected a structural flaw in the economy. Bolivials public
sector is proportionately one of the largest in South America and a source
of livelihood for a sizeable segment of the population. With the scarcity
of employment opportunities in the private sector, pressures to expand the
ranks of public servants proved difficult to resist. Increased expenditures
on wages and salaries, combined with a weak tax system, left few resources
for investment. Moreover, the inability of the public sector to generate
adequate savings limited its capacity to utilize external assistance.
5.        On coming to power in 1971, President Banzer faced the need to
provide jobs forthe unemployed and to revitalize investment and output
growth. This need was initially faced in the context of a sharp deteriora-
tion in Bolivia's terms of trade which produced a weakening in the balance-
of-payments and a further deterioration in public finances and eventually
resulted in a substantial devaluation in 1972.  At the same time, however,
more rational economic policies were put into effect. To establish a more
favorable climate for private investment, new laws offering guarantees and
incentives to private investors were promulgated and claims arising from
earlier nationalizations were settled. The Government also improved public
administration and the pricing policies of some public undertakings. Ihese
policies were successful in increasing private investment and ilk bolstering
the rate of growth.
Fecent Economic Developments and Prospects
6.        The most important events affecting recent economic performance
have been the substantial improvement in the terms of trade in 1974 and the
subsequent deterioration last year. Ihe sharp increases in petroleum and
mineral prices in 1974 allowed a simultaneous and large expansion of both
consumption and investment and brought about an unprecedented improvement in
public finances and the balance-of-payments. After current deficits in
1970-73 the Central Government achieved savings equivalent to one-third of
its capital expenditure in 1974. For the public sector as a whole, savings
in 1974 exceeded 10% of GDP and covered nearly 90% of capital expenditure.
On the balance of payments side, the terms of trade gain in 1974 was
equivalent to about 11% of GDP and the trade surplus exceeded US$150 million.
There was a current account surplus of some US$50 million and net capital
inflows approached US$90 million, nearly four times their 1973 level, as a
result of substantially higher loan disbursements to the public sector and



- 3 -
increased foreign investment associated with hydrocarbon exploration. The net
foreign reserve gain in 1974 -- US$125 million -- brought total reserves to
US$156 million, equivalent to 3.7 months of imports, a high point in Bolivia's
recent economic history.
7.        After the terms-of-trade related financial improvement in 1974, a
deterioration took place in 1975 -- caused by a worsening of the terms-of-
trade and the impact of the world wide economic recession. Mineral exports
fell by well over 20C. There was a decline of mineral prices approximating
13%, on weighted average, and the volume of sales of most minerals fell as
a direct result of the recession and unloading of speculative stocks accumu-
lated during the commodity boom of 1973/74. Efforts by the International
Tin Council to sustain prices by imposing export quotas did not produce
the expected results. Exportable surpluses of crude petroleum were signi-
ficantly reduced for the second year in a row due to falling production and
rapidly rising domestic consumption of hydrocarbon derivatives. A signi-
ficant price increase for natural gas was obtained from Argentina, but this
could not compensate for the overall decline in export earnings. Based on
preliminary estimates, merchandise exports in 1975 declined by 18% while
imports rose by nearly one-third in the wake of the start-up of a new
public investment project and the liberalization of imports for consumer
durables and motor cars earlier in the year.  The current account deficit
approached US$211 million and despite substantially increased disbursement
of medium term loans to the public sector, there was a loss of net foreign
exchange reserves of some US$60 million. Reserves declined to US$100 million,
or about two months of imports.
8.        Bolivia's terms of trade are expected to again improve in 1976
and beyond. Mineral prices appear to have bottomed out in 1975 and hydro-
carbon prices have resumed their rising trend. Furthermore, with gradual
economic recovery in industrialized countrieq mineral export volumes should
increase. Recent Government measures to increase prices of domestically
consumed petroleum products, especially of gasoline, should improve exportable
surpluses. The outlook for 1976, therefore, is for somewhat accelerated growth
and an improved fiscal and balance-of-payments position.
9.        Economic growth prospects over the medium- to longer-term depend on
the Government's ability to increase savings and stimulate investments,
particularly those for developing the countryts hydrocarbon, mineral and agri-
tural resources.   Government measures designed to broaden the revenue base
have begun to show results. The firm wage policies that have been applied
since 1974 have resulted in a reduction of inflation to an annual rate well below
10%. Investment in mining and hydrocarbons is accelerating. Intensified exploration
for hydrocarbons by the state-owned petroleum company and private foreign
companies is underway and may lead to significantly increased production and
export of crude petroleum and natural gas which would stimulate an acceleration
of economic growth towards the end of the decade.



-4 -
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
10.       Service on external public debt in 1975 amounted to 16.8% of
exports of goods and non-factor services net of investment income abroad.
Average terms of the external debt outstanding have remained soft, reflecting
the high proportion of concessionary aid channeled to Bolivia. Average interest
in 1975. was 4.4% and average maturity about 22 years.
11.       This position is bound to change, however, as it can be expected
that lending terms will become harder and the share of loans on conventional
terms will increase.  Of new loans attracted during 1974 and 1975, over 40%
were financial and suppliers' credits. With substantial disbursements
envisaged during the next five years, the service on external public debt
will move well above its historical average (12.8%) by 1977/78. However, as
a result of growing exports, the debt service ratio should decline in sub-
sequent years. In view of the nature and growing size of Bolivia's debt,
prudence in selecting and utilizing external capital will have to become an
essential element of debt management.
12.       Bolivia enjoys a substantial resource base in agriculture, minerals
and hydrocarbons which has to be developed to sustain rapid economic growth
and, in particular, rapid expansion of export earnings in the foreseeable
future. If production in the export sectors can be increased as planned and
prices for the country's major export products (oil, gas, minerals) are
adequate, Bolivia can be considered creditworthy for substantiallv increased
amounts of external lending on conventional terms. Nevertheless, some additional
lending on soft terms is justified by Bolivia s poverty and its large and
continuing external capital requirements. The country will require substantial
external financing of investment to supplement the domestic savings effort at
least until the early 1980s. While the Government is making a serious effort
to mobilize domestic resources and prepare a development program, implementa-
tion of this program will require external assistance well in excess of the
foreign exchange component of suitable projects presently available for inter-
national financing. Although substantially increased suppliers' and financial
credits will probably become available, they should prudently cover not more
than 35% of the public capital inflows required during 1975-80 for meeting
a GDP growth target of 6-7% annually. The remainder should be obtained on
softer terms, preferably from international development financing agencies,
including an expanded Bank lending program.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
13.       Bolivia is an original member of the Bank but it did not obtain
Bank Group resources until 1964. Bank Group assistance to Bolivia has been
limited by the country's tight budget and restricted capacity to service
external debt. Until 1975, lending to Bolivia was in the form of IDA credits,
except for a Bank loan to help fin-nce an "enclave" project. Because of the
narrow scope for private investment, the first IFC investment, amounting to
US$400,000 in a cable-and plastic products enterprise, was not made until



1973.  With the recent expanding opportunities for private investment, IFC is)
together with its proposed investment in BISA, planning to invest up to US$337,500
in the Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist in the development of mortgage banking
and the establishment of a local market for long-term securities. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of the status of Bank Group operations in Bolivia as of
April 30, 1976, and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
14.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's fifth and the sixteenth
Bank Group operation in Bolivia. Net of undisbursed balances, Bolivia's
debt to the Bank and IDA in 1974/75 represented 8.3% of its external public
indebtedness and the share of the Bank Group in total debt service is now
about 4%. Both figures are expected to increase marginally by 1980. Although
the Bank Group has ranked below the US Government and the IDB as a source
of financial assistance to Bolivia, its role has been expanding.
15.       Future Bank lending will continue to give emphasis to supporting
Government efforts to expand production while simultaneously improving the
distribution of the benefits of economic growth. Many Bank activities will
focus on helping the less developed regions of the Altiplano and the inter-
mediate Valleys which contain the majority of Bolivia's rural and urban
poor.
16.       In the social sectors, additional agricultural projects are
being considered which will be designed to meet the needs of the poorer
farmer and an education project for the improvement of rural and vocational
education.is in an advanced stage of preparation. A water and sewerage
project has also been prepared and will be presented to the Board in the
near future. In mining, the next Bank-financed project will be directed
to assisting the development of smaller mining enterprises, through a credit
program administered by the state-owned mining development bank. Ihe financing
of further economic infrastructure is also contemplated in the transportation
and power sectors. In transportation, project preparation is underway for
a project to-provide access to remote areas of the country through a program
of airport development and continued support for the railway rehabilitation
program is planned as well.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Mining Sector
17.       Mining has traditionally exerted a dominant influence on the
Bolivian economy. Despite difficult terrain, which makes mining costly, it
is an important sector in which Bolivia has a comparative economic advantage,
and accounts for about two-thirds of merchandise exports. As a capital-
intensive activity, mining employs only about 3% of the labor force, but
several hundred thousand Bolivians depend on it for their livelihood.
18.       Mining operations are carried  out by public and private sector
enterprises, the latter consisting of medium and small mining firms. The
public sector includes all the largest mines, which belong to the Corporacion
Minera Boliviana (COMIBOL) and which account for over 50% of mineral experts
and 40% of employment. COMIBOL is beset by serious problems of over-centrali-
zation, inefficiency, and excessive welfare expenditures, the resolution of
which would require difficult political decisions.



- 6 -
19.       Medium mining consists of 29 private firms, both local and foreign
owned, which form an Association of Medium Miners. Its members must have
share capital of at least US$100,000 and a certain minimum monthly production.
The rest of the private sector is referred to as small mining. It includes
some 2,000 operating mines, varying in size from family operations to
companies approaching the size of medium mining enterprises.
20.       As a group, medium miners are the most efficient segment of the
sector; they account for 22% of the mining exports and 28% of mining taxes.
Their mines are relatively modern and capital intensive. Thus, they employ
relatively less labor than the public. or small mining subsectors, but pro-
vide their workers with better working and living conditions. While some
larger firms are gradually becoming diversified corporations with holdings
in agriculture, industry and banking, the number of medium mining companies
has been and will be increasing as the larger and more efficient units of the
small mining subsector continue to develop. This natural process would be
greatly accelerated through a small mining development project, which is
being considered separately by the Bank.
21.       Recent developments in the mining sector have been disappointing.
Even apart from temporary adverse effects of deteriorating market conditions
for major minerals since 1975, the sector's contribution to GDP has been
declining for some time, reflecting the existence of deep-seated structural
problems. These include inadequate exploration, undercapitalization and
inadequate maintenance of the existing mines, especially small ones, and
an excessive dependence on tin mining. Past political instability, anti-
quated mining policies and a virbual lack of long-term credit have dis-
couraged mining investment and have been mainly responsible for the present
situation.
22.       The present Government is determined to resolve some of these
problems by initiating better planning and new policies aiming at more
equitable mining taxes, establishing a central fund to finance exploration,
and opening of public lands for joint exploitation by public and private
interests. The gradual change from the production tax -- which under- or
over-charges the miners, depending on market conditions, and discourages
efficient mining -- to a profit tax is expected to induce private investment
to modernize and expand existing operations and to search for new mineral
reserves. Opening of public lands to joint exploitation and the creation
of an exploration fhnd should facilitate expansion of known mining areas
and induce the formation of joint ventures between foreign and local
investors, private or public, thereby bringing in foreign oapital, tech-
nology and administrative know-how.
23.       Bank g~roup assistance, based on the recommendations of the 1972
sector report,li is focused on the provision of term credit for private
mining, but it also contains a substantial technical assistance component.
1/  The Mining and Metallurgical Sector, Report No. Pl-14, dated Decer`btr 7,
1972



- 7 -
The first IDA Credit, No.455-B0, provided term credit for medium miners
through Banco Industrial (BISA) and financed technical assistance, includ-
ing studies of mining taxatior and the possibility of creating an exploration
fund. It also partially covered costs of the initial phase of the survey of
small mines, which is a prerequisite for a small mining development project
which is presently under preparation. The credit portion of the first IDA
Credit is about 60% coimmitted and should be fully committed by September of
this year. The other components of the IDA Credit are proceeding as scheduled.
The proposed project is designed, among other things, to expand the scope of
medium-size mining investment and to further strengthen BISA, thus consolidat-
ing the gains made with the first IDA Credit. Also, a Government proposal
for Bank participation in an exploration fund is expected shortly; consideration
would be subject to prior consultation with the Executive Directors.
24.       Mining subloans of BISA to be financed under the proposed Bank
loan would be used primarily to increase the efficiency of the existing
medium-size mining operations with resulting high economic benefits. In
addition, BISA as the largest private development finance institution, is
expected to play an active role in implementing the Government 's new mining
policies and particularly in promoting joint mining ventures. Also, it
would be expected to give special attention to subprojects producing metals
other than tin and to evaluate carefully the economic viability of tin
subprojects (para. 47).
B. The Industrial Sector
General
25.       Industry contributes about 10% to GDP, as compared to 11% by mining,
but employs almost three times as many workers, about 8% of the labor force
in 1974. This is because industrial activities are largely carried out in.
small plants and workshops which are labor intensive. With the exception of
petroleum and metal refining, most industrial firms are privately owned. It
is expected that the present share of industry in GDP would increase, in
response to investment expenditures which have risen substantially since 1972
and which are likely to remain strong in coming years.
26.       The principal problem for industrialization is the smaU size of
the internal market which is further reduced by the high cost and difficulties
of internal transportation. This and the distances from world markets and
the lack of a Bolivian-owned port provide natural protection to local industry
and make it difficult to sell in the international market.
27.       Processing of locally produced agricultural and mineral raw
materials accounted for over three-fourths of industrial output and employment
in 1973. Imports satisfy about half of the domestic demand for industrial
goods. Imports of goods competitive with those produced by the processing
sectors accounted for 28% of total imports in 1973, suggesting that there is
still room for additional efficient import substitution in processing



- 8 -
industries. Given Bolivia's natural resource base, it appears that industry
has been developing along the lines of comparative advantage.
28.       Reflecting the low level of financial development in Bolivia, a
severe shortage of term credit limits investment mostly to retained earnings
and other savings of a small group of entrepreneurs. As a result, investment
projects are often undertaken on too small a scale or not at all. Most credit
extended by the banking system is to finance working capital at short term,
but it is nevertheless inadequate for Bolivian industry, which, due to diffi-
cult transport, has to carry exceptionally large inventories. Firms could
grow faster if more term credit for investment and working capital were avail-
able. The current rapid development of the financial sector should thus
stimulate industrial development.
Policy
29.       Tariffs are low and provide a fairly even amount of protection to
all sectors, thereby allowing relative profitability to be determined by
economic efficiency. In October 1975, in response to a decline in inter-
national reserves, the Government increased the number of items subject to
import quotas and prohibitions, but they still apply only to about 4% of the
items in the tariff schedule. Thus, Bolivian industry is still largely free
of the distortions created by widespread trade controls. The benefits to
Bolivia of belonging to the Andean Common Market may be offset by the very
high Cormmon External Tariff which might finally be negotiated.
30.       The Investment Law encourages private investment in both new and
existing enterprises, principally in industry. While successful in pro-
moting investment, the Law grants benefits, mainly exemption from import
duties, that stimulate most those industries which use the highest propor-
tion of imported raw materials and capital goods and which are capital
rather than labor intensive.
31.       Income taxes in Bolivia are low but numerous national departmental
and municipal excise taxes are levied at each stage of processing. In
effect, highly processed goods are taxed more than less processed goods.
This is particularly damaging as Bolivia's comparative advantage lies
principally in processing industries.
32.       If Bolivia follows trade, investment, and taxation policies which
allow its comparative advantage to be realized, the processing industries
should continue to grow faster than industry as a whole. In addition to
maintaining low and uniform protection, authorities should search for new
means of promoting industrial investment which do not favor import-intensive
and capital-intensive industries. Measures are also needed to eliminate
excess taxation of highly processed goods and to offset the burden of
excise taxes and import duties on exports, for example by a comprehensive
rebate in the form of a transferable credit note. Ihese measures could
contribute significantly to the promotion of non-traditional exports. Sound,
rapid industrial growth will be facilitated by recent changes in interest



_ 9 _
rates that should encourage financial intermediaries to attract savings
and make longer term loans for industrial investment (para 35). The need
for improvements in both industrial and financial policies was discussed
with the Bolivian authorities during preparation of the project as part
of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the Government on economic policy.
C. Financial System
33.       The financial system in Bolivia, which consists of the Central
Bank, commercial and specialized banks, and other financial institutions,
is at an early stage of development. Nevertheless, rising incomes,
greater political stability, and more consistent government policies have
recently sparked accelerated financial development, resulting in the
formation of some new banks and financial companies. Financial develop-
ment has been reinforced by the increase in the share of total credit
going to the private sector.  Tis increase has resulted from rising
public revenues due to higher oil prices which have reduced the need for
deficit financing.  However, although commercial bankst resources and
their total volume of lending have increased, the average lending term
has been actually shortened to less than one year following the full
commitment of concessionary funds derived from foreign assistance grants
and loans. The result is that short-term working capital credit is now
easier to get, but the scarcity of term financing for investment and
permanent working capital remains severe. BISA, the major domestic
source of medium- and long-term financing for industry and mining, has
been unable to satisfy the fast-growing demand of private industries,
while its mining lending, made possible through IDA credit No. 455-B0,
has not reached more than a modest number of medium-size projects.
34.       Real interest rates in Bolivia have generally been positive
since the 1959 stabilization program. Inflation, fluctuating in a range
of 3 to 39% per annum since 1960, made real rates negative for about 18
months during 1973 and 1974, following the 68% devaluation in 1972. Since
mid-1974, however, real rates have again turned positive as the
November 1974-November 1975 rate of inflation dropped to 7. 5%.
35.       Interest rates on savings deposits in commercial banks were
raised from 9% to 10% in 1974, and the Central Bank started to guaranteed
the dollar value of the savings deposits of individuals. In August 1975,
the dollar guarantee was extended to time deposits, whose interest rates
were raised to 10-1/4% for 90-day deposits and to 11-3/,4% for 360-day
deposits. Commercial banks pay up to 9% per annum on US dollar time
deposits. Central Bank regulations permit commercial banks to charge
nominal interest of up to 15% per annum on loans made from their own
resources.  Because of taxes, cormissions, and the prepayment of the
interest normally required by banks, the effective rate to the borrower
may exceed 23% on short-term peso "productive" loans and 33% on personal
and commercial loans. In comparison to commercial banks, the cost of



- 10 -
term loans made by development institutions such as BISA is much lower.
There are no taxes or employees benefit fee on development loans and they are
usually denominated in US dollars. Funds from international organizations,
which are principally available for longer term lending, may not be relent
at more than 12% per annum in foreign currency and after lending fees and
commissions their cost to the borrower is about 13% per annum. On January 8,
1976, the maximum lending rate on development banks own resources, which
are usually loaned on terms not exceeding three years, was raised from 13%
to 15% per annum to conform to the maximum nominal rate of commercial banks.
Including a closing fee, the effective cost of these loans may now reach
16% per annum. However, despite the equality in nominal lending rates as
between commercial and development loans, sizeable differences continue to
exist in their comparative effective costs due, on the one hand, to the
foreign exchange risk inherent in dollar denominated loans for development
and, on the other hand, to the taxes, commissions and requirements for pre-
payment of interest attaching to peso denominated commercial loans.
36.       Ihe need for an increase in the development banks' lending rate
was discussed with the Central Bank during project preparation and the
January increase may be an important breakthrough in the mobilization of
domestic resources for investment purposes. For the first time in recent
yearss, BISA and other development finance institutions should be in a
position to offer an interest rate on term funds in excess of the rate paid
on commercial bank time deposits and still have an adequate interest spread
on relending the borrowed funds.
37.       Development Prospects and Constraints.   Although notable advances
have been made, the Bolivian financial system still suffers from a number
of structural weaknesses. A foremost weakness is the lack of a reasonable
term structure of interest rates. The present interest rate structure does not
set a differential between short and longer term loans and therefore discour-
ages term lending, since it offers commercial banks no incentive to pay
higher interest rates to mobilize longer-term savings. A second weakness
is that much of the recent advancement in the financial system nas relied
on US dollar guarantee of individuals' savings instruments. This would
endanger the effectiveness of monetary policy in the event of a devaluation.
Instead an adequate interest rate differential between guaranteed and non-
gruaranteed instruments should be established.
38.       Despite these weaknesses, the financial system should be able to
mobilize increasing amounts of resources and to make a modest beginning in
lengthening the average term of both assets and liabilities. The re-establish-
ment of positive real interest rates has set the stage for healthy develop-
ment of the financial system and made feasible the initiation of a modest
capital market which would aid in the efficient allocation of investment
funds throughout the economy.



- 11 -
39.       Project Implications. Thus far, BISA has played a minor role in
the mobilization of domestic resources, largely because of the previous
ceiling of 13% per annum on lending from its own funds. The recent interest
rate adjustment, which allows development banks to charge 15% per annum on
their own resources, should enable BISA to initiate the issue of one- to
two-year dollar bonds at corpetitive interest rates. BISA's issue of bonds
would be facilitated by the prospective establishment of an over-the-counter
securities market. A successful issue of bonds by BISA would set a precedent
for other financial institutions, thereby stimulating the development of the
capital market and facilitating investment in mining and industry.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
40.         The proposed project, consisting of a Bank loan and an IFC invest-
ment, would represent the second Bank Group financing of BISA. Unlike the 1974
IDA Credit, which was restricted to the mining sector, the proposed loan
would provide scarce long-term funds to both private mining and industrial
projects, including projects of small industrial enterprises. Ihe proposed
IFC investment, which was first discussed during the appraisal of the IDA
Credit in 1973, would consist of a subscription to BISA's share capital. The
project would contribute to the further development of BISA as the principal
term-lending institution to the private mining and industrial sectors in
Bolivia, and would incorporate some features designed to help develop the
Bolivian capital market.
41.       The loan and investment summaries are provided in Annex III.  The pro-
posed project was appraised in November/December 1975. Negotiations were held
in Washington in May 1976.  The Government of Bolivia was represented by the
Economic Counselor in its Washington Embassy, Jaime Delgadillo.  BISA was repre-
sented by its General Manager, Jorge Lop'8z Pacheco. The Staff Project Report
(No. 1132-BO and dated June 4# 1976) is being circulated under separate cover
to the Executive Directors.
Banco Industrial, S.A. (BISA)
42.       BISA, established in 1963 as a private development bank, was set up
primarily   to provide term financing to the private industrial sector. Since
its participation in the IDA Credit, it now also finances the private mining
sector. BISA is presently implementing a plan for geographic and functional
expansion that would transform it into a truly national development finance
institution. Other private development banks in Bolivia are much smaller
and relatively ineffective, while the record of Governmernt-owned institutions
has thus far been poor. Therefore, the growth and development of BISA has
important implications for the overall development of the private mining and
industrial sectors in Bolivia.



- 12 -
43.       OTinership ana Board of Directors.  BISA's shareholders include the
most important groups in the Bolivian private sector. Shareholders are grouped
into four categories: private Bolivian banks (21% of share capital), industrial
firms and individuals (32%), foreign investors (32%), and medium mining enter-
prises (15%). The biggest shareholder is ADELA Investment Company, with about
23% of share capital. No other shareholder accounts for more than 7%. Each
shareholder category has two directors, a system that gives BISA an eight-mnember
Board with a good balance of skills. BISA's Board, which includes several
prominent bankers and businessmen, is effective in setting policy and takes an
active interest in BISA's operations.
hlj..     Management and Staff.  BISA has competent and experienced management.
Its general manager is well qualified and has headed BISA since 1969.  BISA has
built up an able staff of 19 professionals. It recently opened a branch office
in Santa Cruz to help develop the considerable agro-industrial potential of the
western region, and a representative office in Tarija to cover the southern
provinces of Bolivia.
45.       Policies and Procedures. The quality of BISA's appraisal work is
generally satisfactory. Technical evaluation and financial analysis are
acceptable. Economic analysis includes the economic rate of return (ERR)
for all subloans requiring more than US$50,000 equivalent, which account for
close to 90% of total approval amount. Supervision is acceptable. Prncurement
and disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
h6.       BISA recently drafted an integrated policy statement which serves as
a guide to operations. During negotiations, BISA agreed to modify its
policy statement so that it would (i) reduce the total amount of its exposure,
as a percentage of its equity, in any single client from 35% to 25% by 1978
in step with its growth in equity and (ii) institute more efficient operating
policies which should result in satisfactory profitability, increased dividend
yields and thereby facilitate the mobilization of the necessary equity resources
to assure BISA's sound financial growth.
47.       As a guide for subsequent project supervision by the Bank Group, BISA's
future operational strategy was discussed and agreed upon, in principle, during
negotiations. Points covered, inter alia, were BISA's geographic expansion plans,
capital market development efforts and overall operational targets, including loans
to small-scale enterprises. It is BISA's intention to give special attention to
subprojects producing metals other than tin in support of the Government's policy
of diversification in the mining sector, and to examine carefully those subprojects
producing tin or goods whose importation is prohibited. Bolivian industrial
policies have important implications for BISA. Because of the recent increases
in import restrictions, BISA should evaluate carefully the economic viability of
subprojects producing goods whose importation is prohibited. These implications
were discussed during negotiations and BISA has agreed to adopt-reasonable para-
meters for the shadow pricing of labor and foreign exchange.



- 13 -
48.       Past Operations and Results.  While still a relatively small
institution with total assets of about US$11 million, BISA has already
established itself as a major source of scarce term financing for the
private industrial and mining sectors. Since 1963 BISA has approved a
total of 862 loans for about US$35,000 average.  The processing industries
in which Bolivia appears to have comparative advantage, such as food
products and textiles, account for more than half of the total amount
approved. Though recently started, mining already represents 10% of total
approvals. Firms in the La Paz area continue to absorb the bulk of BISA's
funds. This does not indicate a reversal of BISA's efforts to diversify
operations geographically, but rather results from the financing of mining
projects sponsored by firms with headquarters in La Paz but with operations
elsewhere. A considerable lengthening of average loan term, and a much
greater percentage of loans now financing fixed assets rather than working
capital, indicate the growing maturity of BISA as a term-lending institution.
Also, while BISA has not been very promotional in terms of equity investments,
it has been active in financing the creation of new enterprises, which
accounted for 23% of total approval amount since inception.
49.     BISA also provides credit to small-scale enterprises having no more
than US$50,000 in equity and employing not more than 50 people. In 1975, these
loans, made in amounts not exceeding US$30,000 equivalent, accounted for about
half of the total number of loans approved and for about 8% of total approval
amount. Active participation of commercial banks as channels for part of these
loans has resulted in wide geographical distribution of this type of credit.
BISA expects that about 10% of its future lending, including a part of the pro-
posed loan, would be made to small enterprises. During negotiations it was
agreed that BISA would institute a system of management controls for loans to
small-scale enterprises which would assure that appraisal standards would be
more evenly applied and subproject implementation more closely supervised.
50.       Loan approvals increased five-fold from $b40 million in 1973 to
about $b216 million in 1975, while the total portfolio grew by about 60%
in 1974 and 1975, reaching an estimated $b230 million.  BISA's earnings
have now recovered from the decline in the earl;y 1970s, and it plans to
resume a minimum 5% yearly cash dividend (based on share capital) out of
1975 earnings. As a result of a doubling of assets from $blO9 million in
1973 to about $b211 million in 1975, the debt/equity ratio rose from
3.5:1 at year-end 1973 to 4.9:1 at year-end 1975, although BISA retained
all earnings during this period. This is still within its contractual
limit with IDA of 6:1. As an incentive for BISA'S capital market develop-
ment efforts, the Bank and IDA have agreed that the sale of domestic bonds up
to an amount equivalent to BISA's equity would not be counted against the
basic debt/equity ratio.(Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement). This is
justified by financial and institutional improvements in BISA since the
appraisal of the IDA Credit.
51.       BISA's loan portfolio is adequately secured with guarantees. Arrears
over three months represent about 7% of outstanding loans and recovery pros-
pects of these loans are relatively good. Total loss reserves are currently
1.2% of BISA's total portfolio. BISA has agreed that the current reserve for
portfolio losses is barely adequate and has agreed to increase the provision
annuallyr, so as to reach 3% by 1980.



52.       Projected Operations.  BISA should have no difficulty in attaining
its target for approvals through 1980 at a conservatively projected growth
rate of about 12% per year.  Due to large increases in approvals in 1974 and
1975, BISA's assets would triple by 1978 from the year-end 1975 base of
$b211 million. Profitability should also increase significantly to reach a
15% return on average equity from 1978 onwards, which should make BISA's
shares more attractive.
53.       This projected growth rate would require additional forei&.± long-
term loans of at least US$10 million up to 1975, which the proposed loan is
to supply. BISA would also require additional resources for working-capital
loans, which it could obtain by mobilizing domestic resources through the
issuance of debt securities of at least one year term, in addition to its
short-term foreign commercial bank credit lines.   BISA has agreed (Section 2.09
of the Project Agreement) to undertake a study to determine the feasibility of
a program for the sale of such securities and to use its best efforts to carry
out a program which wiould have the equivalent of US$2 million worth of securities
outstanding by December 31, 1978. There has been little experience in Bolivia
in selling medium term debt securities, which may result in some unforeseen
difficulties in meeting the aforementioned target.
54.       Availability of sufficient additional share capital at this time
represents a major constraint on BISA's growth. In order to grow at the
projected rate and remain within the proposed debt/equity limitation, BISA
would need at least US$1.9 million in new paid-in capital by 1978. BISA has
informed us that they are in an advanced stage of negotiations with the
Deutsche EntwicklungsgesellUchaft (DEG) a German Government development
institution, as well as with existing major shareholders, for subscriptions of
share capital on a pari passu basis of 2:1 with the proposed IFC investment.
BISA expects to meeVTTRE subscription target of US$1.9 million by 1978.
The Proposed Bank Loan
55.       General Description. The proposed loan for US$10 million would be
utilized to finance the foreign exchange component of projects in the private
mining and industrial sectors. Based on BISA's tentative pipeline of projectss
about 70% of the loan would be utilized for mining and the rest for industry.
However, a continuation of the presently depressed conditions of the mineral
market could slow down loan cormmitments for mining, although medium-term market
prospects are reasonably good. Industrial subloans would include lending to
small enterprises, which are expected to utilize up to 10% of the proposed loan.
An analysis of BISA's tentative project pipeline indicates that the Bank loan
would help finance investment projects whose total cost would be about US$19
million.
56.        As requested, the proposed loan would be made to the Government of
Bolivia. It would be relent to BISA on the same terms and conditions, but
denominated in US dollars. The Government would take the exchange risk
between the dollar and the currencies disbursed by the Bank for a fee of 1/4%
to be passed on to subborrouers (Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement). The loan



- 15 -
is expected to be committed by December 31, 1978 md fully disbursed by
December 31, 1980. Following standard DFC practice, amortization of the loan
would conform to the amortization schedules of individual subloans.
57.       Subloan Terms and Conditions.   Subloans would be for up to 15 years,
including a reasonable grace period not to exceed three years. The maximum
amount of individual subproject financing would be governed by BISA's exposure
limit, which is defined in BISA's policy statement (paragraph 46). Subloans
would be denominated in US dollars. BISA would relend Bank funds at the highest
legal interest rate on foreign official funds (now 12% per annum). It would
also charge its borrowers a commitment fee on the undisbursed balance (now 1%
per annum), a closing fee (2-3% one-time charge), and the Government's fee of
1/4% for the exchange risk between the dollar and the currencies disbursed by
the Bank. Subloans to small enterprises channeled through the commercial banks
would also include a 3% per annum guarantee fee charged by the banks.
58.       Approval limits.  The limits for subloans not requiring prior
Bank approval would be raised from US$250,000 under the IDA Credit to
US$600,000 for mining subloans and would be US$300,000 for industrial sub-
loans, in recognition of improvements in BISA's appraisal capability. In
addition, the first two industrial subprojects requiring Bank financing of
over US$30,000 (the limit for small enterprise subloans) would be subject
to Bank approval (Section 2.02(b) of the Loan Agreement). The foregoing
limits would result in Bank review of a representative sample (at least
40% of the Bank loan amount), since mining subloans are expected to average
US$500,000 and industrial subloans US$200,000. A sample of small enterprise
subloans would also be reviewed on a post-approval basis.
59.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement would be in accordance
with standard DFC practice, which normally calls for quotations from
several suppliers. In the case of small enterprise subloans this would not
be required, but BISA would assure itself that goods and services procured
are reasonably priced. Disburements would be made directly to BISA with
notification to the Central Bank. Disbursements would cover the full foreign
exchange cost of direct imports, 35% of construction costs, and 60% of
imported machinery and. equipment purchased locally, both representing their
estimated foreign exchange component (see Section 2.02(a) of the Loan Agreement).
Foreign equipment suppliers are fairly well represented in Bolivia.
The Proposed IFO Investment
60.       The proposed IF^ investment *iould be for up to $bll million
(US$550,000 equivalent) for 100,000 of BISA's common shares of par value
5blOO each at the price of $bllO per share. It would be paid in from 1976
to 1978 and would be matched pari passu by payments from other sources of at
least double the amount (paragraph 54) This would be reflected in the share
subscription agreement. The proposed investment would make IF'3 an important
shareholder in BISA, with about 15d of share capital in 1978.   IFC's first
payment under the subscription agreement is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Bank loan (Section 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Economic Benefits and Justifications
61.       Based on an analysis of BISA's list of projects under consideration,
it is expected that the economic rate of return (EER) of the mining subprojects
to be financed under the proposed loan, like those being financed by the IDA
Credit, would exceed 40%. The high ERR is not surprising since most of BISA's
mining subloans are for the improvement and expansion of existing mines. ERRs
of new operations would be much lower. Projections indicate that the mining
subprojects are likely to make contributions to Bolivia's net foreign exchange
earnings of about US$115 million (net of import requirements) and to government
revenues of nearly US$50 million, cumulative from inception up to 1985.
Production increases are expected to account for about 20% of the output of
medium mines and for some 5% of the cumulative mining output of Bolivia over
the same period. Dad to the need for relatively capital-intensive production
methods, direct employment created would be relatively minor, about 650 jobs.
Some improvement could be expected in health and safety conditions as a
consequence of expansion and modernization of the mines, and in the standard
of living of mine workers as a result of associated investment in on-site
housing and infrastructure facilities.
62.        Due to the variety of industrial subprojects, it is not possible
ex ante to estimate the ERR for this part of the loan. BISA assures itself,
however, of the economic viability of the subprojects it finances, and does
not normally finance projects with an ERR of less than 12%t   A review of the
evaluations of 10 recently approved industrial subprojects showed an average
economic rate of return of 22%, which is satisfactory. The industrial sector
review undertaken in connection with the appraisal of this project also
concluded that Bolivian industry on the whole is only moderately protected,
and appears to have been developing along the lines of comparative advantage
(para. 27). In addition, it shows that potential still exists for efficient
import substitution projects, such as those BISA normally finances. Ihe
employment potential of industrial subprojects is difficult to quantify,
but is expected to exceed that of mining. This should be particularly true
of the small enterprise subprojects. A sample of 12 such firms (which
previously received BISA financing) showed a favorable ratio of US$3,500
assets/job on the average, an indication of their considerable employment
potential. The part of the loan for small enterprises and artisans should
be regarded as a pilot operation which would help provide the Bank with
information and experience to lay the basis for a possible larger involvement
at a later date, and in this way complement the Bank's efforts to help the
urban population at a lower income level.
63.        Scarcity of term credit has continued to be a major deterrent to
the growth of the mining and processing industries, in which Bolivia has a
comparative advantage. Several years of political stability and increased
export earnings have improved prospects for privatd investments, and have
further intensified credit needs. The proposed project, consisting of a
Bank loan and an IFC investment, would contribute both directly and indirectly
to help fill this major gap-in financing. It would provide term financing
for private mining and industrial projects, including projects of small
industrial enterprises, while at the same time contributing to the further
development of BISA as the principal lending institution of the Thia



- 17 -
private sector. The project would also contribute to the development of
the Bolivian capital market by supporting BISA's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources through bond issues and additional share capital.
Although the amount to be raised is relatively minor, initial success in
this aotivity could break the ground for much larger issues in the future,
wqhich could help meet the considerable working capital needs of Bolivian
industry.
64.       IFC's Dotential impact on BISA and on the development of the
Bolivian private sector would be particularly significant at this point in
time. As stated in paragraph 54 above, availability of share capital
represents the principal bottleneck to BISA's growth. The proposed invest-
ment and the parallel investments it would induce would allow BISA to
increase its assets by up to US$10 mrilion to help meet the great demand
for term funds by private industrial and minirng enterprises.
65.        The proposed investment could constitute the basis for a mutually
beneficial long-term relationship. BISA could be utilized as an important
investment "window" in Bolivia, which could provide the Corporation with
more opportunities to participate directly in the development of the
Bolivian private sector. The investment is estimated to have a discounted
rate of return exceeding 10% in current dollars, which is acceptable. The
Bolivian Government views the proposed TFC investment favorably.
66.         There are no unusual risks involved in the project.  While not
probable, it is however possible that delays in obtaining local subscrip-
tions to BISA's share capital could result in some delays in the disburse-
ment of both the loan and investment. Also, since it would be the first
time that BISA would try to issue bonds in the domestic market, some unfore-
seen setbacks could occur. A continuation of the presently depressed
conditions of the mineral market could also result in a slowdown of loan
commitments.  However, medium-term market prospects are reasonably good.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.         he draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BISA, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, the text of a draft resolution approving the pro-
posed loan and the text of a resolution approving the proposed IFC invest-
ment, are being distributed to the Ebecutive Directors separately.
68.       In accordance with Article III, Section 3(ii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Corporation notice of the proposed IFC subscription
has been given to the Government of Bolivia.



- 18 -
69.       The Republic of Bolivia has not signed the ICSID Convention.   In
any event, in the context of the proposed investment, there are no arrangements
between the Republic of Bolivia and a private investor which might give rise
to an investment dispute.
70.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
IV.
71.       A special condition of loan effectiveness is IFC's first payment
under its subscription agreement (Section 6.01(c)).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the proposed investment would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Corporation.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that:
(a) The Executive Directors of the Bank approve the proposed loan
and that,
(b)  the Board of Directors of the Corporation approve the proposed
Investment by the Corporation.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachnents
June 22, 1976



a l a5 pages
TASBLE 3A
BOLIVIA                                     O OILiWCIR  ATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)...........
TOTfAL   1098 6                                                             :~~~BLIVA  EFERERCE CO:NTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       108.                                            OST RECENT
ARANLE  ..                      ~~~~~      ~~~~~1960  1970  ESTIMAT E  CAMEROll        HONDU AS       PERU*
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                         110.0       160.0 ----                ------ 210.0                         --0.0 510.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Pop ULATION (MIDOYR, MILLION)                3.e         4 .9        5.3                  5.6         2.5        13.3
POPULATION DENSTTY
PER S§UA"RE KM.                           I.0          4.0         5.0                17.0         22.0        11.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARAOLE LAND                  ....                                      88.0           .        400.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDEaBIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            45.0         44.0        44.0                4.            90         4.
CRUOE DEA TH RATE PER THEUS AND          430           9                                380  10    19.0        11.00
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)            2..         1954.        i  0                2 ..           ..        65..)I:
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BRPTI- CYRSl            6.4.                    704.                             ,.          5. 0
GROSS REPRUDUCTION . RATE                  ..         52.8         2.80                2.7         49.o         2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE CI)                                            2a2.                             3h29
TOTAL                                     2. 4         2 . 6       2.6                 2.0          3.1.        2. 9
URB AN                                      ...                      .6.0                            7.9        5.0
URBA4 POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)                 ....2 0. 0                                              32.0        5 3. 0
AGE STRUCTURE. (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YLARS                           42.0a       41 .9          .                  30167                   4.
15 TO 64 Y.:ARS                          5.            46.54 3.0                                   50.79       52.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                         4. 0        1.5           2.302.,                                     30   ai
AGE OEPENOENCY RATIO                         0.9         0.8           ..                  .9         1 .0         0.9  /A
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1 .0 /a~    1 .0 /a       .                  121.                      .
FAM41L .-..NNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, TI'nu)               .            ..                              .         1.
USLRS (2 CF MARRIED WOMEN)                  .            ..
EMPLOYMECNT
ToTA LAV09 FORCE (THOUSAND)              2J00.0      2300.0            ..              800.0        8 0 0.0    4 300. 0
LABOR FORCE IN AiGRICULTURCE CX)            6.           60.                              20         6.           ..
UNEMPLOYED (2 OF LABO9 FORCE)          1 4. 0       16 .0          .                              80             D
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
O PNVATE INCOME REC'O BY-
HIGHEST   52 OF POPULATION                  .         3 6. 0        .                    .32.9                 3 1.4 
HIGHEST 202 OF POPULATICN                  ..        59.0            ..6.3                                      26 
LOwEST   2 02 OF POPULATION                 .          4 .0                                         65 .  .6   128 6
L)..EST  4 02 OF POPULATION                 .        1 3 .0         1.                                 6         .3 a 
DISTF'13UTION OF LAND OWNE8SI-1I64 
Z OWFJED AT TOP 10Z OF OWNERS                  ...                                          ..                   90
2 OWNED By SMALLEST 102 O6NFRS                .            -.                               ..                      .
HEALTHi AND NUTRITION1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN3700.0 /c          2300.0           .               56.           700    ~   12.
POPULATIO4 PLR NUQSI%G     ES'N.                       730..25960 .0                               370.0       1920C.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL UZI)              580.0        '.90.0          .                48 0.0      570.0       470. 0
PER CAPITA SLPPLY OF -
CALORIES (2 07 REGUIFEMENTS)             69. 0        77 .0       7 9. 0              9 6.0        9 6.0       90a. 0
POTEWIN (GANMSAPE    AND PLE           43.0         46.0        46.0                 59.0        58.0        62.0
-OF AHIC, ANIMAL AND PULSE  ..        ~~~~~14.C/b                      2 3.0 /a     2 5.0       2 4. 0
DEATHi RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                   .-
EDUCATION
ADJISTED ENROLLMENT RATIO)
PRIMARY SC-1OOL                          67.0        96.0           .                  00          9.          1.
SECONDAHY SCHOOL                         110          1.C                                .0        910.0      415.0
YEARS OF SCHUOLING PROVIDED                 10           3C90                                           .          10
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 1 3. 0      12 .0        1 2. 0              14.-0 /b     1 2.0       1 2. 0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                         1 4. 0      1 3.0        1 0.0a              22. 0        to8.0       17.0
ACULT L ITERACY RAT E (2)                     .         38 .0          .
HOUS ING
P-EASONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE).                                             ..                              -
OCCUP IED DWC~LINGS WI THOUT
PIPED WATER CI)                          89.0 Ls        .           .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     22. 0 L.
RURAL DRIELLINGS cONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                        8.0 /a        --.
CONSUM4PTION
RADI   REEIVERS (PER THOU npP)             7 3. 0     28 8.0           .3 6.0                        57.0       1 34. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               3.0          4.0          .                  6.0          5.0        17.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              1 18.0      1 60 .0      1 68. 0             200.0        12 0.0      40 7. 0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   1.0          1.0         09.                               .            .
SEE NOTES- ;ANC  ErNTNS       NRVEE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between, 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recant Estimate between 1971
and 1973.
Peru has been selected ao as objective coutry because of similar natural conditiona and cesip-rble humias and resource endo,mants.
BOLIVIA      1960    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;     lb  1965;    Ic  1963.
1970    /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;     /b  1964-66.
CAMEROON     1970    /a  1964-66:    /b  13 years for East Cameroon.
HNDvURAS     1970    la  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;     /b  1967-68, households;    /c  Registered, not all practicing
in the country.
PERU         1970    /a  Excludes Indian jungle population;    /b  Urban areas only;    Ic  Econuically active popuLation;     /d  Including evenLng schools.
R3, March 16, 1976
DEFItTTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
land Areat (thou kos2)                                                                Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of practicing
Tot-al -Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                      male and female graduate nurses, "trained' or "certified', nurses, and
Arable   M ost recent estimate of land saras used temporarily or permanently            auxiliar-y personnel with training or experience.
for cultivation, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.             Poulation.per hosp)ital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
availal   inpublic and private general and specialized hospital and
GNP per capita (US$) - ON? per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-                rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homiis and establishments for
lated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-74 basis).                  custodial and preventive care.
Per capita suppl offca:lories (%f requirements) - Computed from energy
Popuation and vital statistics                                                          equivalent of net food supplies avaiabl=e     country per capita per day;
Poultion (mid-yr. million) - As of July firsts if not available, average             available supplies comprise domastic production, imports less expots,
of two end-year estimates,                                                            and changes in stock; not supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantitie:
used in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements were
PopulatiTond desit  -er square los    Mid-year population per square kilo-              estimated by PAO based on pbysiological needs for normal activity,
mae  (0  ectares) of t,otal area,                                                and health considering environmental temperature, body weights, age and
2opulation desity - per square kms Of-arable lare - Computed as above for               sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at household
arheln  nly,                                                                   level.
Per caiaspl         fpotein (gras    per day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                        caiantspl          oi foo  per may; net supply of food is defined as
Crude birth -rate pe  thusnd - Aninual live births par thousand of mid-                 above; requirements for all countries established by USDA Economic
yerpplti.           u   l  five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                 Research Services provide for a iminimumi allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                        proteirn per day, and 20 grama of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death rate perthousand - Annual deaths par thousand of mid-year                   grams should be aniral protein, tbose standards are lover than those of
population; usu-ally five-year averages endung in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 75 grans of total protein and 23 gramns of animal protein as an avera.ge
for developing countries,                                                             for the world, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food Suirvey.
1Thfac,t mortality rate (Uthou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year             Per caitafpote     supl    fro  anmalgand pulse - Protein supply of food
aepr  usen~ivebirths.                                                          deie     rmaiasadples in grm              par day.
LifeMectncyat birth ayr) - Average number of years of life remain-                Dahrate      t~hou   esg 1     Annual deaths peir thousand in age group 1-4
ing at birth;usal      five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                           toecren t          s4 age group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
1975 for developing countries,                                                        nutrition.
GEgs,,ef?1ct1o.rate - Average number of livo daughters a worman will
.Irpoutv                  period if she experiences present age-             Education
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Adjut:edenrollmnt ratio -_primar     school - Enrollment of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                               pacntg        Pr prmayc     1o-agepopultion, includes ehildren aged
____laton__   owt  rate (%)- total - Compownd annual growth rates of mid-               6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary edwration;
yer lopation for 19   0, 0--70, and 1960 to most recent. year.                    for countries with universal edulcation, enrollmenrt may exceed 100%
~Prulation growth rats (I) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                 since some pupils   are below or above the official school age.
population; different definitions of urban areas mey affect comipara-               Aistd     nrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; second-
bility of data among countries.                                                       ar   dcton requires at least four y-ears of approved primary instruc-
Ur,ban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-               tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
ferent definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data                    pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; cor,respondence courses are generally
among countries,                                                                      excluded.
Agai     lurerc.nt) - Children (0-la years), working-age (l5-64 years),               Years of schooling prvdede(efirsvt0and secondlevels) - Total years of
an  eHe       ega-rs and over) as perceontages of mid-year population,             shoigatecnrylv,vctoalnstruction may be partially
,..f     ratioi - Ratio of population under IS and 65  n   vrt                 or completely excluded.
.~~Fgs iI3T   roougn 64,.                                                      Vocational enrolmnt (ofseodary) - Vocational institutions include
Econ.ouiicdpncc  a  R1.ro     - Iaic) of population under 15 and 65 and over            technical, industraiaoorfotiar programs which operate independently or
to ti e      tI~ig          group of 15 -6h years.                                    as depatmens.of secondary institutions.
F,nl    lnig-icetr            ciiaie       thou) - Cumulative niumber of              Adult lieayrte (%) - Literate adults (able to read and writs) as par-
acceptors of blrth-control devices uinder auspices of national family                 centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
ol  p1,a n  -users  %o   marieydoman) -Percentages of married                   o"
F,  -1 ~  ~    ~    eanwh     ue    irhcotrl      e-Prsons per room (average) - Average number of parsons per room in occupie,
vices to all married women in sane age group,                                         conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non~perimanent
structures and unoc copiedprs
Occ;upied dwellings withoutd pipedwater (%) - Occupied conventional dwell-
Tta-la-bor forc  thouand) - Economically active persons, including                   ings in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water
ane fre  ud     lo-ed but excluding housew-ives, students, eto.;               facilities as percentage of all. occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                Access to electnricity  I % of all dwellings) - ConventionalI dwellings with
Labor force iagriculture ()-Agricultural labor force kin farming,                       electricity ilvng quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
foesr,      uting and fishing) as percentage of total labor fawco.                    and rural areas.
laoIoc)                nmlyd      r    sal    dfnda prosRrl                       wlig      onetdt        lectricity (%) - Computed as above for rural
an               oc)-Ualydaeuulydfnda                          pesoBwe~!lling                  o-eced t
-amnined out of a job, and seeking work for a specified ainirium
period not exceeding one week; may not be comparable between coup-                  Cognsmtion
trios due to different definitions of unemployed and souxrce of data,               Rad   orcivers     ort   ou  "' - All types of receivers for radio broad-
cg., emlyetofiesaitis                apesuvy,cmuloye                -genera                           pub ic, par thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ployment insurance,                                                                   receivers in countries and in years whien registration of radio sets was
in effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since most coup-
Income distribution - Percentage of prlvate income (both in cash and                    tries abolished licensing.
O~nd) received by- richest 5%, richest 20%, pooract 20%, and poorest                           cars   er thou po) - Passoniger cars comprise motor cars seating
40% of population.                                                                    1;.i  tAiene{.g.t pe.rsonsI excludes ambulances, hearses and military
v-ehicles.
Distribution of land ci-nership - Perc6ntages of land owned by wealthiest             El-,rcty(h               cp   - Annual consumption of induBtrial, cocmaer-
~0E ed porest10% of land owners,                                                    il pbi      andfprivate, electricity in k-iowatt hours per capita; gen-
erally based on produaction data, without allowance for losses in grids
Health and Nutrition                                                                    hut allowing for imparts and exports of electricity.
Poul .I n per r yeTc!.co - Population  dLvided by number of practictng               Nesrn      kzy    e  cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
precasqua i7t2ferromn a medical school at univeraity level,                      etmated i'rom domestic prodaction plus cot imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 
BOLIVIA
ECONOMI1C DEVELOPMENT DATA
(A ... n a iW 1-9-73 015S MiIIos...
Actual              Estimated      Proi.cted         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
1968    1971       1973      1975      1977       1980     1968-71   1971-73     1974-77    1978-80       1968        1971       1972,
NATTONAL ACCOUNTrS                           3-Year A-Ierae at 1973 Prices& Exch.sae Rate                  A-erage An...al Gro-th Ratsa                 As Prcec   of GDY
GIross Dotnesic Prod.ct                  826.3   921.6   1,035.3    1,138.1   1,296.7   1,617.9          3.7       6.0        7.8        11.7       98.7       98 0        96.2
T-rs of T-ade Effect                      10.1    19.0      50.7       25.8      49.5      78.6           .         ...                              1.c3       2 0         3 2
Crass ')enent- Inc-t                     836.4   940.6   1,086.0    1,163.9   1,346.2   1,696.5          4.0       7.4        7.4        12.3      100.0      180.0       100 c
lop-rts (-ol    NF'S)                    301.4   383.8     347.7     502.7      549.8     676.4         0.3        7.0       16.5        10.9       36.0       32.3       '.0 1
E.o-orro     (inpo-t capacity)           265.2   276.2     351.4      346.4     441.1     T9 3.9         1.4     1r2.8        -        -1 6.8       31 .7     2T9.4       3T2-. 
tR--ore B.lacc    (-SurPl-s)              36.2    27.6     -18.2      156.3      82.5        -            -         -          -           -         4.3        2.9         81
(nCe--ptl.ta Eopendit-re                 688.2   776.9     896.4    1,041.8   1,063.4   1,291.8          4.1       7.4        5.8        10.2       82.3       82.6        79.0
1--et-w .( ((u-l. st.cks)                184.3   191.3     185.9     278.4      391.6     487.3          1.2     nagati-e    28.0        11.6       22.0       20 3        29.]
D-n,o( ,, S.OiO.gc                       148.1   163.7     189.6      266.6     282.8     404.8          3.4       7.6       14.3        19.7       17.7       17.4        21 
Na.f -l OSlengs                         128.1   146.5     177.9      258.1     258.9     339.5          4.6      10.1       13.1        14.5       15.3       15.6        19.:
MERCHIANDISE CEAS                                    Asn...l Daca at Corrent Prices                                                                __As Percent of Total
C.p,t.1 G-ods                           71.8    71.1     119.0      270.8     414.2     680.9        negativ-   29.8       52.0        28.0       47.0       42.3        58 f
to. Materials and 1nstrn-di.t. Gooda 47.3       52.2      67.1      113.7     169.4     276.6          3.3      13.4       36.0        78.0       31.0       31.0        24 
F-.l and Labricasto,                    1.6     1.2       2.2       10.3      12.7      17.9       negati-e    35.0       78.0        18.7        1.0        0.8         1.E
Coon-ptios Goodo~                       32.1    43.5      67.2      120.0     108.3     141.1         10.7      24.0       17.3        14.1       21.0       251.9       15.'-
Others
Total Merchandise lsports (CIF)        152.8   168.0     255.5      514.0     704.6   1,116,5          3.2      23.5       40.0        26.0      100.0      100.0       100.0
Voports
Pri..r. Products                       145.8   191.4     268.3     277.7      386.1     588.1          9.6      18.4       17.1        16.8       85.0       88.7        65.4
F.els                                   24.3    23.9      67.0     163.4      198.5     503.6       segativ-    67.8       62.0        50.0       14.3       11.1        13.6
o/. Cr-de Pet-ol-                      (24.3)  (23.9)    (48.9)    (114.6)   (140.0)   (367.0)       negative   43.0       61.0        2.7. 0    (14.3)      (11.1)     (23.27
M .. faotred Goods                       0.4     0.6       3.0        3.9       5.4       8.3         23.0        -        22.0        24.0         .2          .2        1.0
Total march. Eaports (fob)             17-0.5  2i1-5.9  -338.3      445.0     590.0   1,100.0          8.2    2'i 5.0      29-.0       33.0O     100.0      iOU 0       100. 0
Merh.ndioe Trade Ind-ers
Enport ('rict Indeu                     66.7    76.4     100.0      188.6     194.0     249.0          4.6      14.4       24.8        13.3       21.6       2 2 .7      322
Import Pri-o Index                      66.0    75.9     100.0     138.0      173.0     214.9         4.8       14.8       20.0        11.5       21.3       22.6        28 9
Tor-  of Trade loden                   101.1   100.6     100.0      114.9     113.0     119.3       negati-e   negci-e      4.2         2.0       32.7       30.0        10 2
Export, S'o1s-  loden                   75.4    83.5     100.0      83.0      119.7     166.9         3.5        9.4        6.0       18.1        24.4       24.7        20.J
VALUE ADDED HI SECTOR                        Ann.al Data at 1973 Prices sod Each.nge Rates                    Average Aunsal Growth Rates               As Percent of Total
Agri-I W,re                            186.8   201.6     222.6      248.2     273.0     320.0          2.5       5.1        7.1         8.3       22.5        21.9       20.1
IndsL-t,  -~d Mi-sg                   279.7    303.4     338.6     351.8      412.6     534.4         2.7        5.6        6.8       13.8        33.1.      33.0        32.C
Servicen                               365.1   414.0     477.7      538.1     604.7     757.2         4.3        7.4.       8.2        119        43.9       45.1        40.1 
Tots]1 (as2DP)                         831.6   919.0   1,038.9    1,138.1   1,290.3   1,611.6          3.4       6.3        7.5        11.8      100.0      100.0       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE
(Central Do-er-oot)
torret R-eepts                        107.6   112.2     109.2      109.5     140.3     188.0          4.3      -2.4        6.5        10.2       11.9        11.5       10.0
C-rret Enp-ndit-ce                     139     134.4     145.3      168.5     190.1     239.9          7.9       6.3        6.9         0.1       11.5        13.0       14.)
B:dgo.C,rN Saving.                       3.7   -22.2     -36.1      -59.0     -49.8     -51.9           .         ..                               0.4       -23          3.
Otbe, Public Srto- V.,--nB              29.3    54.4      98.2       90.0     134.1     219.2           .         .                                3.2         5.6        0.2
Puhl,C Vector Capital Enpendit.r.      108.2   112.6      98.8      147.5     267.7     301.4          9.5      -5.8       28.2        4.0        12.0       11.6        20.7
CollREAto EXP'ENDITURE DETAILS               Actual
(A. 7. Tcta1 Curr-nt E.pend.)        1968-70   1971-72                                            DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRC          As Percent of Total
(1968-74             1975-8C
Cntr-l Adoi.i-.taio-                    28.7    25.9                                                       Agri.alsuresnd Irrigation               3.0                 3 9
Vafen..                                 13.5    12.8                                                        Mining and Hydrocarbons               39.8                61.1
Efd,,-aion                              27.3    26.3                                                           Industry and Power                 14.9                 9.0
Other Social & Con-onsy Sorv.            9.3    13.5                                                      Transport and Connonications            24.0                17 4
Agri-ult-e                               3.5     3.0                                                    Public Sero  and Social Ser-ices          18.3                 8.7
Otchor                                  17.7    18.5                                                                 Other
SFLECTED I WOICATORS                                                                                                                                         Estinated
(C.sLcultcd fr.. V-Or AoergaRo)t.)ta  1968-70  1971-74   1975-77   1978-80                                         FENANCING                     1968-73    1974       1975-8
loer,Ee (('OR                           6.45     3.00      3.67      4.06                                   Public Sector Savings                 39.8      9OtO         44.14
In.'rt I:1outi-,s                        0.91    1.06      1.13       1.03                                 D-netio Boer-felg (set)                16.6      -44 0        10.5
M-rg-sl D-oetic S-cings Nate            64.97.  24.2%      3.6%      37.4%                                  Foreign Borroing (set)                46.4        29.1       38.0
M-gr-,,l Nationa   5-sissgs Rate        20.57.  28.47.   negoti-e    22.0%                                           Other                        -2.9        23 1         -
(APOR PURCF AND OUTPUT PER WORKCER                      Eoploy.d Labor Force                         VaIoe Added Per Worker (1973 Prices & E.ch.nge Raie)
is Thousands          7. of Total     1970-1974               is 0.1. Dollars     PIccent of Average   Change p.o.
1970      1974       1970      1974   Growth Rate              1960      1970        1960       1970    . 1970-74
Agricl  tore-                        1,271.0  1,383.1     65.4       64.4       2.1                  15.14     17-0.0      733.8      T33.4        2.9
Ixnd-st-v                             26-4. 2   300.6     13.6      14.0        3.3               1,067.8    1,147.6      238.4       225.8        2.0
Sc-ic-                                407.1     463.0     2.0U..     2.16       3.                   938.9   1,6.         209.6       210.2        3.3
.1,1l                              1,942.3   2,146.7    100.0     10 0. 0      2. 5                447.9      508.2      1005.0     100.0         3.2
F-b.cldiog tau., fr,- export enterprises/
Not apps-sHle
Nil or n.gligihle



ANNEX T
Page 4 of 5
BOLLVIA
SUMMARY: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Current U.S. $ millions)
1972       1973      1974      1975       1976      1977       1978      1979      1980       1985
1.  Imports (Cif)                    261       332        504       664        700       817         980      1,15n     1,240     2,521
2. Exports (Cif)                     225       310        614       490       550        650         780        960     1,160     2,880i
3. Balance of Goods & NFS            -36       -22         94      -195      -190       -215        -255       -245      -140       359
4. Factor Services                   -22       -25        -31       -35       -37       -44          -53       -102      -133       -197
Profits                          (-6)      (-6)       (-7)      (-9)     (-11)     (-12)        (-14)      (-50)    (-69)     (-106)
Other (Net)                     (-16)     (-19)      (-24)     (-26)      (-26)     (-32)       (-39)      (-52)    (-64)      (-92)
5.  Current Transfers                 13        15         12        12,       12         12           5          3        3        ---
6.  Current Account Balance          -44       -32         50      -218       -215      -247        -303       -344      -200        162
7.  Direct Foreign Investment        -13         5         10        18        35         58          75         89        90         30
8.  Official Capital Grants            8        10          9        20        25         27          28         26        20          2
9.  Public M & LT Loans (Net)         93         5         41       118       130        142         182        219       141        -23
Disbursements                  (125)      (38)      (95)      (178)     (192       (216)       (266)      (329)     (280)      (199)
Repayments                      (32)      (33)       (54)     (-48)     (-62)      (-74)       (-84)     (-110)    (-139)     (-222)
10. Other M & LT Loans (Net)          15        17         21        23         25        39          42         48        60         10
11. IMF Drawings                       1        12         __        __         __        __          __         __        __         __
12. Other Short 17rml Errers         -42       -20        -15       -16        -10        -5          __         __
& Omissions _
13. Change in Net Reserves           -17        15       -123        55         10       -14         -24        -38       -41       -181
(-Increase)
14. Total Net Reserves                47        31        154        99         89       103          127       165       206        720
(End of Period)
15. Debt Service Ratio                20.9      16,8       12.9       11.4      14.5      16.4         16.5      17.4       17.8     12.2
16. External Public Debt OS V        681       698        723
olv IBRD                        (23)      (23)       (21)
IDA                         (26)      (30)       (39)
17. IBRD-IDA Debt Service              3.1       4.8        4.0
as 7. of Public Debt Service
18. Debt Service as % of GDP           4.6       4.9        4.5
I/ Includes SDR allocation equivalent to US$4.3 million in 1972.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
CONTRACTED PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY GUARANTEED EXTERNAL DEBT,-/ 1969-75
(US$ millions)
1969      1970      1971      1972     1973       1974      1975
Internatic,nal Organizations       30.7       1.4     26.8       11.2      7.2       41.2     137.1
CAF                               -         -       0.1        2.0      1.2        -        41.8
IBRD                            23.3        -        -          -        -         -        32.0
IDA                              7.4       1.4      6.8        8.0      6.0       6.2        7.5
IDB                               -         -      19.9        1.2       -       35.0       55.9
Governments                        30.0      17.2      35.2      71.7     34.1       64.0     106.1
Argentina                        3.2      14.3      4.3        4.2      3.4        2.9        -
Czechoslovakia                    -         -       3,9        1.4       -         -          -
Germany F.R.                     1.7       1.4       -          -        _       28.6         _
United Kingdom                   1.4        -        -         6.8       -         -          -
USA                             22.7       1.5     25.3       40.0     26.5      28.8       22.1
USSR                              -         -        -        15.9       -         -          -
Others                           1.0        -       1.7        3.4      4.2        3.7      84.0
Suppliers' Credits                 11.5       1.6      3.9       27.4     16.6        8.7      10.1
Argentina                          _         -       1.6        5.1      5.9       1.6         -
Belgium                            _                  -          -       5.8       0.1         -
'Canada                            _-                  -         -       3.7         -
Denmark                          0.7        1.3       -         0.8      0.2        -          -
Germany F.R.                      3.9       0.3       -          -        -          -        0.1
Israel                             _-                 -          -        -         -         5.5
Italy                             2.1        -        -        13.9       -         -          -
Japan                              -         -       2.0        6.4       -         -          -
Spain                             3.3        -        -          -        -         -          -
USA                                _         -        -         1.1      0.9       1.9        2.4
Others                            1.5        -       0.3        0.1      0.1        5.1       2.1
Private Banks                       1.3        -       23.3      23.1      9.9       56.0      54.5
Brazil                            _         -      12.0        7.9      4.7      13.5         -
USA                              1.3        -      10.0       12.8      1.5      34.3       48.5
Others                            _         -       1.3        2.4      3.7       8.2        6.0
Other                              14.1       4.1     -0.1       22.7      0.4        3.8        -
Nationalization (USA)                -       78.6        -         -       0.7         -         -
TOTAL .'        87.6     102.9     89.3      156.1     68.9      173.7     307.8
1/ Repayable in foreign currency only.
2/ Net of adjustments and cancellations.
Source: Central Bank, IBRD Social and Economic Data Division.



ANNE( II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS. IN BOLIVlA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1976)
US$ million
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan or
Credit No:   Year    Borrower      Purpose       Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits            23.3    30.6      -
261        1971    Bolivia      Livestock       -       6.8      1.4
3L6        1972    Bolivia       Railways       -       8.0       .3
433        1973    Bolivia       Power          -       6.0       .2
L55        1974    Bolivia       Mining         -       6.2      4.2
561        1975    Bolivia      Agriculture     -       7.5      7.5
1121       1975    ENFE          Railways      2&7      -       2h.7
1/
1211       1976    Bolivia       Rural Dev,     9.5     -        9.5
TOTAL                               61.5     65.1     47.o
Of which has been repaid            3.o     0.4
Total held by Bank and IDA          57.7     6h.7
Total undisbursed                                     47.8
R.   WfATMFmNT nF IFr INVJISMENTS (as of April 30, 1976)
Amount in US$ million
Year        )bligor           Type cf Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1973    Plasmar, S.A.    Cables and Plastic Products   0.3-     0.1     0.4
1/ Niot yet effective.
2/  Of which, US$O.l million is a standby loan.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million,
June 25, 1971; Effective Date:  September 15, 1971; Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
After implementation slowed down in 1974, the project is now
proceeding as scheduled and the credit should be fully disbursed by the
closing date of June 30, 1977.
Credit 346-Bo - Railwa Project, IJS$8 million, December l, 1972; Effective
Date: Febru     21, 1973; Closing Date:  June 30, 1976
All of the funds under the project have been committed. Due to
inflation, however, the funds available under the credit have been
insufficient to procure all of the items included in the project. About
50% of the items planned for procurement for the first project, have been
deferred for purchasing under the second railway project. Materials and
equipment ordered under the project did not begin to arrive in Bolivia until
the last quarter of 1974. Improvements have been made in the management
operations, financial condition and tariff structure of the railway.
Credit 433-BO Third ENDE Power Project, US$6 million, October 17 1973;
Effective Date: December 11, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project was initially delayed due to unexpectedly long
delivery time for the gas turbines originally planned to be installed
at Santa Cruz. Project progress is now satisfactory. Cost overruns
are currently at about 34% over the original estimates of project
cost. ENDE will finance the overruns with its own fund".
Credit 455-BO - Mining Credit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 19T7-
Effective Date: June 18, 197h; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Credit 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railw   Proect, US$28.7 million, June 5, 1975-
Effective Date: Aug-ust 6, 1975; Closinfz Date: December 31, 197d.
The Borrower has arranged bilateral financing for locomotives
in the project and in accordance with the understanding reached with the
Pank, the loan amount has been adjusted downward from 332 million to
;328.7 million. Project progress has been satisfactory with performance
tar,cts either having been attained or exceeded.
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project, US$9.5 millior, Mlarch 8,
19770  Effective Date:            ; Closing Date:   June 30, 1952.
It is anticipated that the loan will become effective in the
near future.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BOLIVIA - Banco Industrial Mining and Industrial
Credit Project - Bank Loan, IFC Investment,
and Project SummLary
Borrower                       Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary:                    Banco Industrial, S.A.
Loan Amount:                    US$10 million equivalent.
IFC Investment:                Up to $b 11 million (US$550,000 equivalent)
for 100,000 common shares of par value $b 100
each at the price of $b 110 per share.
Loan Terms:                     Repayable substantially in conformity with
the aggregate of the amortization schedules
for subloans. Interest at 8.85% per annum.
IFC Investment Terms:          The IFC investment would be paid in between
1976 and 1978 and would be matched pari passu
by payments from other sources of at least double
the amount.
Relending Terms to BISA:       The Republic of Bolivia will relend to BISA on
the same terms as those contained in the loan
from the Bank, except that BISA shall repay its
loan in US dollars or US dollar equivalent
equal to the US dollar equivalent of currencies
withdrawn from the loan amount. The Government
will assume the risk of loss resulting from
changes in the exchange rate between the dollar
and the currencies withdrawn from the loan
account. The Government will charge BISA a
fee of 1/4% for assuming this risk.
BISA Relending Terms to        Up to fifteen years, including a grace period
Sub-borrowers:                 of up to three years.   Interest would be at
12% per annum, with a 2 to 3% one time closing
fee, a commitment fee of 1% on the undisbursed
balance and a fee of 1/4% to cover the risk
of loss resulting from changes in the exchange
rate between the dollar and the currencies
withdrawn from the loan account. Subloans
will be denominated in US dollars.
Purpose:                        The loan will help finance the foreign exchange
cost component of projects in the private
mining and industrial sectors. The IFC
investment will increase the subscribed
share capital of BISA directly, and indi-
rectly, by requiring a 2:1 pari passu in-
vestment from other sources. It is estimated



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
that 70% of loan funds will be used for relending
to the private mining sector and 30% to the
industrial sector. Loans to small enterprises
(less than US$50,000 equity and 50 employees)
will receive an estimated 10% of the proposed
loan.
Approval Limits:                US$600,000 for mining subloans and US$300,000
for industrial subloans. The first two indus-
trial subprojects requiring Bank financing of
over US$30,000 (the limit for small enterprise
subloans) would be subject to Bank approval.
Final Date for Subloan          December 31, 1978.
Submissions:
Debt Covenants:                 Maximum debt/equity ratio 7:1. (composed of a
6:1 regular ratio and an additional 1:1 ratio
for debt securities).
Estimated Loan                                   (US$'000)
Disbursements:                  Fiscal Year      Annually      Cumulative
1977               300          300
1978            2,600         2,900
1979            4,500         7,400
1980            2,400         9,800
1981              200        10,000
Procurement:                    Procurement would follow standard DFC practice.
Rate of Return:                 In view of the variety of subprojects to be
financed it is difficult to specify an economic
rate of return. Based, however, on experience
with mining subloans under the first IDA Credit,
and on an analysis of a list of subprojects
under consideration, the economic rate of return
on mining subprojects should exceed 40%. BISA
does not finance industrial subprojects with
an economic rate of return less than 12% and
recent experience shows an average rate of
return for industrial projects of 22%.
Staff Project Report:           Report No. 1132-BO, dated June 4, 1976.



.NNEX III
Page 3 of 3
ACTUAL                P R O J E C T E D
1975      1976      1977     1978     1979      1980
Years ending December 31                                                            (in $b million)
Projected Operations (loans and equity)
Approvals                                                       216       248      281      ,314      349      384
Commitments                                                    185        243      268      301       334      370
Disbursements                                                  122        185      269      301       321      356
Projected Balance Sheets
Current assets                                                  91        123      179       211      262      305
Portfolio (net)                                                186        301      466      623       766      900
less current portion                                      (70)      (101)    (143)    (179)     (224)    (267)
Other assets                                                     4          5        6         6        7        7
Total assets                     211        328      508      661       811      945
Current liabilities                                             44         61       62        88      122      152
4edium-and long-term debt                                       124       208      360       471      562      647
Other liabilities                                                 5         6        8        10       10       13
Equity                                                          38         53       78        92      116      134
Total Liabilities and equity     211        328      508      661       811      945
Contingent liabilities                                          45         53       59        66       74       81
Debt/equity ratio                                              4.9        5.5      5.9      6.2       6.1      6.2
Projected Income Statements
Total income                                                     24        36       54        77       97      115
Financial expenses                                                7        11       20        31       43       54
Administrative expenses                                           7         8        9        10       11       13
Other expenses and provisions                                     7        11       18        22       27       28
Net profit                                                        3         6        7        14       16       20
Net profit as % of average equity                                10        12       11        16       16       16



ANNEX IV
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:      One year (December 1974/December 1975).
(b)  Agency which prepared project:      Banco Industrial, S.A. (BISA)
(c)  Project first presented to the      The project is an outgrowth of the
Bank:                             1974 IDA Mining Credit (455-BO) and
it was discussed during the Supervision/
Identification Mission that took place
in December 1974.
(d) First Bank mission to review
project:                            December 1974
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:     November 1975
(f)  Completion of negotiations:         May 26, 1976
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:      October 31, 1976
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank is not planning any special implementation actions.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       As an incentive for BISAts capital market development efforts, the
Bank would expand the debt/equity ratio from 6:1 to 7:1 to allow for an
additional 1:1 ratio for bond resources mobilized in the domestic market
(para. 50).
2.       BISA will undertake a study to determine the feasibility of selling
debt securities of at least one year in the domestic market and will use its
best efforts to carry out a program for the sale of such securities, so as
to have the equivalent of US$2 million worth of securities outstanding by
December 31, 1978 (para. 53).
3.       The Government will assume the exchange risk between the dollar and
the currencies disbursed by the Bank for a nominal fee to be paid by BISA
and passed on to the sub-borrowers (para.56).
4.       A special condition of loan efiectiveness would be IFC's first
Davment under its subscription agreement (para. 60).



/ /   22 zon _gGurieTe~ao a4 Mli 14
CO6I.~A i  ~4°                   Rj 0                                       B OBOLIVIA
KILOLEIERS 
k&&.                      Q~~~~~~~~~TRINIDAD
.4"~~~~4
'4 ii,             /Jr                                     I
/ 4'MA in road.
AUGUST  1971  IBD I T                                                    Se.oy  r
........Dopartme.t bo.nd-ratS
AltaliS
~y~ A   R G                   'N   A                           aeoVlly
'S                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Saat., C-ao-yacuiba lisPipolian
AUGUST 1971                                                                                                             IBRD 2S20R1



