Document of
The World Bank  FILE  COPy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1132a-BO
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 4, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This d)cument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All currency amounts are quoted in Pesos
Bolivianos ($b) and US Dollars (US$)
$b 1.00          US$o.o50
$b20.OO          US$1.00
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADELA         ADELA Investment Company, S.A.
BAB           Banco Agricola de Bolivia
BAMIN         Banco Minero de Bolivia
BISA          Banco Industrial, S.A.
BHN           Banco Hipotecario Nacional
CAMARA        Bolivian National Chamber of Industries
CBF           Corporacion Boliviana de Fomento
COMIBOL       Corporacion Minera Boliviana
CXT           Common External Tariff
DFC           Development Finance Company
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FOMEX         Fondo Nacional de Exportacion
IDB           Interamerican Development Bank
INI           Instituto Nacional de Inversiones
L/Cs          Letters of Credit
AMM           Association of Medium Miners
UNION         Union de Bancos Bolivianos
USAID         US Agency for International Development
MMM           Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY                                           i-xii
I.   THE MINING SECTOR ..                          .... ............        1
A.   The Bank Group's Participation in the Sector   ......            1
B.   Contribution to the Economy .....           ..................   1
C.   Sectoral Structure .....       .................                 3
D.   Financing of Mining ...............................              4
E.   Development Constraints and Requirements ..........              5
II.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ..................................               7
A.   Contribution to the Economy .....           ..................   7
B.   Industrial Finance .         ...............................    10
C.   Industrial Policies and Public Institutions .......    10
1.  Protection .................... ................. *..............    10
2.  Investment Incentives .....         ....................    12
3.  Taxation . .....        ..........   .....................    13
4.  Export Promotion .....         .........................    13
D.   Problems and Outlook for the Industrial Sector ....    14
III.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR . .............. ....................    15
A.   Recent Developments  ..              ................... . ....... .    15
B.   Financial Institutions .....          .......................    15
C.   Monetary Policy ...................................    19
D.   Interest Rates ..... ................ ......... .....................    20
E.   Financial Constraints and Prospects  *......*.........          22
F.   Project Implications ..............................    23
This report has been prepared by Messrs. J.Z. Mirskl, T. Hutcheson and
N. Santiago of LAC Projects Dept., DFC, with the assistance of Mr. J. Richter,
of LAC Country Programs Dept. It is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission, led by Mr. Mirski, which visited Bolivia in November-December 1975.
The mission was assisted by Mr. R. Rodger of the Industrial Projects Dept.,
Mr. R. Kanchuger of LAC Programs Dept., and Mr. P. Knotter of LAC Projects
Dept., DFC.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties.-Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   BANCO INDUSTRIAL, S.A. (BISA) ..................    ........    24
A.   Organization, Policies and Procedures ...        ..........   24
1.  Establishment and Objectives ......... .........   24
2.  Ownership and Board of Directors . .............       24
3.  Management and Staff ........... ..      .............   26
4.  Appraisal and Supervision ......... .. ..........    29
5.  Procurement and Disbursement ..................   30
B.   Policy Statement and Strategy Paper ............    ...    30
C.   Operations           ........................................    30
1.  Lending Operations ............ ..      ..............    30
2.  Small Industrial Enterprise Credit ...........    .    31
3.  Equity Investments and Other Operations .......        32
D.   Financial Structure and Results ................    ...    32
1.  Financial Structure ........... ..      ..............    32
2.  Profitability and Dividend Yield ..............   33
3.  Portfolio Quality and Reserves ...... ..........   34
4.  External Audit .............. ..       .........       35
E.   Resource Position and Requirements ..........               35
1. Resource Position and Domestic
Resource Mobllization ......... .. ............    35
2.  Demand for the Proposed Loan ..         ................    36
3.  Share Capital Requirements and Financing Plan..    36
F.   Projected Operations, Financial Structure
and Results ..................       ...................    37
1.  Projected Operations ........... ..      .............    37
2.  Financial Structure ........... ..      ..............    37
3.  Profitability and Dividend Yield .............    .    38
FINANCIAL TABLES
4-4   Analysis of Loans Approved .....        ...................   40
4-5   Small Industrial Enterprise Credit - Summary of
Loans Approved .................. .........         .   41
4-6   Status of Equity Investments, December 31, 1975 ...   42
4-7   Audited Balance Sheets as of December 31 .... ......  43
4-8   Audited Profit and Loss Statements for Periods
Ending December 31 ......        ........................   44
4-9   Status of Arrears as of December 31, 1975 .... .....  45
4-10  Loans in Arrears Over Three Months as of
December 31, 1975 ..............   0 ................   46
4-11  Statement of Loans Rescheduling ................. .   .   47
4-12  Resource Position as of December 31, 1975 .                48
4-13  Long-term Borrowings as of December 31, 1975               49
4-14  Projected Operations ............................   50
4-15  Projected Balance Sheets as of December 31 ........  51
4-16  Projected Sources and Applications of Funds for
Periods Ending December 31 ...... o      ..............    52
4-17  Projected Profit and Loss Statements for Periods
Ending December 31 .............................    53



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN AND IFC INVESTMENT ....           ..........    54
A.   Previous Operations .................       *  .............    54
B.   The Proposed Bank Loan ............ ..         ..............    55
1.  General Description .        . .........................    55
2.  Subloan Terms .........................       ...........    55
3.  Approval Limits ......        .........................    57
4.  Procurement and Disbursement ...............      ...    57
C.   The Proposed IFC Investment ...................       ....    57
VI.   BENEFITS AND JllSTIFICATION .............................    58
A.   General .....................         ......................    58
B.   The Proposed Bank Loan ............................    58
C.   The Proposed IFC Investment .......................    59
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........ .........    60
A.   Agreements Reached ..............     ..     ................    60
B.   Recommendations ......         .............................    61
ANNEX
1.   Declaration of Policy and Procedures ...................    62
2.   Strategy for the Conduct of BISA's Activities ....          ......    69
3.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File    75
4.   Bolivian Laws Applying to Banco Industrial and to the
Proposed Investment ..................................    76
MAP






STAFF PROJECT REPORT INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
Reprint of the Sector and Project Sections
of the President's Report
PART I - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Mining Sector
1.        Mining has traditionally exerted a dominant influence on the
Bolivian economy. Despite difficult terrain, which makes mining costly, it
is an important sector in which Bolivia has a comparative economic advantage,
and accounts for about two-thirds of merchandise exports. As a capital-
intensive activity, mining employs only about 3% of the labor force, but
several hundred thousand Bolivians depend on it for their livelihood.
2.        Mining operations are carried out by public and private sector
enterprises, the latter consisting of medium and small mining firms. The
public sector includes all the largest mines, which belong to the Corporacion
Minera Boliviana (COMIBOL) and which account for over 50% of mineral exports
and 40% of employment. COMIBOL is beset by serious problems of over-
centralization, inefficiency, and excessive welfare expenditures, the resolu-
tion of which would require difficult political decisions.
3.        Medium mining consists of 29 private firms, both local and foreign
owned, which form an Association of Medium Miners. Its members must have
share capital of at least US$100,000 and a certain minimum monthly production.
The rest of the private sector is referred to as small mining. It includes
some 2,000 operating mines, varying in size from family operations to com-
panies approaching the size of medium mining enterprises.
4.        As a group, medium miners are the most efficient segment of the
sector; they account for 22% of the mining exports and 28% of mining taxes.
Their mines are relatively modern and capital intensive. Thus, they employ
relatively less labor than the public or small mining subsectors, but pro-
vide their workers with better working and living conditions. While some
larger firms are gradually becoming diversified corporations with holdings
in agriculture, industry and banking, the number of medium mining companies
has been and will be increasing as the larger and more efficient units of
the small mining subsector continue to develop. This natural process would be
greatly accelerated through a small mining development project, which is being
considered separately by the Bank.
5.        Recent developments in the mining sector have been disappointing.
Even apart from temporary adverse effects of deteriorating market conditions
for major minerals since 1975, the sector's contribution to GDP has been
declining for some time, reflecting the existence of deep-seated structural



- ii -
problems. These include inadequate exploration, undercapitalization and
inadequate maintenance of the existing mines, especially small ones, and an
excessive dependence on tin mining. Past political instability, antiquated
mining policies and a virtual lack of long-term credit have discouraged mining
investment and have been mainly responsible for the present situation.
6.        The present Government is determined to resolve some of these pro-
blems by initiating better planning and new policies aiming at more equitable
mining taxes, establishing a central fund to finance exploration, and opening
of public lands for joint exploitation by public and private interests. The
gradual change from the production tax--which under- or over-charges the
miners, depending on market conditions, and discourages efficient mining--
to a profit tax is expected to induce private investment to modernize and
expand existing operations and to search for new mineral reserves. Opening
of public lands to joint exploitation and the creation of an exploration fund
should facilitate expansion of known mining areas and induce the formation of
joint ventures between foreign and local investors, private or public, thereby
bringing in foreign capital, technology and administrative know-how.
7.        Bank Group assistance, based on the recommendations of the 1972
sector report, 1/ is focused on the provision of term credit for private
mining, but it also contains a substantial technical assistance component.
The first IDA Credit, No. 455-BO, provided term credit for medium miners
through Banco Industrial (BISA) and financed technical assistance, including
studies of mining taxation and the possibility of creating an exploration
fund. It also partially covered costs of the initial phase of the survey of
small mines, which is a prerequisite for a small mining development project
which is presently under preparation. The proposed project is designed, among
other things, to expand the scope of medium-size mining investment and to fur-
ther strengthen BISA, thus consolidating the gains made with the first IDA
credit. Also, a government proposal for Bank participation in an exploration
fund is expected shortly, but any Bank commitment would depend upon prior
consultations with the Executive Directors.
8.        Mining subloans of BISA to be financed under the proposed Bank loan
would be used primarily to increase the efficiency of the existing medium-
size minlng operations with resulting high economic benefits. In addition,
BISA as the largest private development finance institution, is expected to
play an active role in Implementing the Government's new mining policies and
particularly in promoting joint mining ventures. Also, it would be expected
to give special attention to subprojects producing metals other than tin and
to evaluate carefully the economic viability of tin subprojects (para. 30).
1/   The Mining and Metallurglcal Sector, Report No. P1-14, dated December 7,
1972.



- i~ii -
B. The Industrial Sector
General
9.         Industry contributes about 10% to GDP, as compared to 11% by mining,
but employs almost three times as many workers, about 8 % of the labor force
in 1974. This is because industrial activities are largely carried out in
small plants and workshops which are labor intensive. With the exception of
petroleum and metal refining, most industrial firms are privately owned. It
is expected that the present share of industry in GDP would increase, in
response to investment expenditures which have risen substantially since 1972
and which are likely to remain strong in coming years.
10.       The principal problem for industrialization is the small size of
the internal market which is further reduced by the high cost and difficul-
ties of internal transportation. This and the distances from world markets
and the lack of a Bolivian-owned port provide natural protection to local
industry and make it difficult to sell in the international market.
11.       Processing of Locally produced agricultural and mineral raw mate-
rials accounted for over three-fourths of industrial output and employment
in 1973. Imports satisfy about half of the domestic demand for industrial
goods. Imports of goods competitive with those produced by the processing
sectors accounted for 28% of total imports in 1973, suggesting that there is
still room for additional efficient import substitution in processing indus-
tries. Given Bolivia's natural resource base, it appears that industry has
been developing along the lines of comparative advantage.
12.       Reflecting the low level of financial development in Bolivia, a
severe shortage of term credit limits investment mostly to retained earnings
and other savings of a small group of entrepreneurs. As a result, investment
projects are often undertaken on too small a scale or not at all. Most credit
extended by the banking system is to finance working capital at short term,
but it is nevertheless inadequate for Bolivian industry, which, due to diffi-
cult transport, has to carry exceptionally large inventories. Firms could
grow faster if more term credit for investment and working capital were avail-
able. The current rapid development of the financial sector should thus
stimulate industrial development.
Policy
13.       Tariffs are low and provide fairly even amount of protection to
all sectors, thereby allowing relative profitability to be determined by
economic efficiency. In October 1975, in response to a decline in inter-
national reserves, the Government increased the number of items subject to
import quotas and prohibitions, but they still apply only to about 4% of the
items in the tariff schedule. Thus, Bolivian industry is still largely free
of the distortions created by widespread trade controls. The benefits to
Bolivia of belonging to the Andean Common Market may be offset by the very
highi Common External Tariff which might finally be negotiated.



- iv -
14.       The Investment Law encourages private investment in both new and
existing enterprises, principally in industry. While successful in promoting
investment, the Law grants benefits, mainly exemption from import duties,
that stimulate most those industries which use the highest proportion of im-
ported raw materials and capital goods and which are capital rather than
labor intensive.
15.       Income taxes in Bolivia are low but numerous national departmental
and municipal excise taxes are levied at each stage of processing. In effect,
highly processed goods are taxed more than less processed goods. This is
particularly damaging as Bolivia's comparative advantage lies principally in
processing industries.
16.       If Bolivia follows trade, investment, and taxation policies which
allow its comparative advantage to be realized, the processing industries
should continue to grow faster than industry as a whole. In addition to
maintaining low and uniform protection, authorities should search for new
means of promoting industrial investment which do not favor import-intensive
and capital-intensive industries. Measures are also needed to eliminate
excess taxation of highLy processed goods and to offset the burden of excise
taxes and import duties on exports, for example by a comprehensive rebate in
the form of a transferable credit note. These measures could contribute
significantly to the promotion of non-traditional exports. Sound, rapid
industrial growth will be facilitated by recent changes in interest rates
that should encourage financial intermediaries to attract savings and make
longer term loans for industrial investment (para. 19). The need for improve-
ments in both industrial and financial policies was discussed with the
Bolivian authorities during preparation of the project as part of the Bank's
ongoing dialogue with the Government on economic policy.
C. Financial System
17.       The financial system in Bolivia, which consists of the Central Bank,
commercial and specialized banks, and other financial institutions, is at an
early stage of development. Nevertheless, rising incomes, greater political
stability, and more consistent government policies have recently sparked accel-
erated financial development, resulting in the formation of some new banks and
financial companies. Financial development has been reinforced by the increase
in the share of total credit going to t.he private sector. This increase has
resulted from rising public revenues due to higher oil prices which have re-
duced the need for deficit financing. However, although commercial banks'
resources and their total volume of lending have increased, the average lend-
ing term has been actually shortened to less than one year following the full
commitment of concessionary funds derived from foreign assistance grants and
loans. The result is that short-term working capital credit is now easier to
get, but the scarcity of term financing for investment and permanent working
capital remains severe. BISA, the major domestic source of medium- and long-
term financing for industry and mining, has been unable to satisfy the fast-



v -
growing demand of private industries, while its mining lending, made possible
through IDA Credit No. 455-BO, has not reached more than a modest number of
medium-size projects.
18.       Real interest rates in Bolivia have generally been positive since
the 1959 stabilization program. Inflation, fluctuating in a range of 3 to
39% per annum since 1960, made real rates negative for about 18 months during
1973 and 1974, following the 68% devaluation in 1972. Since mid-1974, how-
ever, real rates have again turned positive as the November 1974-
November 1975 rate of inflation dropped to 7.5%.
19.       Interest rates on savings deposits in commercial banks were raised
from 9% to 10% in 1974, and the Central Bank started to guarantee the dollar
value of the savings deposits of individuals. In August 1975, the dollar
guarantee was extended to time deposits, whose interest rates were raised to
10-1/4% for 90-day deposits and to 11-3/4% for 360-day deposits. Commercial
banks pay up to 9% per annum on US dollar time deposits. Central Bank regula-
tions permit commercial banks to charge nominal interest of up to 15% per
annum on loans made from their own resources. Because of taxes, commissions,
and the prepayment of the interest normally required by banks, the effective
rate to the borrower may exceed 23% on short-term peso "productive" loans and
33% on personal and commercial loans. In comparison to commercial banks, the
cost of term loans made by development institutions such as BISA is much
lower. There are no taxes or employees benefit fee on development loans and
they are usually denominated in US dollars. Funds from international organiza-
tions may not be relent at more than 12% per annum in foreign currency and
after lending fees and commissions their cost to the borrower is about 13%
per annum. On January 8, 1976, the maximum lending rate on development banks
own resources was raised from 13% to 15% per annum to conform to the maximum
nominal rate of commercial banks.   Including a closing fee, the effective
cost of these loans may now reach 16% per annum. However, despite the equal-
ity in nominal lending rates as between commercial and development loans,
sizeable differences continue to exist in their comparative effective costs
due, on the one hand, to the foreign exchange risk inherent in dollar denom-
inated loans for development and, on the other hand, to the taxes, commissions
and requirements for prepayment of interest attaching to peso denominated com-
mercial loans.
20.       The need for an increase in the development banks' lending rate was
discussed with the Central Bank during project preparation and the January
increase may be an important breakthrough in the mobilization of domestlc
resources for investment purposes. For the first time in recent years, BISA
and other development finance institutions should be in a position to offer
an Interest rate on term funds in excess of the rate paid on commercial bank
time deposits and still have an adequate interest spread on relending the
borrowed funds.
21.       Development Prospects and Constraints.  Although notable advances
have been made, the Bolivian financial system still suffers from a number of
structural weaknesses. A foremost weakness is the lack of a reasonable term



- vi -
structure of interest rates. The arbitrary ceiling of 15% per annum on
lending rates, particularly in pesos, without regard to loan maturities,
discourages term lending and offers commercial banks no incentive to pay
higher interest rates to mobilize longer-term savings. A second weakness is
that much of the recent advancement in the financial system has relied on
US dollar guarantee of individuals' savings instruments. This would endanger
the effectiveness of monetary policy in the event of devaluation. Instead
an adequate interest rate differential between guaranteed and non-guaranteed
instruments should be established. Measures to correct these weaknesses will
be discussed as part of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the Government on
economic policies.
22.       Despite these weaknesses, the financial system should be able to
mobilize increasing amounts of resources and to make a modest beginning in
lengthening the average term of both assets and liabllities. The re-
establishment of positive real interest rates has set the stage for healthy
development of the financial system and made feasible the initiation of a
modest capital market which would aid in the efficient allocation of Invest-
ment funds throughout the economy.
23.       Project Implications.  Thus far, BISA has played a minor role in
the mobilization of domestic resources, largely because of the previous
ceiling of 13% per annum on lending from its own funds. The recent interest
rate adjustment, which allows development banks to charge 15% per annum on
their own resources, should enable BISA to initiate the issue of one- to
two-year dollar bonds at competitive interest rates. BISA's issue of bonds
would be facilitated by the prospective establishment of an over-the-counter
securities market. A successful issue of bonds by BISA would set a precedent
for other financlal institutions, thereby stimulating the development of the
capital market and facilitating investment in mining and industry.
PART II - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
24.       The proposed project, consisting of a Bank loan and an IFC invest-
ment, would represent the second Bank Group financing of BISA. The first
financing was included in the Mining Credit Project of IDA in 1974. Unlike
the IDA Credit, which was restricted to the mining sector, the proposed loan
would provide scarce long-term funds to both private mining and industrial
projects, including projects of small industrial enterprises.  The proposed
IFC investment, which was first discussed during the appraisal of the IDA
Credit in 1973, would consist of a subscription to BISA's share capital. The
project would contribute to the further development of BISA as the principal
term-lending institution to the private mining and industrial sectors in
Bolivia, and would incorporate some features designed to help develop the
Bolivian capital market.



- vii -
25.       BISA, established in 1963 as a private development bank, was set up
primarily to provide term financing to the private industrial sector. Since
its participation in the IDA Credit, it now also finances the private mining
sector. BISA is presently implementing a plan for geographic and functional
expansion that would transform it into a truly national development finance
institution. Other private development banks in Bolivia are much smaller
and relatively ineffective, while the record of Government-owned Institutions
has thus far been poor. Therefore, the growth and development of BISA has
important implications for the overall development of the private mining and
industrial sectors in Bolivia.
26.       Ownership and Board of Directors.  BISA's shareholders include the
most important groups in the Bolivian private sector. Shareholders are
grouped into four categories: private Bolivian banks (21% of share capital),
industrial firms and individuals (32%), foreign investors (32%), and medium
mining enterprises (15%). The biggest shareholder is ADELA Investment Company,
with about 23% of share capital. No other shareholder accounts for more than
7%. Each shareholder category has two directors, a system that gives BISA
an eight-member Board with a good balance of skills. BISA's Board, which in-
clude several prominent bankers and businessmen, is effective in setting
policy and takes an active interest in BISA's operations.
27.       Management and Staff.  BISA has competent and experienced management.
Its general manager is well qualified and has headed BISA since 1969. BISA
has built up an able staff of 19 professionals. It recently opened a branch
office in Santa Cruz to help develop the considerable agro-industrial poten-
tial of the western region, and a representative office in Tarija to cover the
southern provinces of Bolivia.
28.       Policies and Procedures.  The quality of BISA's appraisal work is
generally satisfactory. Technical evaluation and financial analysis are
acceptable. Economic analysis includes the economic rate of return (ERR) for
all subloans requiring more than US$50,000 equivalent, which account for close
to 90% of total approval amount. Supervision is acceptable. Procurement and
disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
29.       BISA recently drafted an integrated policy statement which serves as
a guide to BISA's operations. During negotiations, BISA agreed to modify its
policy statement so that it would (i) reduce the total amount of Its exposure,
as a percentage of its equity, in any single client from 35% to 25% by 1978 in
step with its growth in equity and (ii) institute more efficient operating
policies which should result in satisfactory profitability, increased dividend
yields and thereby facilitate the mobilization of the necessary equity resources
to assure BISA's sound financial growth.
30.       As a guide for subsequent project supervision by the Bank Group,
BISA's future operational strategy was discussed and agreed upon, in principle,
during negotiations. Points covered, inter alia, were BISA's geographic expan-
sion plans, capital market development efforts and overall operational targets,
including loans to small-scale enterprises. It is BISA's intention to give



- viii -
special attention to subprojects producing metals other than tin in support
of the Government's policy of diversification in the mining sector, and to
examine carefully those subprojects producing tin or goods whose importation
is prohibited. Bolivian industrial policies have important implications for
BISA. Because of the recent increases in import restrictions, BISA should
evaluate carefully the economic viability of subprojects producing goods whose
importation is prohibited. These implications were discussed during negotia-
tions and BISA has agreed to adopt reasonable parameters for the shadow
pricing of labor and foreign exchange.
31.       Past Operations and Results.  While still a relatively small insti-
tution with total assets of about US$11 million, BISA has already established
itself as a major source of scarce term financing for the private industrial
and mining sectors. Since 1963 BISA has approved a total of 862 loans for
about US$35,000 average. The processing industries in which Bolivia appears
to have comparative advantage, such as food products and textiles, account for
more than half of the total amount approved. Though recently started, mining
already represents 10% of total approvals. Firms in the La Paz area continue
to absorb the bulk of BISA's funds. This does not indicate a reversal of
BISA's efforts to diversify operations geographically, but rather results from
the financing of mining projects sponsored by firms with headquarters in La
Paz but with operations elsewhere. A considerable lengthening of average loan
term, and a much greater percentage of loans now financing fixed assets rather
than working capital, indicate the growing maturity of BISA as a term-lending
institution. Also, while BISA has not been very promotional in terms of
equity investments, it has been active in financing the creation of new enter-
prises, which accounted for 23% of total approval amount since inception.
32.       BISA also provides credit to small-scale enterprises having no more
than lUS$50,000 in equity and employing not more than 50 people. In 1975,
these loans, made in amounts not exceeding US$30,000 equivalent, accounted
for about half of the total number of loans approved and for about 8% of
total approval amount. Active participation of commercial banks as channels
for part of these loans has resulted in wide geographical distribution of
this type of credit. BISA expects that about 10% of its future lending,
including a part of the proposed loan, would be made to small enterprises.
During negotiations it was agreed that BISA would institute a system of
management controls for loans to small-scale enterprises which would assure
that appraisal standards would be more evenly applied and subproject imple-
mentation more closely supervised.
33.       Loan approvals increased five-fold from $b 40 million in 1973 to
about $b 216 million in 1975, while the total portfolio grew by about 60% in
1974 and 1975, reaching an estimated $b 230 million. BISA's earnings have
now recovered from the decline in the early 1970s, and it plans to resume a
minimum 5% yearly cash dividend (based on share capital) out of 1975 earnings.
As a result of a doubling of assets from $b 109 million in 1973 to about
$b 211 million in 1975, the debt/equity ratio rose from 3.5:1 at year-end 1973
to 4.9:1 at year-end 1975, although BISA retained all earnings during this
period. This is still within its contractual limit with IDA of 6:1. As an



- ix -
incentive for BISA's capital market development efforts, the Bank and IDA
would expand this ratio limitation under the proposed project to allow a
separate 1:1 ratio limited to bond resources mobilized in the domestic market
(Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement). This is justified by financial and
institutional improvements in BISA since the appraisal of the IDA Credit.
34.       BISA's loan portfolio is adequately secured with guarantees.
Arrears over three months represent about 7% of outstanding loans and recovery
prospects of these loans are relatively good. Total loss reserves are cur-
rently 1.2% of BISA's total portfolio. BISA has agreed that the current
reserve for portfolio losses is barely adequate and has agreed to increase
the provision annually, so as to reach 3% by 1980.
35.       Projected Operations.  BISA should have no difficulty in attaining
its target for approvals through 1980 at a conservatively projected growth
rate of about 12% per year. Due to large increases in approvals in 1974 and
1975, BISA's assets would triple by 1978 from the year-end 1975 base of $b 211
million. Profitability should also increase significantly to reach a 15%
return on average equity from 1978 onwards, which should make BISA's shares
more attractive.
36.       This projected growth rate would require additional foreign long-
term loans of at least IJS$10 million up to 1978, which the proposed loan is
to supply. BISA would also require additional resources for working-capital
loans, which it could obtain by mobilizing domestic resources through the
issuance of debt securities of at least one year term, in addition to Its
short-term foreign commercial bank credit lines. BISA has agreed (Section
2.09 of the Project Agreement) to undertake a study to determine the feasib-
ility of a program for the sale of such securities and to use its best efforts
to carry out a program which would have the equivalent of US$2 million worth
of securities outstanding by December 31, 1978. There has been little exper-
ience in Bolivia in selling medium-term debt securities, which may result in
some unforeseen difficulties in meeting the aforementioned target.
37.       Availability of sufficient additional share capital at this time
represents a major constraint on BISA's growth. In order to grow at the
projected rate and remain within the proposed debt/equity limitation, BISA
would need at least US$1.9 million in new paid-in capital by 1978. BISA has
informed us that they are in an advanced stage of negotiations with the
Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG), a German Government development
institution, as well as with existing major shareholders, for subscriptions
of share capital on a pari passu basis of 2:1 with the proposed IFC invest-
ment. BISA expects to meet the subscription target of US$1.9 million by
1978.
The Proposed Bank Loan
38.       General Description.  The proposed loan for US$10 million would be
utilized to finance the foreign exchange component of projects in the private
mining and industrial sectors. Based on BISA's tentative pipeline of projects,



x -
about 70% of the loan would be utilized for mining and the rest for industry.
However, a continuation of the presently depressed conditions of the mineral
market could slow down loan commitments for mining, although medium-term
market prospects are reasonably good. Industrial subloans would include lend-
Ing to small enterprLses, which are expected to utilize up to 10% of the pro-
posed loan. An analysis of BISA's tentative project pipeline indicates that
the Bank loan would help finance investment projects whose total cost would
be about US$19 million.
39.       As requested, the proposed loan would be made to the Government of
Bolivia, at the current Bank interest rate and standard commitment fee on the
undisbursed balance. It would be relent to BISA on the same terms and condi-
tions, but denominated in US dollars. The Government would take the exchange
risk between the dollar and the currencies disbursed by the Bank for a fee of
1/4% to be passed on to subborrowers (Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement).
The loan is expected to be committed by December 31, 1978 and fully disbursed
by December 31, 1980. Following standard DFC practice, amortization of the
loan would conform to the amortization schedules of individual subloans.
40.       Subloan Terms and Conditions.  Subloans would be for up to 15 years,
including a reasonable grace period not to exceed three years. The maximum
amount of individual subproject financing would be governed by BISA's exposure
limit, which is defined in BISA's policy statement (paragraph 29). Subloans
would be denominated in US dollars. BISA would relend Bank funds at the high-
est legal interest rate on foreign official funds (now 12% per annum). It
would also charge its borrowers a commitment fee on the undisbursed balance
(now 1% per annum), a closing fee (2-3% one-time charge), and the Government's
fee of 1/4% for the exchange risk between the dollar and the currencies dis-
bursed by the Bank. Subloans to small enterprises channeled through the com-
mercial banks would also include a 3% per annum guarantee fee charged by the
banks.
41.       Approval Limits.  The limits for subloans not requiring prior Bank
approval would be raised from US$250,000 under the IDA Credit to US$600,000
for mining subloans and would be IJS$300,000 for industrial subloans, in recog-
nition of improvements in BISA's appraisal capability. In addition, the first
two industrial subprojects requiring Bank financing of over US$30,000 (the
limit for small enterprise subloans) would be subject to Bank approval (Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement). The foregoing limits would result in
Bank review of a representative sample (at least 40% of the Bank loan amount),
since mining subloans are expected to average US$500,000 and industrial sub-
loans US$200,000. A sample of small enterprise subloans would also be reviewed
on a post-approval basis.
42.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement would be in accordance
with standard DFC practice, which normally calls for quotations from several
suppliers. In the case of small enterprise subloans this would not be re-
quired, but BISA would assure itself that goods and services procured are
reasonably priced. Disbursements would be made directly to BISA with notif-
ication to the Central Bank. Disbursements would cover the full foreign



- xi -
exchange cost of direct imports, 35% of construction costs, and 60% of im-
ported machinery and equipment purchased locally, both representing their
estimated foreign exchange component (see Section 2.02 (a) of the Loan
Agreement). Foreign equipment suppliers are fairly well represented in
Bolivia.
The Proposed IFC Investment
43.       The proposed IFC investment would be for up to $b 11 million
(US$550,000 equivalent) for 100,000 of BISA's common shares of par value
$b 100 each at the price of $b 110 per share. It would be paid in from 1976
to 1978 and would be matched pari passu by payments from other sources of at
least double the amount (paragraph 37).  This would be reflected in the share
subscription agreement. The proposed investment would make IFC an important
shareholder in BISA, with about 15% of share capital in 1978. IFC's first
payment under the subscription agreement is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Bank loan (Section 6.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement).
Economic Benefits and Justification
44.       Based on an analysis of BISA's list of projects under consideration,
it is expected that the economic rate of return (ERR) of the mining subprojects
to be financed under the proposed loan, like those being financed by the IDA
Credit, would exceed 40%. The high ERR is not surprising since most of BISA's
mining subloans are for the improvement and expansion of existing mines. ERRs
of new operations would be much lower. Projections indicate that the mining
subprojects are likely to make contributions to Bolivia's net foreign exchange
earnings of about US$115 million (net of import requirements) and to govern-
ment revenues of nearly US$50 million, cumulative from inception up to 1985.
Production increases are expected to account for about 20% of the output of
medium mines and for some 5% of the cumulative mining output of Bolivia over
the same period. Due to the need for relatively capital-intensive production
methods, direct employment created would be relatively minor, about 650 jobs.
Some improvement could be expected in health and safety conditions as a
consequence of expansion and modernization of the mines, and in the standard
of living of mine workers as a result of associated investment in on-site
housing and infrastructure facilities.
45.       Due to the variety of industrial subprojects, it Is not possible
ex ante to estimate the ERR for this part of the loan. BISA assures itself,
however, of the economic viability of the subprojects it finances, and does
not normally finance projects with an ERR of less than 12%. A review of the
evaluations of 10 recently approved industrial subprojects showed an average
economic rate of return of 22%, which is satisfactory. The industrial sector
review undertaken in connection with the appraisal of this project also con-
cluded that Bolivian industry on the whole is only moderately protected, and
appears to have been developing along the lines of comparative advantage
(para. 11). In addition, it shows that potential still exists for efficient
import substitution projects, such as those BISA normally finances. The em-
ployment potential of industrial subprojects is difficult to quantify, but
is expected to exceed that of mining. This should be particularly true of



- xii -
the small enterprise subprojects. A sample of 12 such firms (which pre-
viously received BISA financing) showed a favorable ratio of US$3,500 assets/
job on the average, an indication of their considerable employment potential.
The part of the loan for small enterprises and artisans should be regarded as
a pilot operation which would help provide the Bank with information and
experience to lay the basis for a posslble larger involvement at a later date,
and in this way complement the Bank's efforts to help the urban population at
a lower income level.
46.       Scarcity of term credit has continued to be a major deterrent to the
growth of the mining and processing industries, in which Bolivia has a compara-
tive advantage. Several years of political stability and increased export
earnings have improved prospects for private investments, and have further
intensified credit needs. The proposed project, consisting of a Bank loan and
an IFC investment, would contribute both directly and indirectly to help fill
this major gap in financing. It would provide term financing for prlvate
mining and industrial projects, including projects of small industrial enter-
prises, while at the same time contributing to the further development of BISA
as the principal lending institution of the Bolivian private sector. The
project would also contribute to the development of the Bolivian capital
market by supporting BISA's efforts to mobilize domestic resources through
bond issues and additional share capital. Although the amount to be raised is
relatively minor, initial success in this activity could break the ground for
much larger issues in the future, which could help meet the considerable
working capital needs of Bolivian industry.
47.       IFC's potential impact on BISA and on the development of the
Bolivian private sector would be particularly significant at this point in
time. As stated in paragraph 37 above, availability of share capital repre-
sents the principal bottleneck to BISA's growth. The proposed investment
and the parallel investments it would induce would allow BISA to increase
its assets by up to US$10 million to help meet the great demand for term
funds by private industrial and mining enterprises.
48.       The proposed investment could constitute the basis for a mutually
beneficial long-term relationship. BISA could be utilized as an important
investment "window" in Bolivia, which could provide the Corporation with more
opportunities to participate directly in the development of the Bolivian
private sector. The investment is estimated to have a discounted rate of
return exceeding 10% in current dollars, which is acceptable. The Bolivian
Government views the proposed IFC investment favorably.
49.       There are no unusual risks involved in the project.  Whlle not
probable, It is however possible that delays in obtaining local subscriptions
to BISA's share capital could result in some delays in the disbursement of
both the loan and investment. Also, since it would be the flrst time that
BISA would try to issue bonds in the domestic market, some unforeseen setbacks
could occur. A continuation of the presently depressed conditions of the
mineral market could also result in a slowdown of loan commitments. How-
ever, medium-term market prospects are reasonably good.



I. THE MIINING SECTOR
A.   The Bank Group's Participation in the Sector
1.01      The Bank Group has been active in Bolivia's mining sector since
the early 1970s. The Mining and Metallurgical Sector Report No. PI-14, of
1972, made specific recommendations regarding the Government's development
policies and institutions for the sector and stated investment priorities.
Subsequently, IDA Credit No. 455-BO has made possible the expansion and
modernization of medium-sized mines and has contributed to strengthening
Banco Industrial (BISA), a private development bank, as the intermediary for
the mining credit (para. 5.02). The credit also provided financing for the
Survey of Small Mines, for a study on the reform of Bolivian mining taxation,
for a feasibility study of a mining exploration fund and for setting up a
documentation center within the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy. Together
with the preceding sector report, the IDA Credit was instrumental in initia-
ting reforms in crucial mining policy and administrative areas such as ex-
ploration, foreign investment, taxation, and credit.
1.02      A follow-up mining sector mission visited Bolivia in early 1976.
Its report is now under preparation and will focus especially on major sector
policy issues, including taxation, investment, commercialization and the
mining development proram included in the Government's forthcoming 1976-80
Development Plan.
1.03      The present project will, among other things, expand the scope of
medium mining investment and will further assist BISA in becoming a financial-
ly stronger and technically competent development bank, thus consolidating
the gains made with the first IDA Credit. In preparation is a small mining
development project aiming at the transformation of small mines with economic
mineral reserves into viable operations, and also at strengthening BAMIN, the
selected credit intermediary. For that purpose, the loan would contain tech-
nical assistance to both BAMIN and the subborrowing miners.
1.04      Also, on the basis of a study by the US Geological Survey, financed
under IDA Credit No. 455-BO, the Government is to submit a proposal for the
Bank's participation in the financing of a mining exploration fund, which is
to be set up in Bolivia. In view of the importance of exploration for the
sector's development, the Bank's participation in a soundly conceived explora-
tion fund would be very important. However, in view of policy implications,
consultations with the Executive Directors would be necessa-y before any Bank
commitment could be made.
B.   Contribution to the Economy
1.05      Mining in Bolivia, since colonial times, has been an important
economic activity, second only to agriculture. Its share in GDP during



- 2 -
1968-75 averaged 13%. 1/  The sector's contribution to exports and fiscal
revenues is even more important. Almost the entire mining output is ex-
ported and mining has been the principal source of the country's foreign
exchange, accounting for nearly two thirds of merchandise exports in 1968-75.
Over the same period, the sector also provided 15% of central government
revenues. Due to largely capital-intensive production methods, the number
of persons employed in mining is rather low, about 60,000-75,000, equivalent
to about 3% of the employed labor force. However, due to sharp swings in pro-
duced volumes and attainable prices, the sectoral contribution to output,
employment, exports, and fiscal revenues has fluctuated significantly in
individual years.
1.06      Bolivia produces a wide range of minerals which vary greatly in
importance. Tin is still the most important and Bolivia is the second
largest producer of this mineral after Malaysia. Tin output has stagnated
since the late 1960s, and its share in mining output fell to below 60% by
1974. Most other minerals performed better. The relative importance of
Bolivian minerals is shown in the following table:
Minerals Produced in Bolivia, 1965-1974
Share in Bolivian Production /1        Share in World Production /2
1965-74    1965-69    1970-74          1965-74   1965-69   1970-74
----------(Percent)----                ---------(Percent)---------
Tin              62.1        68.0        58.6           12.9       13.4       12.6
Zinc              7.1         3.5         9.3            0.6        0.4        0.8
Antimony          7.0         5.0         8.2           21.4       19.8       23.3
Tungsten          5.9         5.2         6.4             *          *          *
Copper            5.0         5.0         5.1            0.1        0.1        0.1
Lead              3.7         4.2         3.4            0.7        0.7        0.6
Silver            5.7         5.9         5.7            1.9        1.8        1.9
Bismuth           2.3         1.3         2.8             *          *          *
Gold              0.3         0.7           -            0.04 /3   0.07         *
Cadmium           0.2           -         0.2            0.2        0.01       0.4
Other             0.7         1.2         0.3             *          *          *
/1   Value.
/2   Volume.
/3   1965-72.
*Not available.
Source: Government of Bolivia, Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy.
"Metallstatistik 1964-74" Metallgesellschaft.
1/   Based on Current Economic Position of Bolivia, Report No. 786-BO, Tables
2.1 and 2.2.



-3-
1.07      The bulk of Bolivia's mining output is still exported in the form
of concentrates with a metal content ranging from less than 25% to 60%.
Except for on2 third of tin and antimony production, minerals are not refined
in Bolivia,  Thuis, refining fees and transport costs are incurred abroad,
which reduce net earnings from mineral exports by about 20%.  The import re-
quirements of miniiig are also substantial.  Virtually all machinery and equip-
-rnent has to be imported, elevating the import content cf fixed mining invest-
ment to about C0%.  The import content of operational costs exceeds 30%.
C.   Sectoral Structure
1.08      Mining enterprises in Bolivia basically fall into three categories
whose contribution to sectoral exports, employment and fiscal revenue is
shown below;
Subsector Shares in Mining Exports, Employment and Taxes, 1965-75
(Percent)
Mining       Mining       Mining
Exports    Employment    Taxes
Large Mining (COMIBOL)               58            40          58
Medium Mining                        22            10          28
Small Mining                         20            50          15
1.09      The dominant entity is the State-owned Bolivian Mining Corporation
(COMIBOL), which owns and manages 14 large nationalized mines and accounts
for over one half of mining exports and taxes, and over one third of mining
employment.  COMIBOL is beset by particularly serious problems.  Inflexibility
in decision-making, resulting from over-centralization and extremely diffi-
cult labor relaticns, has led to inefficient use of labor, with only about
40% of the labor force employed underground. Excessive social welfare expen-
ditures have been undertaken on behalf of the Central Government, while essen-
tial operations and main4enance expenditures have not been carried out. In
general, COMIBOL lacks a'*ommercial approach to mining operations.  Only very
recently has there been some investment in beneficiation, resulting in in-
creased recovery ratios and higher concentration of minerals, despite a de-
clining metal cortent of ores. Nevertheless, COMIBOL's operational costs
continue to exceed those of medium mines, especially for tin. The resolution
of COMIBOLs problems depends on the Government's willingness to make diffi-
cult political decisions and its ability to carry them out.
1.10      The medium mining sector consists of 29 private firms. 1/  In order
to be regarded as a medium-size mining enterprise, a company has to have a
minimum share capital of US$100,000; a minimum monthly production of 5.5 fine
tons of tin or wolfram, 20 tons of antimony or zinc, and 15 tons of copper or
lead; adequate technical and managerial organization; and be a member f the
National Association of Medium Miners. 2/ There is no upper ceiling for private
1/   As of February 28, 1976.
2/   Supreme Decree No. 5674 of December 30, 1960.



-4-
mining companies. Medium miners are the most efficient segment of the mining
sector and are responsible for 70% of the Bolivian production of antimony
and 50% of tungsten. As a group, they have been very dynamic, their mineral
producticn growing at an average real rate of 7.1% between 1960 and 1970.
In comparison with the two other subsectors, medium miners operate the most
modern mines and consequently provide the best working and living conditions
for their workers. However, the largest companies seem to have reached an
optimum technical and managerial limit. Their further growth in scale would
likely require a substantial change in technology and administration, which
would have to come from abroad. As a result of this and also due to past
political instability, mining companies have concentrated on increasing
the efficiency of their existing operations and obtaining high returns on
marginal investments.  Also, they are increasingly turning towards employing
experienced expatriates or are seeking joint ventures with foreign firms.
Among medium miners there are a few larger firms whose operations approach
or exceed individual COMIBOL mines. They have for some time been investing
part of their profits outside the mining sector, gradually becoming diver-
sified corporations with holdings in agricultural, industrial and banking
enterprises. On the other hand, the number of medium miners has been and
will be increasing, with the gradual development of small mining properties.
1.11      The small mining sector consists of 2,000-3,000 actual operations 1/
whose number varies with international market conditions. Generally, they
are primitive operations, varying in size from family mining to medium-size
enterprises. While some hundreds of these enterprises have the potential to
become economically viable once a significant injection of capital and tech-
nical assistance is provided, most small mines are too small or have too poor
ore reserves to justify additional investment; gradualVy, they are likely to
disappear or be merged into larger operations.
1.12      Finally, there is an undefined number of cooperatives, mainly work-
ing under marginal technical, economic and social conditions, which neverthe-
less give some form of employment to about 16,000 people; their production is
mainly sold to COMIBOL.
D.   Financing of Mining
1.13      Credit for private mining is inadequate.  During 1972-74 only about
6% of the total credit went to mining and over one half of this was used for
holding mineral stocks. In view of scarce term credit and in the absence of
a capital market, even the largest of the medium mining companies have great
difficulties in raising domestic funds for long-term investment, and roll-
over of short-term loans from commercial banks has been a general practice.
1/   The inventory of small mines, financed under IDA Credit No. 455-BO,
counts 5,240 mining properties, many not in operation.
I



-5-
Small mines, which have no access to suppliers' credit and a limited cash
flow, can carry out very little investment. Short-term financing is avail-
able to larger firms from commercial banks or through advances received from
foreign buyers against term sale contracts of minerals. Since banking legis-
lation prevents commercial banks from accepting titles of mines as loan
collateral, smaller miners have to depend almost exclusively on occasional
loans and advances against future deliveries of minerals from Banco Minero
(BAMIIN), a public mining credit and mineral trading institution.
1.14      Until 1974 most of the limited amount of domestic credit for
private mining came from BAMIN, although Corporacion Boliviana de Fomento
(CBF), a public development company, had also financed some medium mining
projects from funds provided under an IDB loan. In 1974 BISA began making
term loans for projects of medium miners under IDA Credit No. 455-BO. Addi-
tional funds for BISA's medium mining loans would be available under the
presentt project. Also, a Bank loan to develop small mining enterprises is
under consideration.
E.   Development Constraints and Requirements
1.15      After relatively fast expansion during the mid-1960s, mining produc-
tion in Bolivia has been growing at less than 2% per year and the sector's
contribution to GDP growth during 1968-74 amounted to just 5%. At present,
mining is passing through a critical phase sparked off by deteriorating market
conditions for major minerals. Following the price boom in late 1973-74,
prices of basic metals in 1975 declined by 13% from their previous peak, and
demand for tin, antimony, and copper was particularly weak. In an unsuccess-
ful attempt to support prices, the International Tin Council established ex-
port quotas which reduced exportable volumes to about 75% of their 1974 level.
As a result, mining value-added contracted in 1975 by 5%, net exports of
minerals fell by 23% from their 1974 peak to an estimated value of US$233
million, and government revenues from mining were reduced by 20% to just over
$b 2 billion. On the other hand, operating costs continued to rise and this
has led to the closure of a number of small mines.
1.16      More important than the temporary veakness of the mineral market
was the poor performance of the mining sector -ver the last decade, reflect-
ing deep-seated structural problems. Suffering from a general shortage of
term credit, investment hasrbeen insufficient for the development of the
existing mines and for the exploration of mining areas. In addition, uncer-
tainty growing from the nationalization of some large mines in 1972 has de-
terred private investment in new mines, and has encouraged the outflow of
mining profits to other economic sectors. This has led to the virtual ex-
haustion of known mineral deposits, and contributed to a deterioration of
working conditions in many mines. The antiquated system of mining taxat'in
based on the production value, the exclusion of the private sector from large
mineralized areas held by the Government as fiscal reserves, and the unreal-
istically low prices set on mining rights ("patentes") have also contributed
to the deteriorating mining situation.



- 6 -
1.17      The Government has recognized the need for thorough policy reforms
in order to make private mining in Bolivia more viable. A reform of mining
taxation is presently being considered. 1/ It proposes a changeover to a
business profit tax, at least for larger firms with adequate accounting
practices. The proposed tax would largely remove the obstacles to output
and investment growth inherent in the present system and put tax treatment
of mining on a more equal footing with the rest of the economy.  The Govern-
ment is also considering establishing a mineral exploration fund 2/ with
foreign financial assistance, to provide capital for exploration activities;
opening up fiscal reserves to private exploration, domestic as well as
foreign, in partnership with State entities; extending fiscal investment
incentives to mineral beneficiation with the intention to attract foreign
investment; intensifying training programs for mining workers; and increas-
ing public investment in smelting, refining, and in supporting infrastructure.
Also, the desirability and methods of diversifying mining production away
from tin are being studied.
1.18      Prospects for Bolivia's mining sector basically depend on future
development of international metal markets, about which Bolivia can do little,
and on increased production efficiency of operations, to which sound mining
policy can contribute significantly. The Government's proposed policies
would go a long way to removing the major obstacles to the development of
the mining sector and increasing its contribution to public revenues, foreign
exchange earnings, and economic growth. The implementation of these policies
would require strengthening of government institutions, and improvement of
the management and administration of both public and private enterprises.
The proposed project and the small mining development project which is in
preparation are directed toward these objectives. The problem of the pre-
dominant role of tin in Bolivian mining and possible diversification measures
of the Government should be included in the economic policy dialogue with the
Government. Also, Banco Industrial--the credit intermediary under the pro-
posed Bank loan--would give special attention to subprojects producing minerals
other than tin and would evaluate carefully the economic viability of tin
producing subprojects.
1/   Based on a study by the Harvard Institute for International Development,
financed under IDA Credit No. 455-BO.
2/   Based on a feaslbility study by the US Geological Survey, also financed
under the IDA Credit. Bank participation in the financing of an explora-
tion fund would be considered in consultation with the Executive Directors.



-7-
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.   Contribution to the Economy
2.01      Industry makes a modest contribution to GDP in Bolivia, fluctuating
around 10.3% during 1968-74, 1/ but political stability and rising incomes
should allow industry to increase its share in the next several years. In
1974, 205,000 people, 8.4% of the labor force, worked in industrial activities,
mostly in small plants and workshops. With the exception of the government-
owned petroleum refining and basic metal industries, 91% of industrial output
and employment are generated by privately owned enterprises. After years of
relatively slow growth, industrial investment has increased substantially in
the last few years; registrations of investment projects with the National
Investment Institute (para. 2.13) increased by 48% in 1974 and more than
doubled, to over US$110 million, in 1975.
2.02      Most Bolivian industry is based on the processing of locally pro-
duced agricultural and Tmineral raw materials. As seen in Table 2-1, the
processing industries 2/ accounted for more than three fourths of industrial
output and employment in 1973. As Bolivia is a rather sparsely populated
country, containing considerable natural resources, it appears that its
industry, by specializing in processing, has probably developed along the
lines of its comparative advantage.
2.03      Imports satisfy about half of the domestic demand for industrial
goods but the import share varies greatly among sectors. Imports represent
28% of the domestic demand for the types of goods produced by the processing
sectors, but 72% of demand for those of the non-processing sectors (Table
2-2). Nevertheless, the substantial imports of goods competitive with those
of the processing sectors suggest that there.js still room for additional
import substitution that would be efficient and in line with comparative
advantage.    g
2.04      Industrial exports in 1974 accounted for 21% of industrial output
but this is heavily influenced by three pro',icts: refined tin, refined sugar,
and sawn wood. Excluding these products, oiulv 2.9% of industrial output was
exported. Virtually all industrial exports ca,.e from the processing sectors.
1/   Based on Current Economic Position of Bolivia, Report No. 786a-BO.
2/   Food, beverages, textiles and apparel, wood products, non-metallic
minerals, petroleum refining and basic metals.



BOLIVIA
BAIICO IlTUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PRDJECT
Table 2-1 Industrial Output and Employment, 1973
Industry                                          Output                                 Fmployment
(Mllions of US$)                     .(Thousands of US$) -
Fcod-products                                 70.19              27.3                 7.42               21.6
Beverage$*e                                   23.45               9.1  f              2.70                 7.8
Tobacco                                        8.36               3.2                  .24                0.7
Textiles*                                     21.97               8.5                 5.59               16.2
Footwear*                                    14.83                5.8                 3.35                9 7
Wood *                                        16.31               6.3                 3.13                9.0
Furniture*                                    1.69                0.7                  .90                2.6
Paper                                         3.63                1.4                  ,41                1.2
Printing                                       5.84               2.3                 1.36                3.9
Leather*                                       2.81               1.1                  .63                1.8
Rubber                                        8.95                3.5                  .L49               2.1
Chemicals                                    11.15                4.3                 1.66                4.3
Petroleun derivatives*                         5.47               2.1                  .21                 ) 6
Non-metallic mine rals*                       9.47                3.7                 2.28                6.6
Basic metal*                                  36.97              14.4                  .92                2.7
Metal products                                 7.23               2.8                 1.14                3.3
Machinery                                       .61               0.2                  .02                0.1
Electrical Machinery                          2.46                1.0                  .54                1.6
Transport Equipment                            1.53               0.6                  .69                2.0
Others                                      _4.32                 1.7                  .84                2.4
Total Processing                  203.14              79.0                27.13                78.6
Total Non-processing               54.10              21.0                 7.39               21.4
GRAND TOTAL                       257.24              100.0              3_4.52               100.0
Source:  JUNAC/CONEPLAN - based on data of Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas
and the Registro Industrial del Ninisterio de Industria, Comercio y Turismo.
* Processing industries.
LCPDF
May, 1976



BOLIVIA
BANCO INfDUSTRIAL MINING AND IrD7J SRIAL CRFJDIT PROJ'=T
Table 2-2 Industrial Imccrts, Exrcrts and Dc."rstic Demand, 1973
(in US$'000)
Domestic            Imports^'
Industry                             Output          Imports             Ecports           Demand    D;xoe tic >-ari
Food products                       70,190            19,748             13,099             76,839                25.7
Beverages-                          23,449               54L                  33            23,900                 2.3
Tobacco                               8,357            1,108                -                9,465                11.7
Textiles-                            21,975            6,106                -               28,081                21.7
Footwears                           14,830             2,372                -               17,202                13.8
Wood*                                16,311              522               5,645            11,188                 14.7
Furniture-                            1,687              4114               -                2,101                19.7
Paper                                 3,631            4,347                _                7,978                54.5
Printing                             5,840             2,575                -                8,415                30.6
Leather,,'                            2,812              115                 349             2,578                 l.5
Rubber                               8,955             4,965                 767            13,153                37.8
Chemicals                           11,1147           28,370                  92            39,425                72.0
Petroleum Cerivatives:-               5,474            2,113                   5             7,582                27.9
Non-metallic minerals'-              9,1470            2,212                -               11,682                18.9
Basic metal-                         36,974           15,887              36,193            16,668                95.3
Metal products                        7,235           12,616                _               19,851                63.6
Machinery                               613           30,950                -               31,563                98.1
Electrical machinery                  2,465           13,794                -               16,259                84.8
Transport equipment                   1,532           33,127                _               34,659                95.6
Others                               4,325             5,230                -                9,555                54.7
Total Processing           203,172           50,033              55,324           197,881                28.0
Total Non-processing        54 1oo          137,082                 858           190 3214               72.0
GRAND TOTAL                257,272187,11                         56,182           388,205                48.2
Source:  JUNAC/CONEPLAN - based on data of Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas ind the
Registro Industrial del Ministerio de Industria, Comercio y Turismo.
* Processing industries.
LCPDF
May, 1976



- 10 -
B.   Industrial Finance
2.05      Industrial firms finance investments largely from internal sources.
Equity, while much more important than debt in firm financing, cannot be
mobilized easily. Reinvestment of profits provides most of the increase in
equity. Issuing shares is uncommon. There is no organized stock market on
which to sell shares, and most firms are very closely held and their owners
probably wish to avoid the disclosure of flnancial information that a public
issue would require.
2.06      Term funds for Investment in industry are scarce.  A 1973 survey
by the Central Bank of large industrial enterprlses with the best access to
credit revealed that the debt/equity ratios of the sectors in the sample
ranged from 0.3:1 to 1.4:1; the term debt/equity ratlos were much lower,
ranging from 0.1:1 to 0.5:1. Bolivian industry is working capital intensive
by international standards, and has large needs for medium-term financing of
working capital which are not fully satisfied by the banking system. These
needs result from transportation problems, both within Bolivia and between
Bolivia and abroad, requiring industrial firms to maintaln exceptionally
large stocks of raw materials, intermediate products, spare parts and finished
goods.
2.07      Under the clrcumstances In which private industries are closely
held and have little access to term credlt, private investment is virtually
limited to resources generated by the existing enterprises. To speed up
industrial development, other resources must become.more readily available.
Current development of the financial system (para. 3.02) indicates that
better credit facilities and other domestic sources of funds can gradually
become available.                              5
C.   Industrial Policies and Public Institutlons
1.   Protection
2.08      Tariffs In Bolivia are set by the Finance Ministry, more to raise
revenue than to protect industry. Although on the average they are fairly
low--about 9% of the value of imports in 1974--they raise 38% of public
revenues. The structure of protection among industries is only moderately
escalated. 1/ Although there is some effort to place higher tariffs on
final goods than on intermediate inputs into flnal products, many final goods
also have low tarlffs. On the whole, tariffs provide a fairly even amount
1/   Escalation of a tariff schedule means that the higher the degree of
processlng of a product, the higher the tariff rate. Escalatlon tends
to ralse effective rates of protection above nominal rates but in the
absence of an effectlve protection study in Bolivia it is not possible
to say by how much.



- 11 -
of protection to all sectors, thereby allowing relative profitability to be
determined by economic efficiency.
2.09      Licenses and prohibitions, also administered by the Finance Ministry,
are imposed on only about 4% of the almost 5,000 tariff classifications in
Bolivia. In October 1975, in reaction to a decline In international reserves
and speculation against the peso, the Government imposed import restrictions
on 31 products, and the number has grown somewhat since then. Also, the
Central Bank imposed deposits of 25% of import value to reduce the money
supply and, marginally, to discourage imports.  Nevertheless, even after the
recent measures, Bolivian industry is still relatively free of the distortions
created by widespread trade controls.
2.10      Contraband imports, officially estimated at about 10% of total
imports, reduce the protection which industries receive from the tariff and
quantitative controls. Most industries accept contraband as part of their
normal competition. It is impossible to judge to what extent contraband
results in a simple evasion of duties, and to what extent it reduces protec-
tion to establish industries by having the beneficial, if unintended, effect
of subjecting them to greater competition and requiring higher efficiency.
It should also be pointed out that contraband exports to adjacent areas of
neighboring countries provide an important market for many firms.
2.11      The emerging Andean Group could have a major impact on Bolivia's
industrial development over the medium term.  Next year, the members are
to begin bringing their tariffs in line with a still-to-be negotiated Common
External Tariff (CXT). Because Bolivia is a "less developed" member of the
Group, it will have a longer period to bring its tariffs into line and will
be able to exclude more products from intragroup free trade than other
members. Bolivia will have exclusive rights to produce certain metal-
mechanical and petrochemical products. Since these are products in which
Bolivian industry has no clear comparative advantage, careful study of the
economic costs and benefits of setting up these industries should be made
to avoid costly and inefficient production.
2.12      The greatest potentially favorable impact on Bolivia would be the
eliminatLon of barriers to competition from member countries. However, since
Bolivia's tariffs are already fairly low, and because of contraband, this
effect is likely to be less important than in some other countries. The
real test of the Andean Group will occur in the 1980s, when Bolivia has to
begin changing its tariffs to equal the CXT. The impact would depend on
the level of the CXT. A high CXT (say 50%) would have unfortunate effects
on Bolivian industrial development. Firstly, the terms of trade would deter-
iorate because Bolivia would probably export products such as oil, g-z, and
metals, priced at or near world market prices, while Andean Group manufactured
goods, produced behind protective walls, will displace lower cost, thir-



- 12 -
country sources. Secondly, the CXT may be strongly protectionist 1/ and this
may have a negative effect on the efficiency of the Bolivian industries whose
products substitute imports. Finally, the higher costs that will work their
way throughout the industrial sector in response to the higher levels of
protection will make exports of processed goods more difflcult. It is diffi-
cult to estimate in advance whether the benefits from intragroup competition
will offset the costs of higher protection and the deterioration in Bolivia's
terms of trade.
2.   Investment Incentives
2.13      The Government has made clear its policy of using prlvate sector
activity to stimulate economic development. To thls end, an investment law
administered by the National Investment Institute (INI) encourages both new
investment and reinvestment by the private sector. The law principally
benefits industry (including tourism), but agriculture, construction and
natural resources are also Included. Through 1975, most investment benefiting
under the law was in the processing industries and tourism; over half was in
agroindustries alone. Service and assembly industries have recently been
encompassed in the regulations of the law.
2.14      To be eligible for the benefits to new industrial investments, the
Investment Institute must certify that the machinery and equipment is "tech-
nologically modern." This requirement has often led to unfruitfut discus-
sions between INI engineers and project sponsors. Since most modern machlnery
has been designed for use in countries where the relative price of labor to
capital is far hlgher than in Bolivia, it may not be the best choice for the
firm and the economy. The Institute should, therefore, after bringing alter-
natives to the investor's attention, rely on him to choose the most appro-
priate machinery (para. 2.21).
2.15      The principal advantages offered under the investment law are
exemptions from tariffs on capital and intermediate goods, rebates of tariffs
paid on intermediate goods used for producing exports, and exemption from
sales and Income tax. The difficulty in a tariff exemption and rebate incen-
tive is that it stimulates most those industries which use the highest propor-
tion of Imported raw materials and capital goods, and favors industries that
are fixed capital intensive over those that are working capital or labor
intensive. Therefore, means of stimulating Investment which do not discrimi-
nate in favor of fixed-capital and import-intensive industries should be
examined (para. 2.21).
1/   There is some effort to mitigate the distortions arising from the
Andean Common External Tariff by setting nominal rates in such a way
as to give equal protection to value added, but it is doubtful that
this effort will be successful.



- 13 -
3.   Taxation
2.16      Income taxes in Bolivia are low compared to some other Latin
American countries, the maximum tax rate being 30% of income. Income taxes
made up only 14% of total public revenues in 1974. Firms that reinvested
100% of profits in 1975 paid income tax at the ratej of only 9%. Since most
firms are closely held, have little need to pay div4dends, and have little
access to credit for investment, their owners were quite willing to reinvest.
The reinvestment allowance was probably overly generous; the Finance Ministry
has estimated that the reinvestment tax credits reduced income tax collection
in 1975 by about 15% of what it otherwise would have been. Consequently,
the allowance was suspended on January 17, 1976, but reinvestment of 50% of
profit remained obligatory. It is expected that the investment allowance
will be reinstated later in 1976, but at a lower level than before.
2.17      Numerous national departmental and municipal excise taxes, together
with customs duties, make up the bulk of public revenues. The 5% national
sales tax is supposedly levied on the value added at each stage of proces-
sing, but administrative procedures for determining value added have not
been developed, so that in practice the full 5% is levied at every stage.
In effect, goods that pass through several stages of processing are taxed
more in relation to their final value than are less processed goods. This is
particularly damaging as Bolivia's comparative advantage lies in processing
industries. If value added taxation is not administratively feasible, only
final use of goods, and not intermediate transfers, should be taxed (para.
2.21).
4.   Export Promotion
2.18      The Govermnent has recently become aware of the importance of
stimulating non-traditional exports.  Only in 1975 was a 15% tax on non-
traditional exports removed.  The Central Bank has established a small line
of credit for financing non-traditional exports at preferential interest
rates and maintains an office, FOMEX, to promote non-traditional exports.
The Investment Law provides that duties on inputs into non-traditional
exports may be rebated in the form of a credit note, and that the exports be
exempt from national, departmental and municipal level excise taxes. Neither
of these provisions is in operation. Rather than attempt the administratively
difficult task of exempting exports from excise taxes and duties, the Govern-
ment could provide a comprehensive rebate in the form of a transferable credit
note redeemable for tax payment. In order to allow advance provision to be
made in budgeting the receipt of these notes, they could mature one year after
issue. The rebate rate could be set so that the present value of the rebate
is equal to the excise taxes and duties 1/ (para. 2.21).
1/   Mexico, which relies less heavily on indirect taxes than Bolivia, found
that exports bear about 5% excise tax, on the average. If, for example,
exports bear 10% excise tax in Bolivia and the expected discount on the
certificates is around 15% p.a. (c.f. 11-3/4% p.a. on time deposits),
the rebate rate would need to be about 12% of the value of exports (10%/
(1.0-0.15) = 11.8%).



- 14 -
D.   Problems and Outlook for the Industrial Sector
2.19      The principal problem for Bolivian industriallzation is the small
size of the market, due to both a small population, 5.3 mlllion, and Its
low per capita income of US$255 (1974). The effective market size is further
reduced by the high cost and difficulties of internal transportation which
fragment the national market. Internal transportatlon problems are com-
pounded by the dlstances from world markets and the lack of a Bolivian-owned
port. These factors, while providing a degree of natural protection to
local industry, make it dlfficult to sell in the international market.
2.20      A second important problem facing Bolivian Industrialization is the
scarcity of term credit. Because of thls, industrial projects are often
undertaken on too small a scale, or not at all. The alternative of rolling
over short-term loans, if available, is risky and not conducive to ratlonal
investment decislons.
2.21      These problems have several important impllcatlons for industrial
development strategy and for the present project. In the context of the
ongoing dialogue wlth the Government on economic policies, the Bank should
suggest several Improvements in industrial policy. First, improvements in
the export promotion system are needed to make exporting more profltable by
offsetting the negatlve effects of Import duties and exclse taxes on exports
(para. 2.18). Second, changes to implement value-added taxation or to insure
that only the final use of goods is taxed should be made to remove the
present tax dlsadvantage of more highly processed goods (para. 2.17). Thlrd,
modlflcations of the industrlal promotion policy are also needed to avoid
favoring capltal-intensive and import-intensive industrles (para. 2.15).
Fourth, as a subsidiary point, flrms recelving beneflts under the investment
law should be allowed to choose the machlnery most approprlate for their
projects (para. 2.14).
2.22      In the context of the present project, and In vlew of the recent
increase In the use of quantitative controls on imports, BISA would look
more carefully at the economic viablllty of subprojects, particularly those
producing goods whose importation is prohlbited. Furthermore, It would also
adopt reasonable parameters for the shadow price of labor and of foreign
exchange.



- 15 -
III. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A.   Recent Developments
3.01      The financial system of Bolivia is at an early stage of development.
As can be seen from the accompanying Table 3-1, few countries show lower
Indices of financial development. Nevertheless, rising income, greater poli-
tical stability, and more consistent government policies have sparked an
acceleration in financial development in recent years, and increased the re-
sources available to the banking system. In addition, the increase in public
revenues, mostly from recent hikes in oil prices, and the corresponding reduc-
tion in the need for deficit financing have raised the share of total credit
going to the private sector and strengthened the resources and lending poten-
tial of the banking system. The 1973-74 inflation, which followed the 68%
devaluation of the Bolivian peso at the end of 1972, temporarily set back
the development of the financial system, but by mid-1975 financial indicators
had recovered to their pre-devaluation levels.
3.02      The faster pace of financial development not only strengthened the
capital base of existing banks but also created favorable conditions for the
establishment of new institutions and set the stage for the initiation of
capital market activities. These developments should increase the level and
the efficiency of investment throughout the economy, particularly in the pri-
vate mining and industrial sectors.
B.   Financial Institutions
3.03      Commercial banks.  The commercial banks may be classified by owner-
ship as public, domestic private, and foreign. The system is dominated by
Banco del Estado, a public institution which was formed by splitting off the
commercial banking activities of the Central Bank. Banco del Estado is respon-
sible for about one quarter of the value of loans extended to the private
sector and about 9.5% of the total financial assets of Bolivia. Ten domestic
private banks and six foreign banks held 8.6% and 9.6% of financial system
assets, respectively.
3.04      In addition to checking accounts, commercial banks accept savings
deposits and time deposits up to one year, denominated either in pesos with
or without a dollar guarantee (para. 3.15), or in US dollars. Although not
limited by law, commercial banks lend almost exclusively at a very short
term; one year is a maximum except when they channel lines of credit from
abroad or from the Central Bank, in which case they lend for 2-5 yearq and
occasionally even longer. As the lines of the Central Bank credit have been
committed, the average term of loans to industry has declined to less t an
one year.
3.05      From 1964-66 to 1972-74 the share of total banking system credit
going to the public sector declined from 65% to 37%. Private sector agri-
culture and industry have benefited most from these changes, industry's



- 16-
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDU3]RIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 3-1  Indicators of Financial Development (1973)
Country                                            Indicator
l/               1
Quasi Money/     Quasi Money g                Demand Deposits/
GDP             Money                          Money
Japan                     0.88              2.44                          0.77
Germany                   0.57              3.99                          o.6h
United States             .55              2.52                          0.78
Taiwan                    0.37              1.75                          o.64
Korea                     0.30              2.o6                          0.64
Panama                    0.28              1.97                           I.00
Mexico                    0.26              2.35                          0.56
Venezuela                 0.17              1.09                          0.74
Argentina                 0.13              0.61                          0.61
Ecuador                   0.0t              0.60                           o.65
Bolivia                   0.06              0.32                          0-34
Haiti  (1972)             0.05              0.41                          0.19
Cameroon  (1970)          0.03              0.21                          0.47
Dahomey  (1970)           0.02              0.10                          0.47
Source: Calculated from IFS.
/ Definition of quasi money:  Country - line no. from IFS
Japan - 35, 45, 46a; Germany - 35, 36a; United States 35, 45
Taiwan - 35, 45X- Korea - 35, 45g, 46a; Panama - 35;  Mexico 35, 45, 46a;
Venezuela - 35, 45, 46a;  Argentina - 35, 45;  Ecuador-35,3o ;Bolivia - 35, 45, 46a;
Haiti - 35;  Cameroon - 35, 45;  Dahomey - 35, 45.
2/ Demand deposits only.  Money supply cannot be determined because of the circulation
of US currency.
LCPDF __



- 17 -
share of credit increasing from 11.6% to 18.7% and agriculture's from 5.7%
to 19.9% during the period. Although the public sector borrowings increased
in 1975, it is not expected to again pre-empt a disproportionate share of
credit, as occurred in the mlddle 1960s.
3.06      The Central Bank attempts to direct credit to "productive" uses,
including agriculture, mining and industry. Seventy percent of commercial
bank loans must go for these purposes. Since most bank credit is short-term,
these loans are used mainly to finance working capital. Besides direct control
of bank portfolios, a penal tax of 7% p.a. is imposed on "unproductive" com-
mercial and personal loans, while only a 1% p.a. tax is levied on "productive"
loans. Formally, the policy seems to have been effective, as indicated by
the above-average amounts of credit flowing to agriculture, mining, and
industry in relation to their contribution to GDP (Table 3-2), but there is
no way of knowing how many loans made to "productive" borrowers have in fact
been used for personal or commercial purposes.
3.07      Specialized banks.  Five specialized banks, which lend to specific
activities and which do not accept deposits, operate in Bolivia; two are
public, two are private and one is of mixed public-private ownership. The
two public development banks, Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB) and Banco Minero
de Bolivia (BAMIN), which traditionally have been channels for subsidized
credit from the Government to the agricultural and small mining sectors, are,
with the Bank Group's assistance, undergoing administrative changes, designed
to strengthen their financial conditions and capacity for project appraisal.
The mixed ownership bank, Banco de la Vivienda, which has only recently begun
operations, is to be the repository and administrator of housing funds derived
from social security contributions.
3.08      The two private specialized banks are:  (a) Banco Industrial S.A.
(BISA), the beneficiary of the proposed Bank loan and IFC investment; and
(b) Banco Hipotecario Nacional (BHN), a mortgage bank which lends for resi-
dential mortgages. 1/ IFC is presently pursuing the possibility of an equity
investment in BHN to support its mortgage lending and resource mobilization
efforts.
3.09      Other institutions.  Insurance companies play only a minor role in
the financial system. Until recently they have sought to invest their policy
reserves abroad but they now increasingly invest them in BHN dollar bonds or
in dollar accounts in Bolivian banks. The savings and loan system has grown
rapidly to over 24,000 savers and US$16.2 million in assets. 2/ It makes mort-
gage loans exclusively to depositors. Because of its specialized nature,
the role of savings and loan associations in the overall financial system is
bound to be limited. In 1975 two new small finance companies were founded.
One deals mainly in medium-term Eurodollar loans, although it may soon begin
equipment leasing operations, an important service to small and medium a lers.
The other finance company is capitalized by, and makes working capital loans
1/   BHN also has a separate commercial bank section.
2/   About half of this amount was financed by USAID.



- 18 -
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 3-2 Comparison of Banking System Finance with
Sectoral Origin of GDP: 1973
Banking System
Sector                    GDP                 Finance                Finance/GDP
(% of Total)             (% of Total)            ($b / $b)
Public                   24.7 2                    4b.1                 0.455
Private                  75.3                      53a9                 0.172
Commerce               11.5                     6.7                  0.140
Industry               12.5                    16.3                  0.313
Mining                  4*9./                   5*32/                0.259
Construction            6.4                     3.0                  0.112
Agriculture &                                       /
Livestock             14.7                    19.6                  0.320
Others                    25.3                     6.0                  0.057
Total (Millions of
$b)        21,459.0                 5,147.1                  0.240
j Includes Central Government, 60% of mining, energy and petroleum extraction
and refining.
j 40% of mining sector.
3/ Includes mining andI mineral stocks financing.
y Includes agricultural/livestock and export credit.
ICPDF
May, 1976



- 19 -
to, small miners in the Oruro area. Both the financieras and the insurance
companies may be expected to participate actively in the capital market when
it is established.
3.10      Capital market.  Except for the dollar bonds of BHN there is no
fixed-interest instrument market in Bolivia. Union de Bancos Bolivianos, an
association of domestic Bolivian banks, plans to initiate over-the-counter
operations beginning with short-term negotiable time deposits, mortgage cer-
tificates, bonds and, in time, commercial paper. The banks are interested
in establishing this market to give greater liquidity to their time deposits,
thereby making them more attractive. The market would be very important for
BISA, BHN or any other financial institutions which intend to mobilize local
resources for relending to industrial and mining enterprises for investment
and working capital needs. At the Union's request, the IFC Capital Markets
Department has discussed with the Union various alternatives for establishing
an over-the-counter market in fixed-interest securities.
C.   Monetary Policy
3.11      Bolivia has a very open economy; its price level Is heavily in-
fluenced by foreign prices and its monetary supply by changes in its foreign
exchange reserves. Its monetary policy must, therefore, be designed to hold
domestic inflation approximately equal to external inflation. This has indeed
been the case since 1967, with the exception of the 18 months following the
68% devaluation in 1972. The need to conduct restrictive monetary policy in
the face of persistent balance of payments problems and public sector defi-
cits has constrained credit available to the mining and industrial sector.
3.12      Changes in reserve requirements are the principal instrument of
monetary policy. Although their effectiveness is limited by the high public
preference for currency (about 65% of the total money supply), at their
present level of 45% of demand deposits they act as an effective deterrent
to the expansion of bank credit. Reserve requirements on time and savings
deposits, which now amount to 10% for local and 15% for foreign banks, are
used by the Central Bank to channel resources for relending to the Govern-
ment or to special activities. Indirectly, however, they affect the overall
cost of funds available to commercial banks. Their previously higher level
discouraged banks from paying interest rates high enough to attract private
savings. The rediscount rate at which banks borrow from the Central Bank is
not used as a tool of monetary policy, nor does the Central Bank conduct open
market operations.
3.13      In October 1975, 25% prior import deposits were introduced as an
additional instrument of monetary and exchange policy. Applying to otily
about 15% of the value of all imports, the deposits are not likely to save
much foreign exchange. They increase somewhat the working capital neeob of
private enterprises and tighten the liquidity of the banks. However, their
overall effect is considered to be more of a nuisance; they are soon expected
to be reduced and restricted to only a few imports, virtually eliminating
their effect on firms' liquidity.



- 20 -
D.   Interest Rates
3.14      Nominal interest rates in Bolivia are rigidly controlled by the
Central Bank. Because of taxes, commissions, and other charges, there exists
a substantial difference between the nominal and the effective lending rate.
3.15      Deposit rates.  Interest is not paid on demand deposits.  In order
to help mobilize local savings and induce repatriation of Bolivian capital
from abroad, interest rates on savings and time deposits were raised from 9%
to 10% p.a. in 1974 and, more importantly, the Central Bank guaranteed the
US dollar value of savings deposits to individuals. In August 1975 this
guarantee was extended to individual time deposits and the interest rates
were raised further to 10-3/4% p.a. on 90-day deposits, 11-1/4% p.a. on 180-
day deposits, and 11-3/4% p.a. on deposits held more than 360 days. Insti-
tutional savers receive the same interest for peso deposits but without the
dollar clause. Dollar deposits yield up to 9% p.a.
3.16      The response to these measures has been very favorable.  Between
August and October 1975 total time deposits in La Paz banks rose by 63%, and
peso time deposits, with dollar clause, increased from 2% to 29% of total
deposits. This seems to confirm that, given the level of interest rates,
linking deposits to foreign exchange is a necessary monetary measure in an
economy such as Bolivia's, which is highly vulnerable to capital flight. 1/
3.17      Lending rates.  According to the latest Central Bank regulation of
January 8, 1976, the maximum nominal lending rate is 15% p.a. However, this
nominal rate does not represent the borrower's cost. Credit from commercial
banks, denominated almost exclusively in pesos, is subject to a fee of 3%
p.a. for an employee's benefit fund, and to taxes of 1% on productive loans
and 7% p.a. on other loans, increasing the borrower's cost to 19% p.a. for
the former, and to 25% p.a. for the latter. Inasmuch as commercial banks
normally require prepayment of the interest and other charges, the borrower's
effective cost may exceed 23% for "productive" loans and 33% for other loans,
as shown in Table 3-3.
3.18      In comparison to the lending rates by commercial banks, medium-
and long-term loans made by development institutions such as BISA are much
lower. There are no taxes or employees' benefit on development loans, which
are usually denominated in US dollars. Funds derived from official foreign
borrowings may be on-lent at the maximum rate of 12% p.a., to which closing,
commitment, and guarantee fees may be added, raising the borrower's cost to
above 13% p.a. Prior to January 8, 1976, the interest rate of 13% p.a. was
the maximum the development banks could charge on lending their own resources.
Since then, the Central Bank raised the interest ceiling to 15% p.a., to
conform to the nominal lending rate of commercial banks. Including a closing
1/   "The World Bank and Financial Development," White Cover draft dated
February 5, 1975, prepared by the Financial Development Unit.



a X Y a t O a    e       ~~~a1 
.                            a. I .                                                                               0nvs noog
i~ ~                  ..      8. X8 | 
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 0                                                         0QI                   0 o  4
-00                                                                                                             0  0 w   b bu  @ >1
0.                           0.0.   00   00   00   00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 
*j 0                           2 8.8                             2 28 o     8              84  8  0 000         * 0D00
W. - a 0a '0 00 00 00 OE t a
'~ g        o~ of  'o    o o   o o   og o ''         !     
g0 o o o c o oo  o~  o   o0  o  oZ 8               >.S 
'  ' ~   ~      ~       0      00   002  0o       00 20 0   00            .'0     0   f
H   o   9   tw  W M   W 9   w 9                      -1 t           0j|
|t  =  =   X  '  n >                     " "  " V   V rt~~~'0~t 
4         .   HS              p o0 0  L     0. 40 4 - - -
'-
_4               -4 O-4-rAw MS s > w                                          c
.   P   s   _   s  .  o   _ _   __   _>   _ _4-4  '4  'l ,l      
uJ 00  0  000'       t0'4''_-_t         -4_    ' O_0_-450
0     W                        S 0  'f  0   00 0 5 - 0  0     0    0           ** 8. 8
-- Ir-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H



- 22 -
fee, the borrower s cost may reach 16% p.a., which is still much below the
effective interest rate of commercial banks. The remaining difference be-
tween the effective cost of commercial bank credit and the rates of develop-
ment loans is explained in part by the foreign exchange risk inherent in
dollar loans and in part by taxes and reserve requirements applied to
commercial bank operations.
3.19      The need for an increase in the development banks' lending rate
was discussed with the Central Bank during project preparation. This in-
crease may be an important breakthrough in the mobilization of domestic
resources for investment purposes. For the first time in recent years, BISA
and other development finance institutions are in a position to offer an
interest rate for term funds in excess of the rate paid on commercial bank
time deposits and still have an adequate interest spread on relending the
borrowed funds.
E.   Financial Constraints and Prospects
3.20      Real interest rates in Bolivia have generally been positive since
the 1959 stabilization program. Following the 1972 devaluation, rapid infla-
tion (58.4% p.a. from the third quarter of 1972 to the second quarter of 1974)
made real rates highly negative for about 18 months, but since mid-1974 real
rates have again turned positive as the November 1974 - November 1975 rate of
inflation dropped to 7.5%. 1/ Positive real interest rates set the stage for
a further development of the financial system, as domestic savers have an
incentive not only to retain their funds in Bolivia but also to repatriate
funds previously sent abroad. Relatively high rates on US dollar-guaranteed
deposits have also become attractive to savers residing in countries offering
less favorable financial conditions. It is, therefore, probable that the
financial system in Bolivia will grow considerably faster than the economy
as a whole in coming years.
3.21      Despite the notable advances that have been made, the Bolivian
financial system still suffers from a number of structural weaknesses. A
foremost problem is the lack of a reasonable term structure of interest rates,
both on loans and deposits. Although time and savings deposits rates in
pesos show a reasonable progression from 10% p.a. for sight deposits to
11-3/4% p.a. for one-year deposits, there is no similar progression for
longer-term funds. Moreover, short-term commercial bank loans bear a higher
effective rate than long-term development bank loans, which limits the amount
of term lending that the system can carry out. In view of the long-standing
distortions in the term structure and the psychological resistance to a
drastic interest rate adjustment, changes in regulations to allow a gradual
rise in the peso term lending rate would be the proper solution.
1/   Based on the consumer price index in La Paz.



- 23 -
3.22      A second weakness is that much of the recent advancement in the
financial system has relied on US dollar-denominated and dollar-guaranteed
savings instruments. In view of the devaluation in 1972, dollar linkage
has probably been necessary to attract savings, but also represents a poten-
tial danger to the effectiveness of monetary policy. In the event of a
devaluation, the Central Bank would be forced to create money which would
be inflationary and would partially offset the effect on relative prices
that the devaluation was designed to achieve. Therefore, dollar linkage of
personal savings and time deposits should be gradually replaced by an adequate
differential between peso and dollar deposits or, in the interim, loans made
with these funds could be denominated in dollars (para. 3.23). The author-
ities are aware of the need to establish interest differentials; they have
not yet, however, taken the decision. They believe, not unreasonably, that,
because of currently exaggerated fears of devaluation, the differential
presently required would be excessive. Consequently, they prefer to wait
until more normal psychological conditions are re-established.
3.23      As the financial system grows in relation to the economy, it can
aid in channeling a growing proportion of savings into productive Invest-
ments in the mining and industrial sectors. Recent changes in interest
rates charged by development institutions should make possible greater
resource mobilization and a gradual lengthening in the average term of
banking system loans, thereby allowing firms to make more rational invest-
ment decisions. As part of the ongoing dialogue with the Government on
economic policies, the Bank Group should discuss further improvements in
financial policies Including: (a) increases in interest rates charged on
term lending in pesos, and (b) the establishment of adequate interest rate
differentials between peso- and dollar-denominated deposits.
F.   Project Implications
3.24      At present, BISA is a major domestic source of medium- and long-
term finance for industry and mining. Because of the previous 13% p.a.
interest rate ceiling on development loans, BISA played a minor role in
the mobilization of domestic resources. UJnder its present interest ceiling
of 15% p.a. BISA should be able to issue dollar bonds of at least one-year
term, at a rate somewhat above the 9% paid on dollar term deposits. Straight
peso bonds would have to await relaxation of the interest rate ceiling on peso
loans. While a small first issue could be placed directly, BISA should make
an all-out effort to work with the Unlon of Bolivian Banks in order that this
issue would find a secondary market and that following issues could be placed
through the market. IFC's advice in designing and placing such issues would
be helpful to the country's efforts to develop a capital market.



- 24 -
IV. BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
A.   Organization, Policies and Procedures
1.   Establlshment and Objectives
4.01      BISA was established In 1963 as a private development bank, with
the support of the Bolivian National Chamber of Industries (CAMARA) and
USAID. It was set up primarily to provide term financing to the private
Industrial sector.  In connection with BISA's participation in IDA's First
Mining Credit of 1974, this objective was broadened to include the financ-
ing of the private mining sector. Under the proposed project, BISA's range
of objectives would be further broadened to include efforts to help develop
the Bolivian capital market.
2.   Ownership and Board of Directors
4.02      BISA's shareholders are grouped into four categories, as shown
below: 1/
No. of Shares at
Shareholders                 $b 100 par value         %
Class A    Private Bolivian Banks                    65,961             21.1
Class B    Industrial Firms and Individuals         100,030             32.0
Class C    Foreign Investors                        100,643             32.2
Class D    Medium Mining Enterprises                 46,380             14.8
313,014           100.0
The biggest shareholder by far is ADELA Investment Company (ADELA), with
about 23% of share capital. The rest of share capital is widely held, with
no other shareholder accounting for more than 7% (Table 4-1). To prevent
any single shareholder from exerting excessive influence on operations,
voting rights per shareholder are limited to a maximum of 10% of BISA's
total outstanding shares.
4.03      BISA's shareholders tend to function in terms of affiliations,
with the CAMARA and its members, the Union of Bolivian Banks (IJNION), and
the Association of Medium Miners (ANN) comprising the important groups in
addition to ADELA. The medium mining enterprises have become shareholders
only since 1973, when BISA decided to start financing mining projects. Aside
from broadening BISA's shareholder base, this move also resulted in the addi-
tion of two new members, representing the dynamic medium mining sector, to
BISA's still somewhat conservative Board of Directors.
1/   As of December 31, 1975.



Table 4-1
- 25 -
B O L I V I A
BANCO NDUmSTRIAL EING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
List of Ikior Shareholders as of Deoember 31, 1975
Number of
Shares             % of
$b1OO par value         Total
I.    Class "A" - Private Bolivian Banks
1. Banco Boliviano Americano                   12,957             4.1
2. Banco de Cochabamba                          1,008              0.3
3. Banco de Credito Oruro                       2,105              0.7
4. Banco de Financiamiento Industrial             560              0.2
5. Banco Hipotecario Nacional                  19,236              6.1
6. Banco Industrial y Ganadero del Beni         1,066              0.3
7. Banco Mercantil                             11,251              3.6
8. Banco Nacional de Bolivia                   16,223              5.2
9. Banco Potosi                                 1,305              0.4
10. Banco de Santa Cruz de la Sierra               250             0.1
Sub-total           65,961            21.1
II. Class rrB" - Industrial Firms and Individuals
1.  Castellanos, Hugo Ortiz                     6,864              o.6
2. Cerveceria Boliviana Nacional, S.A.         19,458              6.2
3. Droguer{a Inti, S.A.                         1,108             0.4
4. Fabrica de Tejidos acquard                   1,621              0.5
5. Gasser y Cia. Ind. La Belgica, S.A.          1,912              0.6
6. Hansa Ltda.                                  3,333              1.1
7. Industrias Bolivianas Unidas, S.A.           4,615             1.5
8. Industrias Venado, S.A.                      1,298             0.4
9. La Papelera, S.A.                            2,187             0.7
10. Manufacturas de Algod6nS.A.                 18,642              6.o
11. Mamafacturas Bolivianas, S.A.                1,068              0.3
12. Manufacturas Textiles Forno                  2,353              0.8
13. Sears Archibald, F.J.                        1,199             0.4
14. Sociedad Nacional Textil, S.A.               2,618              0.8
15.  Sociedad Boliviana de Cemento               3,183             1.0
16. Textiles Asociados                           1,330             0.4
17. Vascal, S.A.                                 1,103             0.4
18. Vo3mn, B.A.                                  1,349             0.4
205 Bolivian shareholders with less
than 1,000 shares each                     29,989             9.6
Sub-total          100,030            32.0
III. Class "C" - Foreign Investors
1. Adela Investment ComPanY                    71,928            23.0
2. Banco Popular del Peru                      20,514             6.6
3. Banco de la Nacion Argentina                 5,818             1.8
4. Bank of America                              2.383             0.8
Sub-total          100,643            32.2
IV.  Class  "D" - M4edijm-Mining Enterrises
1. Avicaya Ltda.                                2,611             0.8
2. Comsur S. A.                                 2,467            0.8
3  Cocspania Explotadora de Minas                 360            0.1
4. CompanLia Estanifera Berenguela              2,654             0.8
5. Empresa Minera Atoroma                       3,998             1.3
6. Bapresa Minera Barrosquira                     280            0.1
7. Empresa Minera Pabon                         5468             0.5
8   z presa Ninera San Juan                       956            0.3
9. anpresa 1Sinera Unificada                    8,656            2.8
10. Estalsa Boliviana Ltda.                      7,910            2.5
11. Fabulosa Mines Consolidated                  6,293            2.0
12. Grupo Minero Cerro Grande Ltda.              2,378            0.8
13. Hormet S. A.                                   197            0.1
14. International Mining Company                 5,075            1.6
15. Ursic, Orlandini y Cia                         912            0.3
16. Emptresa Minera Santa Isabel                   163            0.1
Sub-total           46,380           114.8
TOTAL              313,014          100.0
MCP7
May 1976



- 26 -
4.04      Each class of shareholders is represented by two directors, a system
that gives BISA an eight-member Board with a good balance of skills. BISA's
Board includes several prominent bankers and businessmen (Table 4-2). The
present chairman, Mr. Jaime Quiroga, who represents the medium miners, is
a well-respected industrialist. The Board is effective in setting policy,
takes an active interest in BISA's operations, and has approval authority for
all projects requiring more than IJS$70,000 equivalent of BISA funds. Approval
authority for loans between US$30,000 and US$70,000 equivalent is delegated to
a Loan Committee composed of the chairman of the Board, one of the directors
(on a rotating basis), the general manager, and the operations manager. Loans
for less than US$30,000 require the approval of only the general manager, or
of the branch manager in the case of loans originating from the Sta. Cruz
area. As a result of these limits, only about 30% of the number of loans, but
representing more than 80% of the total amount of loans approved, pass through
the Board. While this is satisfactory, with the expected growth in operations
and increase in the average subloan size the Board may have to consider in-
creasing the loan approval authority delegated to the Loan Committee and to
management.
3.   Management and Staff
4.05      BISA has competent and experienced management.  Its general manager,
Mr. Jorge Lopez Pacheco, is well qualified and has headed BISA since 1969.
He is presently assisted by an experienced administrative manager and a
deputy manager for operations (Table 4-3). The operations manager left re-
cently to serve as Under-Secretary of Planning and Coordination under the
Government's obligatory service program. His successor has already been
selected from several qualified candidates and the position is expected to
be filled in the near future.
4.06      In view of its goal to become a truly national private development
institution, BISA has been pursuing geographic and functional expansion and
has built up a competent staff of 19 professionals. 1/ It has recently opened
a branch office in Sta. Cruz, now fully operational, which would cover the
eastern provinces of Bolivia and help develop the area's considerable agro-
industrial potential. The branch office has been given considerable autonomy
and is expected to pass the break-even point in 1976. A representative office
has also been opened in Tarija to cover Bolivia's southern provinces. This
geographic and functional expansion has increased BISA's administrative costs
temporarily to a rather high 4.1% of average total assets for 1975 compared
to 3.2% in 1973, since loans generated by both the mining projects division
and the Sta. Cruz branch have not yet led to a substantial increase in dis-
bursements. BISA now appears to be well staffed to cope with its projected
increase in operations up to the end of 1977. Thus, a reduction in the
1/   Excluding the vacant operations manager position and the part-time
representative in Tarija.



- 27 -
Table 4-2
B O L I V I A
BANCO INDUSrRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Board Members as of March 31, 1976
Jaime Quiroga Matos                         General Manager, Empresa Minera Unificada
(Chairman)                            "EMUSA"; represents shareholders Class D.
Jaime Said Denmarla                         Chairman of Manufacturas de Algodon "SAID"
(First Vice-Chairman)                 '3.A. and Algodonera Boliviana S.A.;
represents shareholders Class B.
Juan Enrique Riveros                        Vice-President, ADEIA Investment Company
(Second Vice-Chairman)                S.A.; represents shareholders Class C.
Miguel Fabbri Cohn                          General Manager, Banco Populair del Peru;
represents shareholders Class C.
Jose Luis Johnson                           President, Cerveceria Boliviana Nacional;
represents shareholders Class B.
Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada                   President, Compafiia Minera del Sur I)COMSUR",,
represents shareholders Class D.
Luis Viscarra Cruz                          General Manager, Banco Hipotecario Nacional;
represents shareholders Class A.
Dieter Witting                              Executive Vice-President, Banco Boliviano
Americano; represents shareholders
Class A.
LCPDF
May, 1976



B O L I V I A
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Organization Chart
Shareholders Assembly
Board of Directors
Loan Committee          
GeneraManager  nae
|   Manage, of Operat'.T            ]                                                                                                                                   Administratve Manager
Deputy Manager of Operations                                aSta Crug  ranch                        r        ive-
Financial and                                                                          Accounting,
Industrial                            Mining             l              Economic                            Supervision                                         International and                         Legal
Credit                                Credit             l              Analysus                                                                                General Serv ces
World Bank-15877                     1-
LCPDF
May 1976



- 29 -
administrative cost ratio can be expected, which should be an important
factor in increasing profitability in the near future. BISA continues to
devote considerable efforts to staff training, which should also help to
increase staff productivity over the next few years.
4.   Appraisal and Supervision
4.07      The quality of BISA's appraisal work is generally satisfactory.
While the first few mining subprojects under the IDA Credit suffered from
BISA's lack of experience in this sector, recent ones have shown significant
improvements, particularly in their analysis of technical aspects. Financial
analysis Is generally acceptable and economic analysis now includes the
economic rate of return (ERR) for all subloans requiring over US$50,000
equivalent. However, while uniform methodology has been adopted for ERR
calculations, some improvements are still necessary and have been discussed
with BISA's staff.
4.08      BISA still has rather conservative guarantee requirements, normally
requiring up to two times loan coverage with real estate, and three times
coverage with machinery and equipment. 1/ Given the improvements in subproj-
ect appraisal, it should be able to rely increasingly on the strength of its
evaluations and take a more flexible attitude regarding co'llateral. An under-
standing has been reached with BISA during negotiations regarding more flexi-
ble implementation of collateral requirements. An effective screening device
has been added to BISA's project processing cycle, in the form of summaries
which have to be submitted to management before detailed appraisal proceeds
on a particular project. Obtaining management clearance at an early stage
of the cycle helps ensure that staff effort is expended only on projects with
a good chance of being approved.
4.09      The improvement in its appraisal work is important also because
BISA has been active in presenting several joint financing opportunities to
IFC in the recent past, one of which has led to an investment in PLASMAR, a
cable and plastic products company. In case IFC should wish to use BISA
Increasingly as an investment "window," BISA's field appraisals could help
supplement IFC's own project appraisal work.
4.10      Supervision work has improved since the appraisal of the IDA Credit,
with work now being based on six-month programs. However, while client firms
normally provide adequate information on BISA-financed subprojects, their
reports on other company operations are normally limited to audited annual
financial statements for firms borrowing at least US$100,000, and annual
pro-forma statements for firms receiving subloans below this amount. BISA's
management has agreed to require their clients to submit semi-annually pro-
forma financial statements, which would be satisfactory.
1/   The coverage based on equipment resale value would, of course, be lower.
Claims of employees (social benefits, etc.) also take priority over
BISA's loans In the event of liquidation.



- 30 -
5.   Procurement and Disbursement
4.11      Procurement procedures are generally adequate.  BISA normally re-
quires its clients to submit quotations from at least three suppliers. How-
ever, its initial involvement with mining subprojects usually took place at
a relatively late stage in subproject preparation, when major procurement
decisions had already been made. BISA would now evaluate subprojects at a
much earlier stage in order to be able to influence to a greater extent both
subproject design and procurement decisions. Procedures for disbursements
are, on the whole, adequate.
B.   Policy Statement and Strategy Paper
4.12      In preparation for the project, BISA recently adopted an integrated
policy statement which serves as a guide to its operations (Annex 1). During
negotiations, BISA agreed to two important amendments to its policy statement.
First, its present exposure limitation of up to 35% of the amount of its
equtity in any enterprise or group of related enterprises would be reduced, in
line with expected growth in equity, to 25% by about 1978. Second, It would
institute more efficient operating policies in order to achieve satlsfactory
profitability and dividend yield to facilitate the mobilization of necessary
equity resources in the future.
4.13      As a guide for subsequent project supervision by the Bank Group,
BISA's draft strategy paper was discussed and agreed upon, in principle,
during negotiations (Annex 2). 1/ It covers, inter alia, BISA's geographic
expansion plans, capital market development efforts and overall operational
targets, including loans to small-scale enterprises. It includes BISA's inten-
tion to give special attention to subprojects producing metals other than tin
in support of the Government's policy of diversification in the mining sector,
ant to examine carefully those subprojects producing tin (para. 1.18) or goods
whose importation is prohibited (para. 2.22).
C.   Operations
1.   Lending Operations
4.14      Since inceptlon up to mid-September 1975, BISA approved a total of
862 loans for about US$30 mlllion (Table 4-4). 2/  Approvals Increased five-
fold from US$2.0 mllllon in 1973 to about IJS$11 rillion In 1975, due partly
to the recovery of the Bollvlan economy from the political turmoil and uncer-
tainty of the early seventies, and partly to the success of BISA's expanslon
plans. Total approvals up to mid-September 1975 are distributed over several
industries, with the processing Industries in which Bolivia appears to have
comparatIve advantage, such as food products (21% of total amount --proved)
1/   Agreements reached during negotiations have not been reflected in the
draft.
2/   Tables 4-4 to 4-17 are attached at the end of this Chapter.



- 31 -
and textiles (15%), accounting for most of the industrial approvals. This
is roughly in line with the structure of manufacturing in Bolivia. Though
recently started, mining already accounts for 10% of total approvals, and
for about a quarter of approvals in 1975. Tourism projects still play a
relatively minor role, with 5% of total approvals. The La Paz area zontinues
to absorb the bulk of BISA's funds, accounting for 73% of its 1975 approvals.
This does not necessarily Indicate a reversal of BISA's efforts to diversify
operations geographically. Rather, it partly results from the financing of
mining projects sponsored by firms with headquarters in La Paz. If mining
projects are netted out, it appears that La Paz only accounts for close to
half of 1975 industrial approvals compared to a 63% share in overall indus-
trial production in Bolivia in 1971. Thus there has been a net increase in
both the volume and percentage of industrial loans made outside of the La Paz
area.
4.15      There has also been a considerable lengthening of average loan term,
and a much greater percentage of loans now finance fixed assets as opposed
to working capital, indications of the growing maturity of BISA as a term-
lending institution. Fixed assets accounted for close to 80% of 1975 ap-
provals, 1/ compared to a mere 54% of loans approved in 1973. Loans for
more than five years had a share of more than 60% of 1975 lending, compared
to a low 18% in 1973. Also, while BISA has not been very promotional in
terms of equity investments, it has been active in financing the creation of
new enterprises. Loans to new enterprises accounted for 30% of the 1975
lending approval amount, and 23% of total approvals since inception.
2.   Small Industrial Enterprise Credit
4.16      BISA has also been providing credit to small industrial enter-
prises 2/ almost since inception (Table 4-5). Each of these are loans for up
to US$30,000 equivalent with terms of about 3 to 4 years, which accounted for
about half of the total number of loans approved in 1975 3/ and for about 8%
of total approval amount.  Close to 70% of lending approvals for this type
of credit in 1975 were made to enterprises outside of La Paz. This was due
to the active participation of six commercial banks, several of which have
branches all over the country, which accounted for about two thirds of 1975
lending. The commercial banks guarantee the loans channeled through them,
for which they receive a 3% p.a. fee from the subborrowers. Approvals have
been widely distributed among industries, but with some concentration in
food products and construction materials. A sample of 12 firms to which BISA
had made this type of credit had average total assets of US$63,000 equivalent
1/   Up to mid-September.
2/   Defined as firms having equity of no more than US$50,000 and employing
not more than 50 people.
3/   Up to November 30.



- 32 -
and average annual sales of US$91,000 equivalent. BISA expects that about 10%
of future lending would be for small enterprises.
4.17      During negotiations it was agreed that BISA would Improve its pro-
cedures for loans to small-scale enterprises In order to ensure that appraisal
standards are more evenly applied and subproject implementation more closely
supervised. BISA would Insist with respect to each subproject that commer-
cial banks provide a summary statement containing information and their eval-
uation of the entrepreneur, the enterprise and the subproject being undertaken,
including the procurement list. Among other things, this would permit BISA
to check if goods and services procured are reasonably priced. A brlef annual
summary report on outstanding subprojects would also be required from the
participating commercial banks. BISA would disburse its funds against docu-
ments evidencing payments and would periodically claim reLmbursements from
the Bank for its forelgn cost expenditures.
3.   Equity Investments and Other Operations
4.18      As of the end of December 1975, equity investments consisted of
only two promotional investments, a steel rolling mill and a marble quarry,
amounting to about US$121,000 at cost, both of which BISA may lose com-
pletely (Table 4-6). These investments were made before 1969, when BISA dld
not have adequate project evaluation expertise. Since then, BISA has taken
a cautious approach to equity investments, which may be understandable in the
light of this experience and also in view of the difficulties in selling
equity investments in Bolivia. While the share of equity investments in
overall operations is expected to remain relatively small in the future,
management is prepared to glve more consideratlon to attractive investment
opportunities.
4.19      Other operations consist of letters of credit (L/Cs) and guarantees
which amounted to some US$2.3 million outstanding by year-end 1975. These
activities have relatively lower priority among BISA's operations and are
undertaken primarily as part of BISA's project financlng activities.
D.   Financial Structure and Results
1.   Financial Structure
4.20      In line with overall expansion of approvals, total assets grew
sharply over the past two years, increasing from $b 109 million at year-end
1973 to about $b 211 million at year-end 1975 (Table 4-7). Total portfolio,
including L/Cs and guarantees, grew by more than 60% in 1974 and in 1975 it
reached about $b 235 milllon. Although BISA retained all earnings di'rng the
period from 1972 to 1975, 1/ equity increased at a lower rate over this
1/   Dividends will be paid in 1976, out of 1975 earnings.



- 33 -
period as the debt/equity ratio 1/ Increased from 3.5:1 at year-end 1973 to
about 4.9:1 at year-end 1975. The contractual debt/equity limitation with
IDA Is presently 6:1, which still allows BISA some room for growth on its
existing capital base but would require a substantial equity inflow over
the next few years, given the projected continued rapid growth in assets.
As an incentive for resource mobilization, the Bank and IDA would expand this
debt/equity ratio limitation under the proposed project to allow an additional
1:1 ratio specific to resources mobilized in the domestic market through the
issue of debt securities (para. 4.29). This is justified by financial and
institutional improvements in BISA since the appraisal of the IDA Credit and
should not adversely affect BISA's sound financial position.
4.21      Liquidity has been adequate, with a current ratio at year-end 1975
of about 2.1:1, due to the much shorter average term of its loan portfolio
compared to its debt. BISA is not exposed to any significant foreign exchange
risk in its operations resulting from a possible devaluation of the Bolivian
peso. In fact, the large 68% devaluation of the Bolivian peso in 1972, while
indirectly affecting BISA's earnings, resulted in a windfall foreign exchange
gain whlch doubled total equity in peso terms.
2.   Profitability and Dividend Yield
4.22      BISA's earnings have begun to recover from the decline in the early
seventies, which resulted from the deterioration of the overall economic
situation in Bolivia. Before that decline, BISA had an acceptable earnings
performance, with return on average equity exceeding 16% for both 1968 and
1969 before decreasing to 14% In 1970 and shrinking to a mere 4% in 1971
(see table below and Table 4-8). Return on average equity reached about 12%
in 1975 before, and 10% after provisions for possible portfolio losses. The
increase in the level of profitability has been due to the recovery of gross
income, which In turn has been due to increases in the legal ceilings on
interest rates and higher income from commissions. The legal ceilings on
loans made with foreign funds and on those made with Its own resources were
increased from 10% and 12%, to 12% and 13%, respectively, in June 1974. More
recently, the interest ceiling on loans made with own resources, including
dollar-denominated loans, was again increased to 15%, which would improve
profitability even further and which would make some domestic resource mobili-
zation through market bond Issues possible (para. 4.29).
4.23      Financial expenses have remained fairly stable over the past few
years at around 3-4% of average total assets (ATA). Thus, with the recovery
of gross Income from about 10% in 1971 to about 13.6% of ATA in 1975, gross
spread as a percentage of ATA has increased from about 6.2% in 1971 to 9.4%
in 1975. This Increase is also partially due to the increase in other
1/   As defined in the IDA Credit Agreement, which includes contractual debt,
guarantee agreements and L/Cs in debt, but considers the subordinated
AID Loan as equity.



- 34 -
operations consisting of L/Cs and bills endorsed, which are "below-the-line"
items not normally included In assets. However, the favorable impact of
increased spread on profitability has been somewhat reduced by increases In
administrative costs mentioned earlier. The income and cost ratios are
shown below for the period 1968 to 1975:
As % of ATA /1             1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973    1974    1975
Total income               11.3   11.7   10.2    9.6    8.9    9.4    11.9    13.6
Financial expenses          3.1    4.6    3.6    3.3    3.0    3.5        3.3     4.2
Administrative expenses   3.8    3.2    3.0    3.6    2.8    3.2          4.4      4.1
Net profit                  2.2    2.2    1.9    0.6    1.0    0.7        2.3      1.8 /2
As % of Average Equlty
Net profit                 17.0   16.3   13.9    4.0    8.3    4.8 /3 11.9         9.7 /2
Dividends as % of
Year-End Share Capital
Cash                       11.5    4.8   11.6    2.9        -      -        -     5.4
Stock                         -    6.8       -      -    9.0       -      9.1     0.9 /4
/1   ATA includes loans utilizing foreign commercial bank lines, which BISA
classifies as guarantees.
/2   These would be lower than what BISA would report, since BISA includes
revenues from sale of shares above par value in income, in compliance
with government regulations. These percentages also exclude provisions
for portfolio losses.
/3   Understated since windfall foreign exchange gains were incorporated
directly into capital.
/4   5.4% if revenues from sale of shares above par value are distributed as
stock dividends.
4.24      From 1966-1971 BISA also sustained an average cash dividend rate of
about 8%. It was only during the period of polltical instability with its
corresponding adverse effect on earnings that BISA had to undergo a period of
consolidation and had to stop paying cash dividends. BISA has resumed cash
dividends with a 5.4% rate (of year-end share capital) out of 1975 earnings.
3.   Portfolio Quality and Reserves
4.25      BISA's loan portfolio is generally sound, adequately secur'd with col-
lateraland guarantees, and covered with some loss provisions. As of December
31, 1975, 21 loans made to 13 clients accounting for 6.6% of total loan
portfolio were in arrears for more than three months, with about 37% of the
loan portfolio in the grace period (Tables 4-9 and 4-10). Of the total
portfolio of clients in arrears, about 40% is accounted for by old loans to
the two companies promoted by BISA (para. 4.18). BISA has taken legal action



- 35 -
in 12 cases 1/ and due to good security expects to recover at least 80% of the
principal amount outstanding. In 1975 2/ eight loans were rescheduled with
total principal amount outstanding of $b 6.6 million, or 4% of the loan
portfolio. These loans appear to be basically sound with the rescheduling in
some cases being due to BISA's policy of setting rather tight loan terms
(Table 4-11).
4.26     A specific reserve of $b 2.3 million has been set aside to almost
fully cover the cost of BISA's two equity investments. Provisions for pos-
sible losses (net of the specific reserve above) amount to $b 2.7 million,
or only about 1.2% of total portfolio, which is barely adequate. BISA's
management has agreed to increase this provision annually, so as to reach 3%
by 1980. This would be acceptable given the projected low percentage of
equity investments in total portfolio.
4.   External Audit
4.27      BISA has been audited by Arthur Young and Co. since 1967.  Several
improvements have been incorporated into the 1975 audit report which, though
still requiring further improvement, is now acceptable.
E.   Resource Position and Requirements
1.   Resource Position and Domestic Resource Mobilization
4.28      BISA has been fairly successful in raising foreign resources from
official development institutions, such as IDB, KfW, AID and IDA. This is
reflected In BISA's resource position as of December 31, 1975, which shows
$b 176 million in uncommitted foreign currency resources (Tables 4-12 and
4-13). However, due to the difficulty of raising local funds, domestic
resource position has been rather tight and has tended to limit BISA's
flexibility in the financing of projects. So far, BISA has been able to
partially lift this constraint by utilizing foreign commercial bank credit
lines for working capital purposes and, more recently, through an IDB loan,
part of which could be utilized to finance local costs. These measures have
supplemented BISA's domestic currency resources, of which only $b 8.5 million
were available for commitment at year-end 1975.
4.29     BISA is aware that these measures are stop-gap in nature and that,
in the long run, efforts would be required to develop the domestic capital
market. Thus, as an initial step, it is considering mobilizing domestic re-
sources through the issuance of debt securities of at least one-year term.
During negotiations, BISA agreed to undertake a study to determine the feasib-
ility of establishing a program for the sale of such securities and to use its
best efforts to carry out a program which would have the equivalent of at
1/   The 13th may be rescheduled.
2/   Up to November 30.



- 36 -
least US$2 million worth of securities outstanding by December 31, 1978.
An initial effort could break the ground for larger issues in the future,
which would not only help satisfy the considerable working capital needs of
industrial and mining enterprises, but would also help improve BISA's pro-
fitability through full utilization of the proposed additional 1:1 debt!
equity ratio, limited to local bond issues. However, since BISA has not
been involved in this type of activity before, it could encounter some un-
foreseen difficulties in meeting the aforementioned target. This activity
would, therefore, be closely monitored during project supervision.
2.   Demand for the Proposed Loan
4.30      Although the IDA Credit for mining subprojects and the IDB loan for
industrial subprojects have not yet been fully committed, an analysis of
BISA's project pipeline and loan approval rate indicates the need for addi-
tional foreign long-term funds of at least US$10 million up to 1978.  As of
year-end 1975, BISA still had to commit about US$6 million of the IDB loan,
and about US$3 million of the IDA Credit. At the projected approval rate,
BISA should fully commit the IDA Credit by about September 1976 and the IDB
loan by about mid-1977. The latter, however, has certain restrictions regard-
ing sources of procurement which create the need for complementary financing
sources. Thus, before year-end 1976 BISA would need additional term funds not
only for mining subprojects but for industrial subprojects as well. On the
basis of BISA's tentative project pipeline, 70% of the loan would be utilized
for mining subprojects, although a continuation of the presently depressed
conditions of the mineral market could also result in lower loan commitments
for mining. However, medium-term market prospects are reasonably good.
3.   Share Capltal Requirements and Financing Plan
4.31     Availability of new share capital, particularly from local sources,
represents the major constraint to BISA's growth and development. In order
to grow at the projected rate up to 1978, BISA would require some US$1.87
million in new share capital subscriptions, to be paid in during 1976 to 1978,
in addition to projected earnings retention of about US$1.0 million 1/ over
this period. This implies a more than doublfng of the US$2.0 million equity
base at year-end 1975. The proposed IFC share capital subscription of up to
$b 11 million (US$550,000 equivalent) is likely to induce other groups, parti-
cularly local shareholders, to subscribe on a parallel basis. BISA has in-
formed us that they are in an advanced stage of negotiations with the Deutsche
Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG), a German Government development institution,
as well as with existing major shareholders, for subscriptions of share
capital on a pari passu basis of 2:1 with the proposed IFC investment. On
this basis, BISA expects to meet its share capital needs up to 1978. The
proposed investment would make IFC an important shareholder of BISA with
about 15% of share capital by 1978.
1/   Excluding build-up of reserves for portfolio losses but including total
current earnings at year-end 1978.



- 37 -
F.   Projected Operations, Financial Structure and Results
1.   Projected Operations
4.32      Approvals are projected to grow by an average compounded annual
rate of about 12% up to 1980 in current dollar terms on the 1975 base of
about $b 216 million (Table 4-14). Due to large increases in approvals during
1974 and 1975, however, which would be committed and disbursed from 1975 to
1977, commitments and disbursements would increase at a much higher rate
initially. Projected approvals, commitments and disbursements for selected
years are shown below:
Actual             Projected
1975        1976   1978   1980
$b million
Approvals                            216          248    314    384
Commitments                          185          243    301    370
Disbursements                        122          185    301    356
4.33      Mining projects are expected to account for about a quarter of the
total amount approved up to 1980. This indicates that while BISA expects
mining to account for a significant share of total operations, most loans
would continue to be made to the industrial sector. Equity investments
are projected to remain at a low level relative to BISA's total operations
and would account for less than 1% of disbursements. Approvals for the small
industrial enterprise credit line are expected to account for about 10% of
BISA's total loan approvals. Other operations, consisting of letters of
credit and bills endorsed, are expected to increase by about 12% p.a. from
the 1975 base. This would depend, however, on the slack BISA might have in
its debt/equity ratio, which could allow it to engage more heavily than
projected in these other activities. Operations are expected to become more
geographically diversified over the five-year period. BISA is likely to
achieve its projected growth rate in operations, since considerable demand
exists for term financing in both the privaFe industrial and mining sectors.
2.   Financial Structure
4.34      The debt/equity ratio for existing operations 1/ is projected to
remain within the 6:1 limitation, rising from 4.9:1 at year-end 1975 to about
5.7:1 by 1977, and to about 5.8:1 by 1980 (Table 4-15). The debt/equity ratio
specific to resources mobilized in the domestic market (e.g., bonds) is pro-
jected to reach 0.4:1 by 1978. The projections indicate a comfortah1' current
ratio for BISA and ample debt service ratios (Table 4-16).
1/   Including contractual debt and guarantees plus L/Cs (but excluding local
bonds) in debt, and including the non-current portion of the subordinated
AID loan in equity.



- 38 -
4.35      Assets are projected to rise sharply, with a compounded growth rate
of over 40% p.a. up to 1978, and with the rate tapering off somewhat towards
1979 and 1980. Partly due to the lag in disbursement of loans committed in
prior years, assets are projected to more than double from the year-end 1975
base of about $b 211 million to about $b 508 million at year-end 1977. Assets
are projected to grow more moderately thereafter to $b 660 million by year-end
1978 and to $b 945 million by year-end 1980. Growth of total portfolio 1/
would closely parallel that of assets, increasing from about $b 235 million at
year-end 1975 to about $b 700 million by 1978 and reaching one billion pesos
by 1980.
3.   Profitability and Dlvidend Yield
4.36      Profitability is projected to improve significantly over the next
few years, with return on average equity increasing from about 10% in 1975
to about 16% from 1978 onwards (Table 4-17). As previously stated, this is
due partly to increased financial leverage and the recovery of earlier loans
made at lower interest rates (10% on foreign funds and 12% on BISA's own
resources), which could then be relent at higher current interest rates (12%
on foreign funds and 15% on BISA's own resources). Administrative costs are
also projected to decline from 4.1% of ATA In 1975 to about 1.7% by 1978 and
1.4% by 1980, largely due to economies of scale arising from the increased
level of operations. These two factors would more than offset the expected
rise in financial costs from about 4.2% of ATA in 1975 to 6.2% in 1980. The
projected income and cost ratios for selected years are shown below:
1/   Including L/Cs and guarantees.



- 39 -
Actual              Projected
1975        1976   1978   1980
As % of ATA /1
Total income                  13.6         13.5   13.1   13.1
Financial expenses             4.2          4.1    5.4    6.2
Administrative costs           4.1          3.0    1.7    1.4
Net profit /2                  1.8          2.0    2.3    2.3
As % of Average Equity
Net profit /2                  9.7         12.1   15.8   16.2
As % of Year-End Share Capital
Cash dividends                 5.4         - /3   8.0    9.5
Stock dividends /2             (.9         - /3   8.2    7.9
/1   Including loans utilizing foreign commercial bank lines,
which BISA classifies as guarantees.
/2   These would be lower than what BISA would report, since
BISA includes revenues from sale of shares above par
value in income, in compliance with government regula-
tions. BISA also considers the provisions for portfolio
losses as an appropriation of income.
/3   During negotiations, it was agreed to increase portfolio
provisions gradually to reach 3% of total portfolio by 1980.
This would allow BISA to declare dividends out of 1976
earnings.
4.37      The increased level of profitability should allow BISA to sustain
a cash dividend rate of about 8% from 1978 onwards. There is presently no
active market for BISA shares. However, with the projected higher profit-
ability and dividend yield, management expects to develop some market for
its shares over the next few years. On this basis, by 1982 IFC should have
a reasonable opportunity to divest its prospective shareholdings to local
shareholders or even to foreign institutional investors over a two- to three-
year period. Based on the projected earnings and dividends, the IFC invest-
ment is estimated to have a discounted rate of return exceeding 10% in current
dollars, which is acceptable.



TPolo 4-1
A12   1   IA
A Into of orcoo-d
I...J...L  .......,.       1 9 71                  19 2                     197 3                   1 9 74                   1 9 7 5Toalclcot
T..  ftwmt                                                                                 ft~~~~~~~~~~Mo   Amout  7         ___          _
Up to 16,500                 35  VA6.          53    31      237.3    13    27        1116.15    6    37      229.9    11    24        55. 1      3    20       177.9    2    559    3,456.4          12
16,301 - 41,990  3   61.6  9    13     367.1    20    10       154~~. 0   9     13       181       6    24      643.7      9    22       633.0   10    147    3,697.3           22'
41,001 - 42,000                3   19.4        97   43    142.9    13   5t             9.o1826                          1       6      377.6      3     7      385.0    9       61    3,193.1         21
42.001 en a2ho.                23192.4        21            .l.        4     J   4 22251 19.10   4 .         .9.              .2! 2.  16.029    .1     2    LOIii              2       6.69           6
Total          41  699.7       100    is   1.834.1   100    56   1,818.0   100   'ft   2,024.0   100    76   7,M35.2   100    68 6.319.1  100    962   29,736.7                        100
II.  By loon Ic Activity
Food pooducto                     132.3        19    15      792.9    43    11         468.3    16     9      172.8      9    19   1,941.6    27         7     149.1    9    102    4,149.3           31
B-mg"                  a~~2  9.6        1      2      53.0      5      1        2.3    --      3       89.6      4      5      588.2      a6     3     230.0    4       391,400.9              4
T.-II.o.                       4  151.9        22      3     193.0    10    .2        113.35     6     6      442.3    22       6     192.7       8    11   1.359,4   22        01    4.637,6         15
C.Cosc an  boocoa              3   23.0         3      5      36.6      2      4       68.35     4     6       76.0      4      1       10.1    --    --            -r -.       36       468.4         2
Wccd produto                   216.4f           4      4      49.4      3      2       10.0      1     4       32.9      2      2       40.0    -        4     604.1      96    59    1,232.0          4
Focoituo                       1    4.1        -.     2       43.3      2      1        6.0    --      2       23.0      1    -.         --      I.     1       10.0    -       21       136.1        --
P"-oio                         3    5.9         I  1  1        9.9      1    --         --      --     4       29.4      1      2       13.0    --     -    --       --         30       468.4         2
Lootlaooood.                   540.2            0     5       20.2      1      1       16.5      1 --           --      --      1      29.5    -        1       10.3-           35       244.2         1
6o6.brgosdo                  -.      --        -     --                                                                                                           --             3        20.1        --
Ch-i-I produ-.                 4  147.2        21     3      157,3      8      7      212.0    12      2      462.2    23       5     471.0       7     5      5301.3    0      49    2,609.9          9
Plontlo produto               --     -         -     -          -3                    371.5    20      1       18.0      1      1     360.0      3      1      230.0    4       60j    1,009.2         6
Cnnotneuo   ntoojalo          1I     5.6       1L     2        9.5      1      2       31.0      2     5       21.4             4       896.5    --     5      392.35    6      19    1,319.2          4
Eilaldigaadco,aotnctlo        3   41.5          6    --        --      --      2       9.0       5    ..         -      --      4     325.0      5    --         --     --      29       338.6         2
focal produt.                 --     -          -     1        6.6    --       3       63.0      4     3      108.5      5      80    770.9    11       5      272.0    4       29    1,442.9          3
other .aofatu-log              7L110.         16    16       489.9    26       3     433.0       6    10      371.5    10       9     183.1      3    13       330.3    9    113    2,9012.1          10
Tor                          - -              ---                     -      10      11lL5    23      9      175.6      9      53    760.9    11       2       90.0    1       19    1,424.0          5
Ktoico.~-                                                                                                               -           1.064.5      5      8 1.3_10,8   24    jj         2.887,5         1
TOtal          41  699.7       100    52   1,034.1   too    s4   s.,oss.o   ieo0   42   2,014.0   100    76   7,265,2  ~.100    46   4,319.1  100    962   26,736.7                   100
III.  By Tor
l  to2 y-ar                  16  313.3        45    13       417.1    23    17       333.5    Is    20        311.3    13    34   1,902.8    26    17   1,044.0   16    312   5,728.3                 19
2 c  5 y-ar                  25  330.0        47    37   1,062.4    57    33   1,142.0    63    35   1,002.7    50    34   1,584.4    22    32   1,362.6   22    471  12,368.9                        47
Moro chaoS year,  .1    53.2    .4      ~~~~~3 374.3  -.35              34        19   -7    _2L           1      0 377,            2    19 3.911,7   42          7511.639,35           3
T.tol          41  699.7       100    53   1,634,1   100    54   1,818,0   100    62  9t2,024,0   100    76   7,263.2   100    00   6.319.1: 100    662  29.736,7                     100
r.. p.o              ~~~~~~~31  533.6  76    4Q      994,9    54    37   1,254.5    69    44   1.225,1    60    47   4,564.5    63    52   4,6444,3   75    544  19.631,5                     66
S,n,   tre1 12.4                                  2      3     266.0    14       6      320.0    10s     3      480.7    24    15   1,376.6    19    14          916,8   15    III   5,132.0            17
0oc6o4~~~~~~~a ~5  133.9               19     9      520.5    28       7      233.3    13      9      241.7    12       3       74.5      1    15      448.0    7    120   2,321.4             8
Ororo   --    --        --    -.         --      --      1       ~~~~   ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~0.3    --  1 20.0    -1 1   204.0      3               -  --          15     460.4           2
foc                            1    6.4        1    -                  -     -                                                 2       35,0             2      180.0    3      19      414.2           1
c3ccqcloac                     1    3.3       --      1        3.3    -       2        5.0      .      --                                                               -      22      234.2          1
T-rOjo -oos                    1    9.0      .        2     6_7. -A -9       j_         2.35         .         56..5AO  -3    0j1.010,5         14   3-    138.0         2     321   15354 0
Totol          41  699.7       100    35   1,054.1   100    54   1,019.0   100    62   2,024.0   100    76   7,265.2   100    68   6,319.1  100    662  29.736,7                      100
V.  iv o   o
FOun.d u.oto         .            350.0..     10          1.112,4    60    -    1,200.0    71    ~    1,099.8    54    -    4,980,9    69    -    4.927,9   708                -   19,681,0          66
Worklog capitl              .z   34924       .10             741,6   42       - .   520.0    29   .           9240.1    6           2,_2843     3       - 1312          2      z    &,27
Total          41  699.7       100    53   1,834,1   100       54   1,010.0   100    62   2,024.0   100    76   7,263.2   100    66   6,310.1  100    062  29,736.7                   100
VI.  fyTone o Rncoorio
on  oot-pr.oo.                 3   30.1        4      5     406.0    22       7      271.0    135   10       310.1    16    27   1,701.4    23          9   1,870.6   30       92   6,788.5          23
.tbolg  nt-oprl.oo          .35  6sl6         t   .50   1._4"0    70   _47   1,547.0    -5   -L    1, .9   -A4    49   5 363.8                  7     35   4.468.5   70    770  22 948.4             -77
Totol          41  699.7       100    55   1,034.1   100    54   1,010.0   100    62   2,024,0   100    76   7,265,2   100    68   6,319.1  100    862  29,736,7                      100
VII.  By Ocouc  of Puodo
Own ftodo                    20  111,0        19    19      404,2    11    21.    266.0    20    -           510,9    25    -    1,460,5    20    -           409,0    6             5,092,6          17
AID                           19  480?7       69    20      999J.2    53    19       571.0    31    -        366.3    10    -    1.669,0    15s        -      360.4      6           9,250.2          31
B1D                           2   83.5        12      5     103,6      6      4      223,3    123     -      540.6    27    -. 2,212,3    27                1,942.66,    31         5,438,8          19
Cntrol BoAt                   -                       1     173,4      9      1      282,3    106     -      599,1    30    -         474.08     6    --       51,1   13       -- 2,724.9             SI
198                          -                        2      103,5    10      4      373,0    21           -     -.- -            1,107.6       15          1,116.4   10 8           3,223.9          11
IDA                                          --        --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -  -   -  -- --  --                     -----              1,0993,0    17      1- ,093.04
Lecim  crclti.  heal.                                                                . ---Z.  -                                   1.9-42,3    27   -z-      560.5.         .zz   i28-823          ___9
Total         41  609.7       100    35   1,034.1   150    54   1,810,0   100    62   2,024.0   100    76   7,261.2   100    68   6,319,1  100    942  20,736.7                       100
1/ Up to Soptcer 15, 1975,
Ply 1976



BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Small-Scale Industrial Enterprise Credit
Summary of oans Approved
(in USt' 000)
1/                                                                                                    1/
1 9 74                    1 9 7 5                                                                     1 9 7 4                   1 9 7 5
No.   Amount     %        No.  Amount       %                                                         No.  Amount       h       No.  Amount       %
I.  By Size                                                                                              III.  By Location
Up to 5,000                                 6      22.5     5.8       5      19.7      3.1                  La Paz                               18     244.7    63.0      12      202.3    31.8
5,001 to 10,001                             7      61.5    15.8      12     105.0    16.5                  Sta. Cruz                              8     106.0    27.3       9      186.8    29.3
10,001 to 20,000                           11     1704    43.8      10     172.8    27.1                  Cochabamba                             1      29.5      7.6     11      108.0    17.0
20,001 to 30,000                            5     134.3    34.6      12     339.6    53.3                   Tarija-Potosi                         1       2.5      0.6      4       80.0    12.6
Others                                1       6.0      1.5      3       60.0     9.4
Total                    29     388.7   100.0      39     637.1   100.0
29     388.7   100.0      39      637.1   100.0
II,  By Economic Activity                                                                                  IV.  By Financial Intermediary
Food products                               3      45.0    11.6       7      85.8    13.5                   Direct loan                          11     203.4    52.3      11      221.3    34.7
Beverages                                   -        -        -       2      30.0      4.7                  Banco Hipotecario Nacional            5      57.9    14.9      16      160.5    25.2
Textiles                                    3      31.8     8.1       3      32.4      5.1                  Banco Nacional de Bolivia             7      76.4    19.6       3       50.0     7.8
Garment and footwear                        -        -        -       3      35.0      5.5                  Banco Mercantil                       6      51.0    13.1       6      137.8    21.6     j
Wood products                               2      40.0    10.3       2      35.0      5.5                  Banco Popular del Peru                -        -        -       1       30.0     4.7
Furniture                                   1      10.0     2,6       1      10.0      1.6                  Banco Credito Oruro                   -        -        -       1        7.5     1.2
Metal working                               4      51.7    13.3       1      10.0      1.6                  Banco Cochabamba                      -         -       -       1       30.0     4.7
Leather goods                               1      29.5     7.6       1      10.0      1.6
Chemical products                           1      24.5     6.3       3      80.4    12.6                                          Total         29     388.7   100.0      39      637.1   100.0
Construction materials                      3      47.5    12.2      10     184.5    28.9
Agro-industry                               3      29.2      7.5      -         -       -
Transport services                          2      28.2     7.2       1      30.0      4.7
Others                                      6      51.3    13.2       5      94.0    14.7
Total                    29     388.7   100.0      39     637.1   100.0
1/ Up to November 30th.
LCPDF
May 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
0o
C.



B O L I V I A
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Status of Equity Investments.December 31.  1975
(in $b million)
Share-       Esti-   Dividends                    % of Equity             Other
Year of                                                   holding      mated   Received    Provisions    Held by                    Operations
investment        Compang        Industry    Status       (at Cost)   Value   in 1975        for Losses-/    BISA           Loans   Guarantees   Total Exposure
1967      Industria Boli-   Steel         In liqui-      2.13         0         --           2.13          32.2         3.76         __              5.89
viana de Hierro   rolling    dation
y Acero S.A.
(IBHASA)
1968      Explotadora         Marble      Operating      0.30         0         --           0.21           23.8        1.11          --             1.41
de Marmol y        quarry      at a loss
Cal S.A.
(EMARCASA)
1/ To be increased to cover investments fully.
9CPD1976
*s



Table 4-7
BANCO INDUSTRIAL  UNING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PCT
Audited Balance Sheets as of December 31
(in $b million)
5'
1968            1969            1970             1971            1972             1973            1974            197r
ASSETS
Cash and banks                                 4.67            4.18            6.69             5.37            6.27            14.00            3.54           6.7
Miscellaneous receivables                      2.58            2.94            2.98             2.68            3.11             3.99            6.85           13.8
Loans outstanding                            44.24            50.84           48.47            49.09           88.15           86.90           122.82 4/      186.5 4/
less provisions                           (0.20)           (0.38)          (1.09)          (1.36)           (1.17)          (1.22)           (1.83)         (2.7)
Equity and other investments (net)            2.79             2.88            2.90            2.66             2.14            2.55             2.50           2.7
Total Portfolio                       46.83           53.34           .50.28           50.39           89.12            88.23          1Z3.49          186.5
Fixed and other assets (net)                   1.45            1.40            1.71             1.70            1.64             2.40            3.06           3.8
Total Assets                          55.53           61.86            61.66           60.14          100.14           108.62          136.94          210.9
LiABILITIES AND EQUITY
Accounts payable and other                     1.87            2.01            1.47              0.87           1.39             1.38            3.48            8.3
current liabilities
Current portion of long-term  debt             1.84            2.61            3.20              3.94          10.11            9.46            23.40 4/       35.5 4/
Total Current Liabilities              3,71            4.62             4.67             4.81          11.50            10.84           26.88           43.8
USAID                                         34.19           33.71           33.13             32,74          41.48           37.53            33.35           28.8
IDB                                           4.60             9.43            9.96              8.60          13.35           16.82            23.98          47.1
KfW                                            __              __              --                --             3.88             6.99            7.02          21.4
Central Bank                                   1.40            1.70            1.04              0.36           4.59           10,67            13.65          13.9
IDA                                           --               --              --                --             --               --              --            12.6
Other                                         _ _              _ _             _ _               _ __
Total tong-Term Debt                  40.19           44.84           44.13             41.70          63.30            72.01           78.00          123.8
Other liabilities                              0.67            0.60            0.68              1.00          12.081/           1.21            1.03            1.4
AID loan (quasi-equity)                        3.60            3.60            3.60              3.60           3.60             3.60            3.60            3.6
Paid-in share capital                          5.83            6.21            6.61              7.61           7.67           18,892/          23.74          31.6
Legal reserve                                 0.40             0.54            0.67              0.71           0.81            0i88             0.98           1.8
Reserves for AID Loan                         0.12             0.26            0.39              0.44           0.54            0.61             0.71           1.5
Retained earnings                              1.01            1.19            0.91              0.27           0.64            0.57             2.01           3.4
Total Equity                           7.36            8.20             8.58             9.03           9.66            20.95           27.43           38.3
Total Liabilities and Equity          55.53           61.86            61.66            60.14         100.14           108.62          136.94          210.9
Contingent Liabilities
L/Cs opened with foreign banks             3.18             0.73            0.24             0.22            6.73            3.36           13.65           17.1
Bills endorsed                             2.84             2.46            3.03             1.30            8.00            0.83           11.38           28.3
RATIOS
Current ratio                                 n.-.             n.a.            n..               n.a.           2.8              5.1            2.7             2.1
Debt/equity (per Loan Agreement)              4.4              4.3             4.2               3.7            6.6             3.5             4.1             4.9
Loss provisions as % of total portfolio3   0.4                 0.7             2.0               2.6            1.1             1.3             1.2             1.2
Reserves and retained earnings as
% of total portfolio 3/                    3.3             4.2              5.6              5.2             3.0             3.5            3.7              4.0
Percentage increase in portfolio 3/          28.1              7.0            (5.3)             (3.1)         100.0           (11.0)           60.7            56.0
Percentage increase in total assets          27.6             11.7            (0.3)             (2.5)          66.5             8.5            26.1            54.0
i/ Includes $bll.25 million unrealized foreign exchange gain.
2/ Includes $blO.46 million windfall foreign exchange gain incorporated directly into capital instead of being passed through the income statement.
X/ Includes L/Ca and bills endorsed.
4/ Includes funds from foreign commercial banks estimated at $bI3.0 million for 1974 and $b24.2 million for 1975.
51 From audit report and annual report to shareholders.
LCPDF
May 1976



44                                                         Table 4-8
B  L I V I A
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTUfAL CREDIT PROJECT
Audited Profit and Loss Statements for Periods ending December 31
=-   (in  Mb KI.LL=J                                                           7
1968           1969            1970            1971            1972           1973            1974            1975
INCOME
Interest on loans                            4.68           6.17            5.73            5.15            6.45            8.11          10.53          14.9
Commissions                                  0.83           0.67            0.47            0.16            0.41            1.11            2.15          7.6
Others                                       0.11            0.05           0.13            0.55            0.31            0.57            1.98          1.2 2/
Total Income                         5.62            6.89            6.33            5.86            7.17           9.79           14.66          23.7
EXPENSES
Financial expenses                           1.56            2.70           2.24            2.01            2.41            3.63           4.06           7.3
Gross spread                         4.06            4.19            4.09            3.85            4.76            6.16          10.60          16.4
Salarieb and personnel expenses              1.34            1.36           1.34            1.55            1.55            2.11            3.55          4.3
Other administrative expenses                0.53            0.52           0.50            0.66            0.74            1.18            1.89          2.8
Contributions                                0.10            0.12           0.12            0.12            0.15            0.20            0.11          0.3
Depreciation                                 0.09           0.09            0.11            0.10            0.10            0.12            0.17          0.2
Write-off of portfolio losses                --              --             --              0.56            0.60            1.16            1.11          0.9
Other                                        0.35           0.21            0.28            0.33            0.42            0.36           0.57           1.1
Total Non-Financial Expenses         2.41            2.30            2.35            3.32            3.56           5.13            7.20           9.6
Profit Before Taxes                  1.65            1.89            1.74            0.53            1.20           1.03            3.40           6.9
Provisions for taxes                         0.41           0.47            0.44            0.14            0.32            0.23           0.42           2.3
Contribution to employees fund               0.13           0.14            0.13            0.04            0.10            0.07            0.10          0,6
Net Profit                            1.11           1.28            1.1i            0.35            0.78           0.73            2.89           4.0 V
APPROPRIATIONS
Legal reserve                                0.12           0.14            0.13            0.04            0.10            0.07           0.10           0.6
Reserve for AID loan                         0.12           0.14            0.13            0.05            0.10            0.07           0.10           0.6
Cash dividends                               0.67           0.30            0.77            0.22            --              --              --            1.7
Stock dividends                              --             0.42            --              --              0.69            --              2.18 8/       0.3 2/
Unappropriated surplus V/                    0.20           0.28            0.14            0.04            0.04            0.57           0.51           0.8 3/
RATIOS
Total income as I of average total          11.3           11.7             10.2             9.6            8.9             9.4           11.9           13.6
assets (ATA)
Financial expenses as % of ATA               3.1            4.6              3.6            3.3             3.0             3.5            3.3            4.2
Gross spread as h of ATA                     8.2             7.1             6.6            6.3             5.9             5.9            8.6            9.4
Administrative expenses as 7 of ATA          3.8            3.2              3.0            3.6             2.8             3.2            4.4            4.1
Other expenses (incl. taxes) as I of ATA   2.2              1.7              1.7            2.1             2.1             2.0            2.0            3.5
Net profit as 7 of ATA                       2.2             2.2            1.9             0.6             1.0             0.7            2.3            1.8 5/
Net profit as % of average equity           17.0           16.3            13.9             4.0             8.3             4.8 4/        11.9            9.7 5/
Cash dividend pay-out ratio (I)             60.4           23.4            65.8            62.9             --              --              --           53.1 5/
Cash dividend as I of year-end shares       11.5            4.8            11.6             2.9             --              --              --            5.4 5/
capital
Stock dividends as I of year-end             --             6.8             --              --             9.0                             9.1            0.9  /
share capital
1/ Normally appropriated as portfolio loss reserves.
2/ Excludes an estimated $bl.4 million from sale of share capital above book velue which BISA includes in income.
3/ In Annex 4-19, appropriated as provision for portfolio losses and deducted from income.
4/ Understated, since $blO.46 million windfall foreign exchange gain arising fri the 1972 devaluation was incorporated directly into share capital
instead of being passed through the income statement.
5/ $b842,000 provision for portfolio losses was deducted from income in the computation of these ratios.
6/ In Annex 4-17, deducted from earoings as provisions for portfolio losses.
7/ Based on both the audit report and annual report to shareholders.
8/ Includes an upward adjustment of $b280,000 made after year-end 1974.
LCPDF
May 1976



B O L I V I A
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDTr PROJECT
Status of Arrears as of December 31, 1975
(in $b 7000)
A.  Status of Loans as of June 30, 1975                                             Principal Outstanding
No. of Loans                  Amount              %
Repaying regularly                                    214                      103,685            56.o
In grace period                                        65                       69,o80            37.3
In arrears over 3 months                                   21                       12,2982            6.6
Total                  300                      185,063             100.0
-                          ==S====
B. Aging of Arrears
No. of             Principal                                                                   Total Principal
Companies         Outstanding                       Arrears       Interest in Arrears        and Interest in Arrears
Amount         %      Amount            _         Amount            %        Amount                %
3 - 6 months                   6            7,191        58.5       6,442          55.9          730          19.4       7,172               46.9
6 - 12 months                  -              -            -          -             -             -
12 - 24 months                 1               88         0.7          63           0.5           15           0.4           78               0.5
Over 24 months                 6y           51019        40.8       5,019          43.6        3,022          80.2        8,041              52.6
Total      13          12,298       100.0      11,524          100.0        3,767         100.0      15,291              100.0
j Made to a total of 13 companies.
/ Excludes amount to be written off of $b 208,000.
CD
j Companies in liquidation.
LCPDF
May, 1976



B O L I V I A
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loans in Arrears Over Three Months as of December 31, 1975
(in $b '000)
-             Principal       Age of       Likelihood of         Action Taken by
L.  Companies operating at                 Outstanding    Arrears       Recovery                  BISA
a loss or with major
problems
Fabrica  de Dulces La Estrella              84.5       3-6 mo.             50%                legal
Fabrica  de Oieros el Inca                 117.9       3-6 mo.       above 90%                legal
Industria Boliviana Textil               2,758.6       3-6 Mo.       above 90%                legal
bnpresa Constructora Integral              634.8       3-6 mo.      above 90%                 legal
Bmpresa Industrial Lizardo Barrancos       451.7       3-6 mo.       above 90%                legal
Fabrica  Nacional de Pilas               3,143.4       3-6 mo.       above 90%                rescheduling being
considered
Sociedad Minera Boliviana S. A.             87.9       1 yrs.       above 90%                legal
Sub-Total                          7,2U
3.  Oompanies in liquidation
Bnpresa Industrial La Florida               44.0       7 yrs.              10%               legal
Matadero San Bernardo                       11.0       5 yrs.        above 90%                legal
Panaderia Guadalupe                         24.6       3 yrs.              50%                legal
IBHASA                                   3,757.6       4 yrs.              70%                legal
EMARCASA                                 1,111.1       3 yrs.              70%                legal
Fabrica  de Persianas Moderna Ltda.         70.7       2 yrs.        above 90%                legal
Sub-Total                         5,019.0
Total                             12,297.8
CD



- 47 -
Table 4-11
B O L I V I A
BMCO INDUSTRIAL DENING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Stateasnt of Loans Rescheduling
1975 (Up to November 30)
Amount Out-
Value of            standing when       Age of Arrears         When Previously
Borrower                       Comnitted Loan       Rescheduled         When Rescheduled       Rescheduled           Original Term      Rescheduled Term       Remarks
($b' 000)          ($bt 000)
Consorcio Azcui, Quiroga         3,153.7                   778.0            4 years                ---                  5 years              8 years           Late
Rivas e Ingenieros Asoc.                                                                                                                                       Government
La Paz                                                                                                                                                         payment.
Industrias Calatayud                100.0                   25.0            3 years                ---                  3 years            3A  years           Small
enterprise
credit line;
coomercial
bank gua-
ranteed.
Aleaciones Bolivianas
'ALBOL" LTDA.                    1,601.6                1,601.6             1 year                 ---                  8 years             81 years           Delayed
construc-
tions; new
enterprise.
EMPRESA EL DIARIO S.A.           1,049.0                    795.6           5 years             January 1971            6 years             8 years            Former
557.5                  400.4              ---                  ---                 34 years             5 years            political
problems.
Empresa Editora SIGLO LTDA.    2,002.0                    1,401.4           2 years                ---                  5 years             6 years            Increase
in raw
material
prices.
Racipren T.V.                     1,451.5                 1,541.5           1 year                 ---                  5 years             6 years            Change in
management.
Now paying
regularly.
Oswaldo Vaca Diez                   120.1                   100.1           I year                 ---                  3 years             4 years            Lower
demand for
river trans-
port.
1974
Editorial Canelas                 2,062.1                 1,480.4           7 years             November 1970          10 years            10 years            Needs
additional
equipment.
Bolivar Palace Hotel              1,199.2                 1,069.6           2 years                ---                  8 years            8f years            Increase
1,940.4                 1,667.4           2 years                ---                  8 years            81 years            in cons-
truction
costs.
Maestranza y Barraca                342.6                   171.0           2 years               Twice                 2 years             5 years            Product
Isabel la Catolica                                                                                                                                             demand and
prices went
down causing
inventories
to build-up.
Motel San Mateo                     360.0                   360.0           1 year                 ---                  5 years             5 years-/          Construe-
tiorn delays.
Radio Cochabamba                     50.3                    37.7           2 years                ---                  4 years             5 years            Low start-
82.1                   46.7                                   ---                  4 years            5 years             up revenues.
1/ A grace period of one year for capital repayments was granted.
LCPDF
May 1976



- 48-
BOLIVIA                      ~~~~~Table h-12
B 0 L I V I A                           Tbe41
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Resource Position as of December 31, 1975
(in $b '000)
I.  Domestic Currency                                             Amount
Paid-in share capital                                         31,581
Retained earnings, provisions and other reserves 3/           10,705
Quasi-equity                                                   3,600
Central Bank lines                                            19,023
AID loans                                                      8,601
Total                          73,510
Less
Loans outstanding                     42,701
Equity and other investments           2,674
Other assets                           3,771                  49.146
24,364
Less
IJndisbursed commitments                                      15.875 2/
Uncommitted domestic resources                                 8,489
II. Foreign Currency
Foreign loans 1/                                             343,043
Less
Loans outstanding                                           119,627
223,416
Less
Undisbursed commitments                                       47,625 2/
Uncommitted foreign currency resources                       175,791
1/ Includes an IDB loan, US$2.24 million of which could be utilized to finance
local costs, but excluding foreign bank lines.
2/ Estimate.
3/ Includes reserve for social benefits and for portfolio losses.
LCPDF
May 1976



B O L I V I A
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Long-term Borrowings as of December 31, 1975
Original       Amount                 Undisbursed                                                                   Revolving use
Lender                      Date       Amount          Outstanding              Amount          Cost of Borrowing    Repayment            Guarantor         possible?
USAID/Bolivia             2/11/63    $b3,6 million    $b3.6 million               -             0.75% p.a. com-       15 annual          Bolivian Govt.        Yes
mission              installments
from 2/10/79
USAID/Bolivia             8/28/63    US$2.4 million   US$1.2 million              -             3% p.a.               25 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.         Yes
AID/WME 511-L-018                                                                                                     inst. from
4129/72
USAID/Bolivia             4/14/66    $b6.0 million    $b4.0 million               -             4.5% p.a.             20 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.         Yes
511-44-920-496                                                                                                        inst. from
1/ 72
USAID/Bolivia             12/15/66   $b3,153,716       $bO.9 million              -             4.5%                  12 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.         Yes
511-LCL-1005A                                                                                                         inst. from
3/28/71
USAID/Bolivia             3/6/68      $b4.8 million    $b3.7 million              -             6% p.a.               20 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.         Yes
511-LCL-1019                                                                                                          inst. from
3/ 73
Interamerican Deve-       7/29/66    $US1.0 million   US$0.5 million              -             4% p.a.              20 half-yearly    Central Bank            Yes
lopment Bank                                                                                                         inst  from
100-SF-BO                                                                                                             1/29/72
Kreditanstalt fur          9/28/70    DM5.0 million    DM2.6 million          DM2.4 million    5.5% p.a., plus        44 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.         Yes      I
Wiederaufbau                                                                                    0.25% commitment      inst. from
A.I.L.C. 202-72                                                                                 fee                  6/30/79
Central Bank Re-              -      Amounts of sub-  $b19.0 million              -             5% p.a.              Terms of the            -                 No
discount lines                        loans are re-                                                                  subloans
(using USAID funds)                  financed
Interamerican Deve-       2/30/73    US$1.5 million  US$1.3 million           US$0.2 million  4% p.a., plus 0.5%   60 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.            Yes
lopment Bank                                                                                   commitment fee        inst. from
330-SP-BO                                                                                                            8/20/83
International             1/18/74    US$5.0 million   US$0.6 million          US$4.4 million  8% p.a.                20 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.         Yes
Development                                                                                                          inst. from
Association (IDA)                                                                                                    1/18/84
Interamerican             9/4/75     US$6.0 million   US$0.6 million          US$5.4 million  6% p.a., plus 0.5%   40 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.           Yes
Development Bank                                                                               commitment fee        inst. from
3/6/81                                          03
Interamerican             9/4/75     SP 2.4 milliop          _                SF 2.4 million  6% p.a., plus 0.5%   40 half-yearly    Bolivian Govt.           Yes
Dnterelmencank            9scommitment fee                                                                           inst. from S
3/6/81
LCPDF
May 1976



- 5o -
Table 4-14
B O L I V I A
BMWC0 INDUSTRIAL MINING AND MMDUITRIAL CRZDIT P9DJECT
Projected Operations
(in $b million)
ACTUAL                                    P R O J E C T E D
1975            1976            1977            1978            1979            1980
APPROVALS
Industry                            161.7           186.2           210.5           235.6           261.6           287.7
Mining                               54.2            62.1            70.1            78.6            87.2             95.9
Total                        215.9           248.3           280.6           314.2           348.8           383.6
CONMITMENTS
Industry                            138.7           176.4           200.7           225.5           250.9           276.8
Mining                               46.4            66.8            66.9            75.2            83.6             92.9
Total                        185.1           243.2           267.6           300.7           334.5           369.7
DISBURSEMENTS
Industry                            104.6 3/        122.3           198.6           225.6           241.0           266.8
Mining                               17.0 3/         62.8            70.2            75.2            80.3             89.0
Total                        121.6           185.1           268.8           300.8           321.3           355.8
-~a               __               =en               n=s== = ,=  . .= =n
Assumptions: a) Compounded annual average increase in approvals from 1975-1980:12% p.a.
b)  60% of approvals are committed in the same year, 40% the following year, from 1976 onwards.
c) Commitments are disbursed according to the following:
i) 1976 commitments - 50% disbursed the same year, 50% the following year;
ii)  1977 commitments - 55% disbursed the same year, 45% the following year;
iii) 1978 up to 1980 - 60% disbursed the same year, 40% the following year.
d) At a constant exchange rate of $b20 = US$1.00
1/ Including short-term operations utilizing foreign commercial bank credit and bonds, and equity investments.
2/ Net of cancellations.
3/ Estimated breakdown.
LCPDF
May 1976



abl. 4-15
BOQL Iv I A
xUh0 INDUTRIXAL muIRI  AIW INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJCT
Proiected Balsoe. Sheets as of December 31
(in gb million)
ACTUAL                                  P ROJ EC T ED
1975           1976           1977            1978           1979_          1980
hSS3M
Cah and banks                                                  6.7            7.3            12.8            8.0           13.0            11.4
Miscellaneous receivables                                     13.8           15.2            23.5           23.5           25.0            26.6
Current portion of loans outstanding                          70.2          100.7           142.6          179.2          723.8           267.2
Total Current Assets                                   90.7          123.2          178,9           210.7          261.B           305.2
Loans outstanding                                            186.5 71       307.8           476.9          637.4           782.8          919.2
Equity and other investnts (nt)                                2.7            3.2             4.9            6.8            8.7            11.1
less portfolio provieions  7t                              (2.7)1/       (10.5)2/        (16.1.         (21.11         (26.0)          (30.3)
Total portfolio                                              186.5          300.5          465.7           623.1          765.5           900.0
lees  current portion                                     (70.2)        (100.7)         (142.6)        (179.2)        (223.8)         (267.2)
Fixed nd other assets (net)                                    3.8            5.0             6.0            6.0            7.0             7.0
Total Assets                                          210.9          328.0          508.0           660.6           810.5          945.0
LUAILITIES AND IOUl
Accounts payable and other current ltabilities                 6.2            8.2             9.5           15.9            15.0           17.0
Foraign bank lines of credit                                  24.2  I        36.8           33.2            26.1           26.4            26.9
Current portion of term debt (excluding bonds)                11.3           11.5            12.4           21.7           43.9            70.6
Bonds (current portion)                                        --             --              --            15.0           25.0            25.0
Tesa                                                           2.1            4.8             7.3            9.3           11.8            12,4
Total Currsnt Liabilities                              43.8           61.3           62.4            88.0          122.1          151.9
oads                                                           --             --            15.0            25.0           25.0           30.0
178AID                                                        33.3           28,7            24.2           20.3           16.2            12.1
1D0                                                           48.8           87.6          156.9           175.0          173.3           171.6
Kew                                                           21.4           33.9           39.9            3909           38.2            36.5
Contral Benk                                                  19.0           15.9            18.6           24.4           21.3            14.2
IDA                                                           12.6           53.4           91.7           100.0          100.0           100.0
I2ID - Proposed Loan                                           --             --            26.0            99.4          175.5           177.0
Nw Loans                                                       --             --              --             8.0           56.0           175.5
Msdim- and Long-Torm Debt                             135.1          219.5          372.3           492.0          605.5           716.9
leus current portion                                (11.3)         (11.5)         (12.4)          (21.5)         (43.6)         (70.4)
Other Liabilities                                              1.4            2.5            4.2             6.4            7.1            10.0
AID Loan (quasi-equity)                                        3.6            3.6             3.6            3.4            3.1             Z.9
Paid-in share capital                                         31.6           47.1           62.6            69.7           86.3            99.4
lesal reserve                                                  1.8            2.9            4.6             6.8            9 5            12 4
Reserves fer AID loan                                          1.5            2.6            3.6             3.6            3.4"/          3.1'/
Cutrr nt "oniss '/                                             -3.41/         2-  /          7.1            12.2           17.1            18.8
Total Equity                                           38.3           52.6           77.9            92.3          116.3           133.7
Total Liabilities and squity                          210.9          328.0          508.0          660.6           810.5           945.0
Contingent Liabilities
L/Co opd vith forein  banks                                17.1           24.1           26.8           30.0            33.5            37.0
Bills endoned                                              28.3           28.9           32.1           36.1            40.2            44.4
Currt ratio                                                    2.1            2.0             2.9           2.4             2.1             2.0
Dobet/quity (per loan Agamnt  d excluding bonds)               4.9            5.5            5.7            5.8             5.7             5.8
Dbt/equity (specific to bond1)                                 *-             ..             0.2            0.4             0.4             0.4
loss provisions as S oi total portfolio /   5/ 1,/             1.2            2.9            3.0            3.0
Reserves,provisions Ml retained earning. ta 13
of total portfolio '/                                       4.0            4 4            5 8            6.2             6 5             6 4
toreantage inreaose in total portfolio if                     56,0           55.2           47.2           32.6            21.8            16.9
Pccentaes inrease in assets                                   54.0           55.5           54.9           30.0            22.7            16.6
I; 6b842,000 traniferred fton currnt  earnings to reeerve for portfolio Losoue  during shareholders meting.
/ Rtained eanings estimated at b5,0 million at year-end we  transferred to the provision for portfolio losses to provide an adequate level
of portfolio protection.
Includes pradu. on the-sale of shire capital during the yeer.but excludee appropriations for legl reserve and AID loan.
Vb200,000 and tb300,000 for 1979 and 1980 respectively, transferred to share capital.
Total portfolio includee L/Ce and bills endorsed.
/stimate.
2/ Includes an estimted  b24.2 million in loans utilising forsin bank linues.
During negotiation, it  eo egred that 318A would inorenao ite portfolio rsesrves gm&sVty to rseth 3d of total
portfolio by 1960.
1hy' 1976



Table 4-16
B _ L I V I A
bANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING ANID INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Sources and Applications of Funds for Periods Ending December 31
(in $b million)
ACTUAL                                   P R O J E C T E D
1975            1976            1977            1978            1979            1980
SOURCES
Net profit                                                        3.2             5.5             7.1            13.5            16.5             20.2
Depreciation                                                      0.2             0.3             0.4             0.4             0.5             0.6
Write-off of portfolio losses                                     0.9             1.3             1.8             2.9             4.1              5.3
Provision for portfolio losses                                    0.8             3.0             5.6             5.0             4.9              4.3
Other non-cash charges                                            0.2                                               -               -               -
Cash Generated by Operations                                  5.3            10.1            14.9            21.8            26.0            30.4
Miscellaneous liabilities                                         5.2             5.8             5.5            10.6              2.3             5.5
Draw-down of borrowings (regular lines)                          57.2            95.8           149.3           122.1           135.0           150.0
Foreign bank credit and bond placement                           31.2            36.8            48.2            51.1            51.4            56.9
New paid-in share capital (par)                                   5 7            13.8            15 5             3 1              9 8             3 5
Premium on paid-in share capital                                 142/            1.5             2.7             0.9             3.3              1.5
Loan recoveries (regular lines)                                  37.5            37.8            59.4            94.8           123.8           160.3
Loan recoveries (foreign bank lines and bonds)                   20.0            24.2            36.8            40.7            46.1            51.4
TOTAL                                  163.5           225.8           332.3            345.1           397.7           459.5
APPLICATIONS
Loan disbursements (regular lines)                               90.4           147.7           218.8           247.7           267.9           296.4
Loan disbursements (foreign bank lines and bonds)                31.2            36.8            48.2            51.1            51.4            56.9
Cash dividends paid                                                -              1.7              -              3.1             5.6              7.8
Miscellaneous receivables                                         6.9             1.4             8.3              -               1.5             1.6
Fixed assets                                                      0.9             1.5             1.4             0.4             1.5             0.6
Repayment of borrowings (regular lines)                          10.4            11.3            11.5            12.4            21.7            43.9
Repayment of borrowings (foreign bank lines and bonds)           20.0            24.2            36.8            33.2            41.1            51.4
Investments                                                       0.6             0.6             1.8             2.0             2.0             2.5
TOTAL                                  160.4           225.2           326.8           349.9            392.7           461.1
Cash at the beginning of period                                   3.5             6.7             7.3            12.8             8.0            13.0
Change in cash                                                    3.2             0.6             5.5            (4.8)            5.0            (1.6)
Cash at the end of period                                         6.7             7.3            12.8             8.0            13.0            11.4
RATIOS
Debt-service coverage _/                                          1.9             1.9             2.0             2.7             2.5             2.1
V/ On principal and interest payments, asssming a 30% tax rate plus a 10% mandatory contribution to the employee's fund.
2/ Estimate.
LCPDF
May 1976



53                                                       Table 4-17
B OL I V I A
bUCO INDUSTRIAL MNING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Prolected Profit end Loss Statements for Periods Endinat December 31
(in $b million)
ACTUAT,                                   P R O J E C T E D
1975            1976            1977             1978            1979             19BO
INCONE
Interest on loans                                                 14.9             23.9            40.7             61.5            80.4             96.9
Comsmissions                                                        7.6            11.2            12.1             13.2            14.4             15.9
Others                                                              1.2             1.4              1.6             1.9              2.0             2.2
Total Income 1/                                            23.7            36.5             54.4            76.6             96.8           115.0
EXPENSES
Financial expenses                                                  7.3            11.0            20.0             31.3            42.8             54.5
Gross Spread                                               16.4            25.5             34.4            45.3             54.0            60.5
Salaries and personnel expenses                                     4.3             5.0             5.5              6.5             7.4              8.1
Other administrative expanses                                       2.8             3.1             3.4              3.7             4.1              4.5
Contributions                                                       0.3             0.3             0.4              0.5             0.6              0.7
Depreciation                                                        0.2             0.3             0.4              0.4             0.5              0.6
Write-off of portfolio losses                                       0.9             1.3              1.8             2.9             4.1              5.3
other                                                               1.1             1.1             1.2              1.3             1.4              1.5
Total Non-Financial Expenses                                9.6            11.1             12.7            15.3             18.1            20.7
Profit Before Taxes                                         6.9            14.4             21.7            30.0            35.9             39.8
Provision for taxes (30%) 2/                                        2 3             4 8              7 3             9 3            11 8             12 4
Contribution to employees fund (10% of PAT)V                        0.6             1,1             1.7              2.2             2.7              2.9
Provision for portfolio losses 3/ & 5/                             0.8              3.0             5.6              5.0             4,9              4.3
Net Profit                                                  3.2             5.5              7.1            13.5             16.5            20.2
AP'PROPRILATIONS
Tegal reserve (10% of PAT) 2/                                      0.6              1.1             1.7              2.2             2.7              2.9
Reserve for AID Loan (10% of PAT) 2/                               0.6              1.1             1 0               -               -                -
Cash dividends                                                      1.7              - $4           3:1              5 6             7 8              9 4
Stock dividends 4/                                                 0.3               -              1.3              5.7             6.0              7.9
Additional appropriation for portfolio provisions                    -              3.3              -                -               -               -_
RATIOS
Total income as % of average total assets (ATA)                    13.6            13.5            13.0             13.1            13.2             13.1
Financial expenses as % of ATA                                      4.2             4.1             4.8              5.4             5.8              6.2
Gross spread as % of ATA                                            9.4             9.4             8.2              7.8             7.3              6.9
Administrative expenses as % of ATA                                 4.1             3.0              2.1             1.7              1.6             1.4
Other expenses (intl. taxes, provisions and                         3.5             4.4             4.4              3.7             3.5              3.2
contribution to employees fund) as % of ATA
Net profit as % of ATA                                              1.8             2.0              1.7             2.3             2.2              2.3
Net profit as % of average equity                                   9.7            12.1             10.9            15.8             15.8            16.2
Cash dividend pay-out ratio (%)                                   53.1               -             43.7             41.5            47.3            46.5
Cash dividend as % of year-end share capital                       5.4               -              5.0              8.0             9.0              9.5
Stock dividends as % of year-end share capital
(w/o premiumeon sale of stock)                                0.9              -               2.1             8.2             6.9              7.9
Stock dividends as % of year-end share capital
(w/ preisiums)                                                5.4              -              6.4              9.5            10.8              9.4
1/  Excludes prenium on the sale of share capital, which BISA includes in income in
accordance with Government regulations. Premiums are shown below in $b million:
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
1.4        1.5        2.7        0.9       3.3        1.5
/  These percentages apply to profit including premiums on sale of shares; PAT is profit after taxes.
3/ BISA reports this as an appropriation of income.
4/  Stock dividends including premims frs the sale of shares would be as follows in $b  illion
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
1.7         -        4.0        6.6        9.3        9.4
/ During negotiatimns, it was agreed that MSA would inorease its portfolio provisions gradually to reach 3'l
of total portfolio by 1980. This would permit BISA to declare dividends out of 1976 earnings.
LCPDF
may 1976



- 54 -
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN AND IFC INVESTMENT
A.   Previous Operations
5.01      rhe proposed project, consisting of a Bank loan and an IFC invest-
ment, would represent the second Bank Group financing of BISA, following the
latter's partlcipation in the US$6.2 million Mining Credit of IDA in 1974,
which is still being disbursed. The IDA Credit consisted of three components,
the principal one being a US$5.0 million credit for BISA to help finance the
expansion and modernization of medium-size mines. As of January 30, 1976,
BISA had approved US$3.2 million and committed US$2.1 million of this credit
component, with full commitment expected by about September 1976. Based on
BISA's present project pipeline, this component is expected to finance a total
of 12 subprojects, involving total investments of US$19 million. 1/ All the
subprojects approved so far, with only one exception, involve expansion and
modernization of already existing operations.
5.02      While this component of the IDA credit has not yet been fully com-
mitted, it is now possible, on the basis of preliminary results, to obtain a
tentative estimate of its impact on the Bolivian economy. Based on an evalua-
tion of the six subprojects approved thus far and BISA's present project pipe-
line, the combined economic rate of return for the investments undertaken is
expected to be high, about 40%. This Is partly due to the nature of sub-
projects under this line of credit--expansion and modernization of already
existing operations--which tend to have higher rates of return compared to
completely new operations. To a certain extent, however, it may also be an
indication of the dearth of financing compared to investment opportunities
in the private mining sector.
5.03      Of the 12 subprojects expected to be financed, less than half,
representlng less than 40% of the credit, would involve tin as the principal
mineral produced. This is satisfactory, considering that tin accounted for
close to 60% of Bolivian mining output value in 1974. The rest of the sub-
projects would produce several other minerals including antimony, tungsten
and zinc, which have relatively good market prospects. The subprojects
financed by IDA would have a considerable balance of payments contribution,
estimated at a total amount of US$130 million up to 1985, net of the foreign
exchange costs of investments and current inputs. Contribution to government
revenue in the form of taxes and royalties is estimated at about US$65 million
total from inception up to 1985. Over the same period, the combined invest-
ments would generate nearly 6% of total mining output. Direct employment
creation, estimated at 1,070 jobs, would be minor, due to the need for rela-
tively capital-intensive production methods. The health and safety conditions
in the mines would improve as a consequence of investments for expansion and
modernization. Some improvement would also be expected in the standard of
1/   About US$10 million of this would be for a big zinc project.



- 55 -
living of mine workers, as a result of associated Investments in on-site
housing and infrastructure facilities.
5.04      The other components of the IDA Credit, namely a survey of small
mines and technical assistance to the Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy (MMM),
have been completed and are now being implemented. The inventory of small
mines may lead to a proposed Bank project for the financing of small mining
enterprises through the Banco Minero. The mining tax study is expected to lead
eventually to a rationalizaton of mining taxation towards a profit-based
system to replace the present production-based one (para. 1.17). Implementa-
tion of the documentation center for MMM is proceeding satisfactorily and
would lead to the establishment of a more efficient information storage and
retrieval system, in addition to an improved technical library. Using as
basis the IDA-financed study of a mineral exploration fund, the Bolivian
Government may approach the Bank soon regarding possible participation in
this prospective project.
B.   The Proposed Bank Loan
1.   General Description
5.05      The proposed loan of US$10 million would be utilized to finance the
foreign exchange component of projects in the private mining and industrial
sectors. Based on BISA's tentative pipeline of projects and its available
resources, about 70% of the loan would be utilized for mining, and the rest
for industrial subprojects. Included in industrial subprojects are subloans
to small enterprises, which are expected to utilize up to 10% of the proposed
loan. As requested, the loan would be made to the Government of Bolivia at the
current Bank interest rate (now 8.85% p.a.) and commitment fee on the undis-
bursed balance (now 3/4% p. a.), to be on-lent to BISA on the same terms and
conditions but denominated in US dollars. The Government would take the
exchange risk between the dollar and the currencies disbursed by the Bank for
a nominal fee (e.g., 1/4%), to be passed on to subborrowers. The proposed
loan is expected to be fully committed by December 31, 1978 and fully dis-
bursed by December 31, 1980 (Table 5-1). Following standard DFC practice, the
amortization of the loan would conform to tbe aggregate of the amortization
schedules of individual subloans.
2.   Subloan Terms
5.06      Subloans would be for up to 15 years including a reasonable grace
period not to exceed three years. The maximum amount of individual subproject
financing would be governed by BISA's exposure limit, which is defined in
BISA's policy statement (para. 4.12). Subloans would be denominated in US
dollars. BISA would relend Bank funds at the highest legal interest rate on
foreign official funds (now 12% p.a.), plus a commitment fee (now 1% p.  ) on
the undisbursed balance, a closing fee (2-3% one-time charge), and a fee to
the Government to cover the exchange risk. Subloans to small enterprises
would also Include a 3% p.a. guarantee fee to the commercial banks when
channeled through them. At the current Bank interest rate of 8.85% p.a.,



- 56 -
TABLE 5-1
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
for the Proposed Loan
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                                at end of Quarter
(US$'000)
FY1977
September 30, 1976
December 31, 1976                                                -
March 31, 1977                                                 100
June 30, 1977                                                  300
FY1978
September 30, 1977                                             700
December 31, 1977                                           1,300
March 31, 1978                                              2,000
June 30, 1978                                               2,900
FY1979
September 30, 1978                                          3,900
December 31, 1978                                           5,000
March 31, 1979                                              6,200
June 30, 1979                                                7,400
FY1980
September 30, 1979                                          8,400
December 31, 1979                                            9,100
March 31, 1980                                               9,500
June 30, 1980                                                9,800
FY1981
September 30, 1980                                           9,900
December 31, 1980                                           10,000
LCPDF
May 1976



- 57 -
BISA would have a spread of 3.15% p.a. on all types of subloans, which Is
barely adequate at the present time. BISA is discussing a possible increase
in the relending rate with the Government.
3.   Approval Limits
5.07      The limit for subloans not requiring prior Bank approval would be
raised from US$250,000 under the IDA Credit to US$600,000 for mining subloans
and US$300,000 for industrial subloans, in recognition of improvements in
BISA's capability to evaluate projects.  In addition, the first two industrial
subprojects requiring Bank financing of over US$30,000 1/ would require prior
approval.  The dual approval limits above would result in the review of a
representative sample (at least 40% of loan amount) covering both mining sub-
projects (averaging about US$500,000) and industrial subprojects (averaging
about US$200,000). A sample of small enterprise subprojects would also be
reviewed on a post-approval basis in Washington and by missions in the field.
4.   Procurement and Disbursement
5.08      Procurement for regular subprojects (i.e., non-small enterprise
subprojects) would be in accordance with standard practice for DFC projects
used by BISA under the IDA Credit. The nature of small enterprise subprojects
often makes it difficult to obtain quotations from several suppliers, and
therefore this would not be required of these enterprises. However, BISA
would assure itself that goods and services procured are reasonably priced
(para. 4.17). Disbursements for expenditures financed by subloans would be
made directly to BISA with notification to the Central Bank, as the Govern-
ment's agent. Such disbursements would cover the full foreign exchange cost
of direct imports, 35% of construction costs, and 60% of imported machinery
and equipment purchased locally, both representing their estimated foreign
exchange component. Foreign equipment suppliers are fairly well represented
In Bolivia. Unless otherwise agreed, any funds remaining uncommitted at the
end of the commitment period would be cancelled.
C.   The Proposed IFC Investment
5.09      The proposed IFC investment of up .o $b 11 million (US$550,000
equivalent) would consist of a subscription to 100,000 common shares of BISA
of par value $b 100 each, at a price of $b 110 per share. It would be paid
in over the period 1976 to 1978 and would be matched on a parl passu basis by
payments from other sources of at least double this amount. The proposed
investment would make IFC an important shareholder in BISA with about 15% of
share capital by 1978. IFC's first payment under the subscription agreement
is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
1/   The upper limit under BISA's small-scale industrial enterprise credit.



- 58 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   General
6.01      The proposed project would contribute both directly and indirectly
to fill a major gap in the financing of private mining and industrial enter-
prises, includlng small-scale industrial firms. Aside from providing term
flnancing, the proposed project would contribute to the further development
of BISA as the principal lending institution to the private sector. It would
also incorporate some features designed to help develop the Bolivian capital
market by supporting BISA's efforts to mobilize domestic resources through
bond Issues. These are estimated to reach US$2 million by 1978, which,
although relatively minor, could break the ground for larger issues in the
future to help meet the worklng capital needs of Bolivian industry.
B.   The Proposed Bank Loan
6.02      Based on an analysls of the subprojects under consideration, mining
subprojects to be financed under the loan are expected to be similar to those
being financed by the IDA Credit, i.e., subprojects for expansion and moderni-
zation. The aggregate ERR for these subprojects is expected to be in excess
of 40%. Projections indicate substantial contributions 1/ to Bolivia's foreign
exchange earnings of about US$115 million (net of import requirements) and to
government revenues of nearly US$50 million, cumulatively from inception up
to 1985. Production increases are expected to account for some 20% of medium-
mining output and 5% of the cumulative mining output of Bolivia over the
same period. Direct employment created would be relatively minor, about 650
jobs. Some improvement could be expected in health and safety conditions as
a consequence of expansion and modernization of the mines, and in the standard
of living of mine workers as a result of associated investments in on-site
housing and Infrastructure facilities.
6.03      Due to the variety of industrial subprojects, it is not possible
ex ante to estimate the ERR for this part of the loan. BISA assures itself,
however, of the economic viability of subprojects (para. 4.07) and does not
normally finance projects with an ERR of less than 12%. A review of the
evaluations of ten previously approved industrial subprojects showed an average
economic rate of return of 22%, which is satisfactory. The industrial sector
review undertaken In connection with the appraisal of this project also con-
cluded that Bolivian industry on the whole is only moderately protected, and
appears to have been developing along the lines of comparative advantage
(para. 2.02). In addition, It shows that potential still exists for effi-
cient Import substitution projects, such as those BISA normally finances.
The employment potential of industrial subprojects is difficult to quantify,
1/   Assuming that 70% of the loan would be utilized for mining.



- 59 -
but is expected to exceed that of mining subprojects. This should be parti-
cularlv true of the small enterprise credit. A sample of 12 firms of this
type (which previously received BISA financing) showed a favorable ratio of
US$3,500 assets/job on the average, an indication of their considerable
employment potential. The part of the loan for small enterprises should be
regarded as a pilot operation, which would help provide the Bank with informa-
tion and experience to lay the basis for a possible larger involvement at
a later date.
C. The Proposed IFC Investment
6.04      IFC's potential impact on BISA and on the development of the Bolivian
private sector would be particularly significant at this point in time. The
proposed IFC investment would permit BISA to raise the equity resources needed
to implement its program of rapid growth and development while maintaining a
sound financial structure, thus facilitating the reduction in the future of
BISA's current dependence on concessionary financing. In proceeding with the
proposed investment, the Corporation would be indirectly assisting numerous
mining and industrial ventures which, mainly due to size, it would not be
able to invest in directly. It would also have the opportunity to help
strengthen BISA's capabilities during a period of rapid growth.
6.05      The proposed investment could constitute the basis for a mutually
beneficial long-term relationship. BISA could be utilized as an important
investment "window" in Bolivia, an arrangement which could provide the Cor-
poration with more opportunities to participate directly in the development
of the Bolivian private sector. The investment is estimated to have a rate
of return exceeding 10% in current dollars, which is acceptable. The Bolivian
Government views the proposed IFC investment favorably.



- 60 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   Agreements Reached
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  With the Government, regarding on-lending terms for the
proposed loan, including its assumption of the exchange
risk between the US dollar and the currencies disbursed
by the Bank (para. 5.05 and 5.08).
(b) With BISA regarding:
(i) adoption of a satisfactory policy statement, which
includes, inter alia, a satisfactory exposure
limitation to any single client and acceptable
profitability and dividend policies (para. 4.12);
(iI) adoption, in principle, of an acceptable strategy
paper which Includes operational targets for the next
few years, and BISA's intention to give special
attention to subprojects producing metals other than
tin and to evaluate carefully subprojects producing
tin or goods whose importation is prohibited (para.
4.13);
(iii) improvements in procedures regarding subloans for
small enterprises (para. 4.17);
(iv) revised debt/equity limitations (para. 4.20); and
(v) on-lending terms and conditions of the proposed loan
(paras. 5.05 to 5.08).
7.02      An understanding was reached with BISA regarding:
(a)  more flexible implementation of collateral requirements
(para. 4.08); and
(b)  increasing portfolio loss reserves to acceptable levels
(para. 4.26).
7.03      During negotiations BISA presented a satisfactory share subscription
plan (para. 4.31) and agreed to undertake a study to determine the feasibility
of selling debt securities of at least one-year term in the domestic market
and to use its best efforts to carry out a program for the sale of such
securities (para. 4.29).



- 61 -
7.04      A special condltion of loan effectiveness would be IFC's flrst
payment under its subscription agreement (para. 5.09).
B.   Recommendations
7.05      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$10.0 million to the Bolivian Government for on-lending to BISA, and
an IFC investment of up to $b 11 million (US$550,000 equivalent) in BISA's
share capital, as outlined in Chapter V.



- 62 -
ANNEX I
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES 1/
(Approved on March 4, 1976)
The Board of Directors of Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA), bearing
in mind the need to systematize its operating guidelines, resolves to
adopt the following general policy on operations and procedures:
1.   OBJECTIVES OF BANCO INDUSTRIAL S.A.
Banco Industrial S.A. will foster the establishment, expansion,
modernization and/or diversification of private sector enterprises en-
gaged in productive activities, with a view to contributing to the econo-
mic and social development of the country.
2.   GENERAL POLICY:
i.   BISA will promote private investment in Bolivia and
cooperate with other financial institutions in exe-
cuting economically and technically feasible projects
that will contribute to the achievement of the goals
and objectives of national development plans.
ii.   BISA will provide its financial and technical assis-
tance primarily to the following sectors: industry,
agro-industry, livestock, mining, tourism, trans-
portation, commercial construction, communications,
and production-related services.
ili.   BISA will promote the exports of manufactured products,
intermediate goods, raw materials and other articles
produced in Bolivia. It will likewise promote the
selective production of articles that will efficiently
substitute for imports.
iv.   BISA will encourage the establishment of private pro-
ductive enterprises and will assist domestic and/or
foreign Investment through direct participation, in
order to create new employment opportunities and raise
the standard of living of the population.
1/   Reflects the changes agreed upon during negotiations.



- b3 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
v.   BISA will encourage the development of small-scale
industry and crafts.
vi.   BISA will participate in the financing of new projects
and expansion of existing operations, in the form of
medium- and long-term loans, guarantees, purchase of
shares, and issuance of securities or bonds of any kind.
vii.   BISA will provide assistance to productive activities
in the technical, financial, legal and administrative
fields.
viii.   BISA will act as a financial intermediary in obtaining
resources from other credit sources, both in Bolivia
and abroad.
ix.   BISA will contribute to the development of the Bolivian
capital market through the issuance of debt securities,
by underwriting bond or share issues, and by cooperating
with other financial institutions.
x.   BISA will accept funds in trust for the execution of
credit programs for the economic and social development
of the country.
xi.   Since Banco Industrial S.A. is a specialized financing
institution, it will not transact operations typical of
commercial banks. Therefore it will not undertake
short-term operations, nor gccept demand or time deposits,
nor discount bills; in general, it will not transact any
of the operations that characterize commercial banks.
3.   PROJECT SELECTION AND APPRAISAL CRITERIA
The fundamental policy of BISA is to give priority to projects
that would make a reasonable contribution to the economJc and social devel-
opment of the country. For these purposes, the following general criteria
would be taken into account:
i.   The level of their production costs make it possible to
increase and promote exports and generate foreign ex-
change for the country.
ii.   They selectively substitute imports with efficiently
produced and competitively priced products.



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
iiI.   They are covered by industrial promotion and/or comple-
mentation agreements, in particular those of the ex-
panded market of the Andean Group and of LAFTA.
iv. They would result in increased productivity of exist-
ing operations, thereby leading to exports within a
short period of time.
v.   They make use of local inputs.
vi.   They demonstrate adequate managerial capacity.
vii.   They are sponsored by firms whose equity capital is
widely held, in order that BISA may contribute to
the broadening of industrial ownership, and in
facilitating the establishment of a securities
market in the country.
viii.   Aside from being technically and financially feasi-
ble, they should have an economic rate of return of
not less than 12%.
4.   CREDIT POLICY:
In the conduct of BISA operations the following procedures
will be used:
i.   In order to minimize risks in its financing activities,
BISA will not commit to any single enterprise or an enter-
prise and any of its subsidiaries and related firms in the
form of loans, investments, and/or guarantees the equivalent
of more than 35% of Its own equity up to an equity amount of
$b 40 million, up to 20% of the part of equity above $b 40
million and up to $b 60 million, and up to 15% of the part
of equity above $b 60 million and up to $b 90 million. Once
equity exceeds $b 90 million, this percentage will be fixed
at 25%.
ii.   The maximum percentage of project cost to be
financed by BISA will be as follows:
a)   Up to 80% of project cost for enterprises
with capital not exceeding US$50,000;
b)   Up to 70% of project cost for enterprises
with capital of more than US$50,000 but
less than US$100,000;



- 65-                        ANNEXI
Page 4
c)   Up to 60% of project cost for enterprises
with capital of US$100,000 or above.
In all cases the contributions of the beneficiaries
must be made in cash or in goods directly related
to the project.
iii.   The minimum repayment period for loans will be one
year and the maximum 15 years; the usual repayment
period will be 1-2 years for working capital loans
and 5-8 years for loans for fixed assets which may
include associated working capital. These periods
may include a grace period for the repayment of
principal, which in no case may exceed three years,
taking into consideration the time required for the
project to begin generating income.
iv.   Loan guarantees required will preferably be real
guarantees, which include: mortgages on real es-
tate and mining property, liens on machinery and
equipment, bank guarantees, insurance policies to
cover the payment. In exceptional cases persodal
guarantees may partially cover loan operations.
v.   BISA financing will be used primarily for the
following purposes:
a)   Procurement and/or installation of machinery
and equipment;
b)   Construction, remodeling and/or expansion
of plants and mills, installation of services
and commercial construction;
c)   Financing of working capital Ln order to in-
crease levels of production;
d)   Contracting of technical assistance, feasi-
bility and organizational studies, market
studies, and training of managerial and
other personnel for such purposes as the
Bank deems necessary.
vi.   In accordance with its policy of promoting the devel-
opment of small-scale industry and crafts, BISA will
earmark up to 10% of its resources for loans to this
sector, which may be channeled directly or through
associated commercial banks.



- 66-                        ANNEX-
Page 5
vii.   With a view to achieving greater regional diversifica-
tion of Its operations, it will promote the establish-
ment of new productive units through its branches and
representative offices located in various parts of the
country.
viii.   BISA will aim to achieve a balanced regional dis-
tribution of its portfolio and Investments in the
sectors of economic activity covered by its
objectives in accordance with the need for
balanced national development.
5.   INVESTMENT POLICY:
1.   BISA will foster the establishment of new enterprises
in the productive sector and/or the expansion of exist-
ing enterprises, and will increase its equity investment
by underwriting the shares of priority and selected
enterprises that demonstrate the necessary track record
and/or know-how.
ii.   The aggregate amount of BISA's equity investment will not
exceed the total amount of its own equity capital.
iii.   BISA will not assume managerial responsibility in the
enterprises in which it participates.
6.   FINANCIAL POLICY:
BISA will take necessary steps to protect itself against the risk of
losses arlsing from fluctuations in the exchange rates of the currencies used
in its operations. To this end it will shift the exchange risk to the borrow-
ers or other institutions and where necessary, will set up reserves for
adjusting the effects of those fluctuations such that its equity capital will
not be impaired under any circumstance.
BISA will take the most appropriate steps to secure a reasonable
rate of return on its equity through efficient operations and by charging
such interest rates, commissions, and other fees as it deems necessary and
which are consistent with government regulations. It will pursue a dividend
policy which will assure that the shareholders receive a satisfactory return
on their investments, having due regard for the liquidity and sound financial
position of the Company. Such dividend policy is desirable toward the end of
attracting addltional shareholders to invest in BISA.



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
In the administratlon of Its financial operations BISA will
take the following precautions:
(a) It will maintain an appropriate balance between the
service of its llabilities and the terms of the loans
it grants.
(b) It will not contract liabilities (excludlng local bond
resources but including contingent liabilities) in excess
of 6 times its equity capital and reserves. It will not
contract more than the amount of Its equity in local bond
resources.
(c) It will obtain good and sufficient guarantees to
adequately cover the amount of the loans it grants.
(d) It will set up approprlate reserves for possible
delinquent loans, accordlng to the size of its
portfolio and generally accepted accounting practices.
It will make every effort to increase Its equity capital through the mobili-
zation of internal and external resources.
7.   SUPERVISION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE POLICY:
i.   BISA will supervise its loan and investments during the
period of execution and operation of the projects and
will make ex-post economic evaluations.
ii.   For the purpose of supervising the conduct and operation
of a project it will require the borrowing firms to main-
tain adequate accounting systems and will reserve for
itself the right to inspect their operations and accounts
and to require submission of information necessary to
determine the financial and operational conditions under
which a project is belng conducted.
iii.   BISA will require the submission of annual financial
statements from all borrowing enterprises which have
received loans exceeding US$30,000, which in the case
of enterprlses having recelved loans exceeding USS100,000
should be certified by an external auditor.
Iv.   When the circumstances so require, BISA will make the
granting of a loan conditlonal upon the contracting of
technical and administrative assistance necessary for the
proper execution of the project. As far as possible, BISA
will assist In arranging such assistance.



- 68-                        ANNEX I
Page 7
8.   ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY:
1.   BISA will endeavor to develop and retain a minimum but
sufficient number of qualified personnel with the exper-
tise necessary to undertake and perform their functions
adequately. It will also accept external assistance to
increase the capacity of its professional staff in the
areas of project evaluation and administrative methods.
ii.   It will adopt adequate salary scales to ensure the
efficient performance of its staff, to enable it to
achieve its objectives.
ill.   The operating costs of BISA will be reviewed annually to
determine the minimum level consistent with efficient
operations.
iv.   The administrative accounting systems will be updated
on a continuing basis, with methods and systems adopted
In line with the changes and progress made in banking.
v.   BISA will contract the services of an independent firm
of auditors of recognized international standing to audit
its annual flnancial statements.



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
STRATEGY FOR THE CONDUCT OF BISA'S ACTIVITIES
I.   Areas of Emphasis
1.        At present there are no financial institutions in Bolivia with
sufficient economic strength and capacity for multisectoral financing. Con-
sequently it is incumbent upon BISA, as the principal private financial in-
stitution, to play a key role in the economic and social development of the
country. In view of this situatlon, and In order to contrLbute more effi-
clently to the country's development, BISA has adopted a policy of growth,
including geographic and functional expansion. To thls end:
(aj It has undertaken an institutional reorganization, expanding
its area of operations to cover mining, agro-industry,
livestock, tourlsm, communications and services. As
part of this program, In 1974 it opened a branch in the
city of Santa Cruz and a field office in Tarija.
(b) It plans to set up three field offices In the near future
on the basis of existlng ones, with a view to serving the
other regions of the country more efficiently. These con-
sist of:
i.   The eastern branch, covering Santa Cruz, Beni and
Pando, under the authority of the present Santa Cruz
office.
ii.   The southern branch, covering Tarija, Chuquisaca and
Potosi, with headquarters in the city of Tarlja.
For this purpose, the present field office In Tarija
will be appropriately upgraded.
Ili.   The central branch, covering Cochabamba.  For this
purpose, provision has been made for the establish-
ment of a field office in the city of Cochabamba.
2.        As part of Its policy of fostering the development of the .-11-
scale industries and crafts It Is proposed:
(a) To Increase the amount of the credit granted directly and
through associated Bolivian private banks, by means of the
allocation of resources in proportion to the capital of



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
the intermediary bank and its shareholdings in BISA. In
any event, the amount to be allocated and used by the
associated banks will be approximately US$1.5 million.
(b) To establish new lending limits per project, in accordance
with the size of the sponsoring firms as shown below:
-    up to 80% of project cost for enterprises with
capital not exceeding US$50,000;
-    up to 70% of project cost for enterprises with capital
of more than US$50,000 but less than US$100,000;
-    up to 60% of project cost for enterprises with capital
of US$100,000 or more.
(c) Withln the traditional lines of financing, to assist in the
identification or establishment of enterprises that will
efflciently produce goods covered by Bolivlan assignments
in the Andean Market, and other agreements connected with
the process of economic integration, including:
i.   Metalworking
Taking into account the need for integration,
provision is made for the establishment of
plants to produce components for assembly
(Decision 28).
1i.   Automotive program
Tax incentives are available for the establishment
of motor vehicle assembly plants in Bolivla. The
Andean group has assigned to rolivia the manufac-
ture of category B-2 trucks wih gross welght of
4500 to 9500 kilos. Wheeled tractors and earth-
moving equipment are among the items being produced.
As and when levels of national lntegratlon justify
a higher percentage of domestic participation, a
larger local input will be required. In this con-
text the Government has issued the Assembly Regula-
tions under Supreme Decree 13050 of Novebmer 7,
1975, which wi11 permit BISA to flnance the projects
of enterprlses that will manufacture parts and compo-
nents for thls industry.
(d) To promote the establishment of new enterprises in the produc-
tive sector and/or the expansion of existing enterprises by



- 71-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
increasing equity investments or venture capital, and by under-
writing the shares of priority and selected enterprises, in
particular enterprises that demonstrate the necessary track
record and/or know-how.
(e) In order to cope with the accelerated growth of BISA's
operations, a dynamic campaign has been planned to mobi--
lize domestic and foreign resources in the following ways:
i.   By increasing share capital
Provision has been made for all authorized capital to
be subscribed and fully paid in before the end of
the next fiscal year while maintaining the balance
between domestic and foreign capital. Representatives
of DEG of Germany are in the process of negotiating a
possible investment in the equity capital of BISA
of up to US$500,000 equivalent.
Negotiations are also continuing with the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) to obtain an equity invest-
ment by IFC of up to $b 11 million. IFC's commitment
is expected to be obtained in 1976.
Efforts will likewise be made in the coming year to
obtain additional equity investments from the members
of the National Chamber of Industry and of the Associa-
tion of Medium Miners.
It is also planned to hold a Special Shareholders'
Meeting in 1976, for the purpose of proposing an
increase in authorized capital to US$6 million
equivalent.
II.   By Issuing bonds
During the coming fiscal year a study will be made of a
possible bond issue in order to mobilize additional re-
sources.
iiI.   By using lines of credit
BISA plans to use new lines of credit from commercial
banks abroad In order to meet the working capital re-
quirements of the productive sectors. This has been
discussed with several commercial banks which have
expressed their willingness to cooperate with BISA
In this connection.



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
iv.   By acting as a financial intermediary
BISA will continue to assist in obtaining resources
from other lending sources, both internal and ex-
ternal, in order to finance priority projects whose
costs exceed the financing capacity of the Bank.
In this regard arrangements have been made for syndi-
cations with ADELA, CAF and other national institu-
tions such as the Union de Bancos Bolivianos. In
the future this policy will be extended to other
foreign institutions such as the Bank of America,
International Finance Corporation, and First Boston
Corporation.
v.   By obtaining foreign long-term loans
Negotiations will be held with IDB, the World Bank,
and KfW for the purpose of obtaining additional
foreign long-term loans to enable BISA to continue
financing Bolivian private sector projects.
(f) As regards institutional relations, BISA will conduct its
activities in coordination with the Ministries of Planning
and Coordination, Industry and Trade, Mining and Metallurgy,
and Finance, and the Central Bank of Bolivia in the public
sector, and with the National Chamber of Industry and the
Association of Medium Miners in the private sector, in order
to deal with the problems that arise as a result of the
activities of the borrowing enterprises.
(g) With respect to training, the Bank will continue its policy
of sponsoring the participation of its professional staff
in special courses in project administration, analysis, and
evaluation. To this end provision has been made to co-
sponsor training courses with ALIDI, IDB and other institu-
tions specializing in the training of staff for development
banklng institutions.
II.   Activities and Goals
To fulfill the purposes indicated above, BISA plans to underLake
the following specific activities, which summarize its short-and medium-term
goals:



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
(a) In the first half of 1976, continuing the reorganization
begun in the previous year of BISA's regional and sectoral
operations by:
i.   Opening a field office in Cochabamba, which will
handle operations in the central region of the
country.
Ii.   Expanding the jurisdiction of the branch in the
city of Santa Cruz in order to service the depart-
ments of Beni and Pando.
iii.   Authorizing the Tarija field office to promote and
identify projects in the departments of Chuquisaca,
Tarija and Potosi.
(b) About $b 30 million in loans would be allocated to the small-
scale industries and crafts through the end of 1976.
(c) In the next two years, increased efforts will be made to pro-
mote the establishment of new productive units and appropriate
levels of financing will be established for future loan opera-
tions, including equity investments when circumstances so
require.
(d) In 1976, financing operations will be brought in line with
the priorities established in regional economic integration
agreements.
(e) During 1976, the following steps will be taken to mobilize
domestic and foreign resources;
i.   The authorized capital will be increased to US$6 million.
ii.   The sale of shares up to the amount of the present autho-
rized capital will be promoted.
iii.   Increased equity investment by members of the Association
of Medium Miners and the National Chamber of Industry will
be negotiated.
iv.   The issuance of bonds will be studied.
v.   Additional long-term loans will be negotiated with
international development agencies.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
(f) The training of BISA's professional staff will be increased.
Courses in management for the staff of client firms will also
be held in conjunction with universities and national institu-
tions.
(g) BISA will coordinate its efforts to establish a local capital
market with the Union of Bolivian Banks, helping to recruit
the necessary technical personnel.
(h) BISA will carry out studies to identify investment opportu-
nities in the lesser developed regions such as the depart-
ments of Beni, Pando, Chuquisaca and Potosi.
La Paz, January 1976



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Appraisal of a Mining Credit Project (Bolivia) IBRD No. 276a-BO;
December 28, 1973.
2.   The Mining and Metallurgical sector (Bolivia), in four volumes; IBRD
No. PI-14; December 7, 1972.
3.   Financial Sector Report on Bolivia; IFC; May 21, 1975.
4.   Mining Tax Study (Bolivia); Harvard Institute for International
Development.
5.   Investment Law; Instituto Nacional de Inversiones
6.   Boletin Estadistica 1975; Banco Central de Bolivia.
7.   Estadisticas Industriales, 1973 to 1975; Instituto Nacional de Industrias.
8.   Copies of various legislation and decrees affecting BISA's operations.
9.   BISA's statutes, audit reports and annual reports to shareholders.
10. Mining, Industrial and Financial Sector working papers .



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
BOLIVIA
BANCO INDUSTRIAL MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bolivian Laws Applying to Banco Industrial and to the Proposed Investment
Legislation
1.        In addltion to the constitution and general laws of the country such
as the Commercial Code and tax laws, the following basic laws are applicable
to foreign Investments in Bollvia:
(a) Law No. 09798 of June 30, 1971 adopts Decision 24, of the
Acuerdo de Cartagena to which Bolivia became a signatory
In May of 1969.
(b) Supreme Decree No. 11450 permits the establishment of
foreign financial institutions in Bollvia thereby
utilizing the provision of Article 44 of December 24
of the Acuerdo de Cartagena.
(c) The General Law of Banks of July 11, 1928 which estab-
lishes the procedure by which flnancial institutions
are licensed and otherwise regulates the operations
of flnancial Institutions.
Approval and Registration
2.        Foreign investments In financial institutions must receive prior
approval of the Banco Central de Bolivia.
Repatrlation
3.        No restrlction exists In the repatriatlon of dividends, earnings
or princlpal.
Incentives
4.        No specific lncentlves exist for investment in the shares of
financLal institutlons.



2\ ,                                  o b.voIt4 2                             .    -BOLIVIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12'                                                                                          00    ,   Qx  00                  -          000_o z
'p
8            if                         /
~TR N DAD
.~~~~~~~~ Cor:fo-   ' 5\  -""r  t-#n-
...   0     G          )      <                  g        S  N      4               ................................................. . . . . . . . . . . . .......  
/ R~~~~~o                                                    ,          .         ;          /          WRn  
e'                           -                       t          ,                      o          -                      -          -                     -                               i-
U~~~~~~~~~~~~ /Mi -d_
ILl~~~~~~I
G oq ~ ~       ~              ~              ~              ~             ~ ~ AR                                                         
AUGUST 1971                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD  282R G C ;;;    R C   Zone-of  eys  .-
{ crz l ts 0 0 t Frcs< { < 5~~~Sacant Cool-Cocuibt Cra  Piali Iot
AUGUST  1971IBRD28208



