CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1290 BO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Banco Industrial Mining
and Industrial Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 15, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 15, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Aplicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BISA" means Banco Industrial, S.A., a bank established
under Decreto Iey No. 06213, dated September 12, 1962, of the Bor-
rover on industrial banks and operating under the laws of the Bor-
rover.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BISA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BISA pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time


﻿- 3 -
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(d) "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be made to BISA under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by BISA out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to BISA under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as
so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to
the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(f) "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by BISA out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to BISA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(g) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BISA proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it pro-
poses to make or has made an investment.
(h) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(i) "Bolivian Pesos" and "$b" means the currency of the
Borrower,
(j) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-
(k) "Statutes" means the Estatutos of BISA dated December 28,
1973, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(1) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by the Directors of BISA on June 1, 1976
as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(m) "Development Credit Agreement" means agreement No. 455 BO
dated January 18, 1974 between the Borrower and the International
Development Association and related to a Mining Credit Project and
"Prior Loan" means any loan provided for therein.
(n) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or*
effectively controlled by BISA or by any one or more subsidiaries
of BISA or by BISA and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(o) "Corporation" means the International Finance Corporation.
(p) "Share Investment Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Corporation and BISA providing for the
subscription by the Corporation of Class C shares of BISA's capi-
tal, as the same may be amended from time to time.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten mil-
lion dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account to finance the reasonable cost of goods and
services required under a sub-loan or investment for the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested:
(i) for amounts expended by BISA for an Investment
Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for ex-
penditures required to be made by BISA for an
Investment Project, in foreign currency for goods
procured, or services supplied from, outside the
territory of the Borrower;
(ii) the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of amounts
expended for imported machinery and equipment
procured in the territory of the Borrover, which
percentage represents the estimated foreign
currency component of such goods; and
(iii) the equivalent of thirty-five per ceut (35%) of
amounts expended for civil works, which percentage
represents the estimated foreign currency component
of such services;


﻿-6-
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan or investment unless (1) the sub-loan or investment
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (2) the sub-loan shall
be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project (other than for either of the first two Investment
Projects in the industrial sector, exceeding the sum of $30,000
equivalent, presented to the Bank in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2,02 of the Project Agreement) in an amount to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the
sum of (i) $600,000 equivalent with respect to an Investment Proj-
ect in the mining sector, and (ii) $300,000 equivalent with respej)
to an Investment Project in the industrial sector, when added to
any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior Loan for such
Investment Project, the foregoing amounts being subject to change
from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval, or in respect of an investment, if such expenditures
shall have been made before the date of this Agreement or more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and
information required by Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement
or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to


﻿the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by Section
2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such other date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended
from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to: (i) con-
form in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of the amor-
tization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of
repayment to the Bank in respect of investments referred to in
Section 2.02 (d) of the Project Agreement, which have been approved


﻿-8-
or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section
2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take into account any cancellation
pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments
made by the Borrower under Section 2.08 of this Agreement; provided
that repayments due hereunder shall be made on March 1 and Septem-
ber 1 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include
amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
Section 2.08. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to BISA
in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise di
posed of for value by BISA, the Borrower shall promptly notify the
Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest pay-
ment date, together with the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.07 of
this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in re-
spect of such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not there-
tofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity
or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the outstand-
ing amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so repaid
or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment, pro rata to
the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts to be re-
paid on account of such investment.


﻿-9-
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3,05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 2.09. BISA is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes, of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. In consideration of the Borrower's assumption
of the risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the dollar and the currencies withdrawn from the Loan Ac-
count, the Borrower shall collect from BISA a fee payable in dol-
lars or dollar equivalent at the rate of one-fourth of one per
cent (1/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Subsid-
iary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist BISA
in financing such productive facilities and resources in Bolivia
as will contribute to the economic and social development of the
country. The Project consists in the financing of specific de-
velppment projects in the mining and industrial sectors through
loans to and investments in private enterprises in Bolivia, in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of BISA.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to BISA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower aid BISA, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of
its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions to


﻿- 11 -
take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the per-
formance by BISA of its obligations contained in the Project
Agreement and the Subsi diary Loan Agreement and will tae or
cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate
to enable the Borrower to perform such obligations.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, i2so facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 13 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.


﻿- 1~4-
ARTICLE V
Reme?. of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) BISA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BISA under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or BISA shall have failed to perform any
of their respective covenants, agreements or obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) BISA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BISA under the Share Investment Agreement;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BISA
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e) a c'hange shall have been made in the Decreto Ley No.
06213, the Statutes or the Statement of Policy which will materi-
ally and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the
financial condition or operations of BISA;
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action, or a resolution shall have been passed,
for the dissolution or liquidation of BISA;


﻿- 15 -
(g) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by BISA, if such creation, ac-
quisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
BISA's business or BISA's financial situation or the efficiency
of BISA's management and personnel or the carrying out of the
Project;
(h) a default shall have occurred under the Development
Credit Agreement other than in respect of the payment of the
principal or any other payment required thereunder; and
(i) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BISA will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (g) of Section 5.01 shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e)
or paragraph (f) or paragraph (h) of Section 5.01 shall occur.


﻿- 16-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of BISA
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and BISA, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c) the Corporation has made the first payment under the
Share Investment Agreement; and
(d) BISA has certified to the Bank that, as of a date to be
agreed between the Bank and BISA, there has been no material ad-
verse change in its financial condition since the date of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:


﻿- 17 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BISA, and is legally binding upon BISA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly au-
thorized or ratified by the Borrower and BISA, respectively, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and BISA in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 13, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-18-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFINANZAS                   BX 5332
La Paz
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿-19-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Alberto Crespo Gutierrez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 20                                         0
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)**
March 1, 1980                                      175,000
September 1, 1980                                  185,000
March 1, 1981                                      190,000
September 1, 1981                                  200,000
March 1, 1982                                      210,000
September 1, 1982                                  220,000
March 1, 1983                                      225,000
September 1, 1983                                  240,000
March 1, 1984                                      250,000
September 1, 1984                                  260,000
March 1, 1985                                      270,000
September 1, 1985                                  285,000
March 1, 1986                                      295,000
September 1, 1986                                  310,000
March 1, 1987                                      325,000
September 1, 1987                                  335,000
March 1, 1988                                      355,000
September 1, 1988                                  365,000
March 1, 1989                                      385,000
September 1, 1989                                  400,000
March 1, 1990                                      420,000
September 1, 1990                                  435,000
March 1, 1991                                      460,000
September 1, 1991                                  475,000
March 1, 1992                                      500,000
September 1, 1992                                  520,000
March 1, 1993                                      540,000
September 1, 1993                                  570,000
March 1, 1994                                      600,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement. -
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.08 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
Not more than three years                  1.45%
before maturity
More than three years but not              2.95%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                5.40%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not             6.90%
more than fourteen years
before maturity
More than fourteen years but not           7.85%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years                    8.85%
before maturity


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03 Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement no applications or requests
permitted under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such
Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect


﻿- 23 -
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received,
shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrover terminate
the right of the Borrower to submit through BISA such appli-
cations or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


