Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5098
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTUlRE AND TOURISM PROJECT
(Credit 602-GM)
May 29, 1984
Western Africa Projects Departments
Urban Division
lTis document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dueies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS AND COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit     =    Dalasi (D)
US$1              =    DL.80 (appraisal date)
Dl                =    0.56
US$l              =    D2.30 (Intervening years average)
Dl                =    0.50
US*1              =    D2.21 (Completion year average)
D1.0              =    US$0.45
D1.0              =    Bututs 100
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
rIetric                         Imperial
1 metre (m)                     3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)        0.386 square mile (sq.mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                 2.2 pounds (lb)
L tonne (m ton)                 2,204 pounds (lb)
1 liter (l)                     0.22 Imperial gallon (Sal)
or 0.26 US gallon
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS JAD ACROYNMS
AfDB      -  African Development Bank
IDA       -  International Development Association
FRG (KfW) -  Federal Republic of Germany through KreditanstaLt fUr
Wiederaufbau
FRG (GTZ) -  Federal Republic of Germany through Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit
GUC       -  Gambia Utilities Corporation
MEPID     -  Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
J4WC      -  Ninistry of Works and Communications
ODM       -  Overseas Development Ministry (U.K.)
PWD       -  Public Works Department (part of MWC)
TDA       -  Tourism Development Area (at Kotu)
TLB       -  Tourism Liaison Board
Fiscal Year
July 1   -   June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
(Credit 602-M)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Ne.
Preface .....................................                                 (i)
Basic Data Sheet ........  00*0060o................ ........a...................  (ii)-(iv)
Highlights .............................................................  (v)-(vi)
I.   INTRODUCTION **..*........................  I.1
II.   SECTOR AND MARKET BACKGROUND ..... ....................          2
III.   PROJECT PREPARATION ADD APPRAISAL ....................           4
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION, OPERkTION AND COSTS ..................           5
A.  Tourism Ccmpcnents ...............................          6
B.  Infrastructure and Public Utilities Components ....    13
C.  Precurement ... ....         ....................................    21
D.  Ccmpliance with Covenants ........................    21
E.  Ccsts and Disbursements .... .......0.................    22
V.   ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT .....................o ...    23
A.  Project Management ..............  ........... O......    23
B.  Supervisicn .......................................    24
C.  Performance cf Cc-financiers .....................    25
VI.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ............  ........ ..... .......    26
A.  Tcurism Ccmpcnents ...............................    26
B.  Gambia Utilities Corporation .....................    27
VII.   ECONOMIC PERFORLANCE ............ ......... ...........    30
A.  Rate of Retun           ...................................    30
B.  Balance ef Payments' Effects .............  ... .......    31
C.  Budgetary Effects ............. ... .    ..........    31
D.  Emplcyment Effects ................................    32
VIII.   SOCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT .................    32
IX.   ISSUES, OPPORTUNITIES AJD BENEFITS IN RETROSPECT .....    34
I.   CONCLUSIONS .......................... 0.0  .............     35
This report was compiled by Messrs. Laurence Clarke (WAPUR) and Randolph
Andersen (VAPNS), with the assistance cf Ms. Carolyn Tager and Ms. Anita
Aguilar (VAPUR).
This docunmen has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
2-1 (a) Air-Charter Tourist Arrivals to The Gambia by month
(1974/75 - 1980/81 ......................... ... **.....    37
(b) Air-Charter Tourists Classified by Length of Stay ........   .38
4-1      Gambia Hotel Training School-Enrollments/
Graduates (1977-1982) 71 8...Z......                           39
4-2      PHC: Vegetable Production and Consumption-Pilot
Horticultural Scheme (1980/81-1981/82) .................    40
4-3      PHC: Vegetable Purchases made by Hotels, Restaurants and
Supermarkets (1980/81-1981/82) .........................    41
4-4  (a) Hotel Bed Occupancy Rates (All Hotels) (1976/77-1981/82)..    42
tb) Distribution 'by Hotel Beds By Area .......................    43
(c) No. of Hotel Rooms by Hotels: Within Tourism
Development Area ...................... ..........    44
4-5.     Analysis of Forecast Appraisal and Actual Project
Costs          ................................    45
4-6      Analysis of Actual and Appraisal Disbursement
Profiles ........................                              46
4-7      Water Supply Component Contracts                                  47
6-1      Financial and Operational Indicators of Selected
Hotels in The Gambia .................    48
6-2      GUC -  Consolidated Income Statements FY1975-FY1982               49
6-3      GUC - Consolidated Sources and Application of Funds
Statements - FY1975-FY1982 .......................    50
6-4      GUC - Consolidated Balance Sheets - F11975-FY1982 .51
6-5      GUC - E'lectricity and Water Tariffs, 1974-82         ..          52
6-6      GUC - Staff Analysis - 1974 versus 1982             .            53
6-7      GUC - Electricity Division-Units Generated FY1 975-s 982  ...   54
6-8      GUC - Electricity Division-Units Sold FY1975-1982....           55
6-9      GUC - Water Division-Gallons Produced FY1975-1982 .56
6-10     GUC - Water Division-Gallons Sold FY1975-1982 ............   57
7-1      Economic Analysis (Tourfsm Components) ............. ..          58
7-2      Summary of Total Collected Revenues of Hotel Bed Tax
and Airport Departure Taxes             ........               60
8-1      Borrower's Comments on Draft Project Completion Report           61



THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 602-Gh)
PREFACE
1e       This report presents the results of a review of the Tourism
and Irnfrastructure Project in The Gambia, for which Credit 602-GX for
US$4-.0 million was approved on December 30, 1975. The credit was fu'ily
disbursed on January 25, 1983, although it was officially closed on
June 30, 1982.
2.       This report consists of a-Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by
the Urban and Water Supply Projects Divisions of the Western Africa Region.
In preparing the PCR from a review of Bank files, the Region took into account
the findings of a project completion mission carried out in February 1983, at
which time a draft report was discussed with Government. A draft completion
report-prepared by the Government of The Gambia and the Gambia Utilities
Corporation (GUC), the Government owned entity responsible for implementing
part of the project, was substantiallly utilised.
3.       In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments; their reply is shown
as Annex 8-1, together with some specific views expressed in their draft of
the PCR.
4.       Grateful thanks are extended to all those in Government and its
agencies who contributed to the execution of this project and especially to
those who participated in the review of the project performance and the
preparation of this report.
5.       As is evident, the report is slightly longer than usual for PCR's.
This is largely due to the multi-sectoral nature of the project, in which
there were sixteen discrete components (including four studies).



- ii -
THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
(Credit 602-GM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT BASIC DATA SHEET
A. KEY PROJECT DATA
Original        Actual/
Item                                Plan
Total project costs (US$ million)              11.3            11.5
Overrun         (%) 1/                                       2
Credit amount       (us$ million)              4.0               -
Disbursed       (US$ million)               -               3.99
Cancelled       (US$)                       -             437.72
Repaid                                        
Outstanding                                                 3.99
Date physical component completed             Q2-1 980        Q4-1981
Proportion completed by above date              100%            75%
Proportion of time overrun                       -           18 months
Economic rate of return                       12.1% 2/          5.8%
Financial performance                          Fair             Poor
Institutional performance - GUC                  -              Fair
- Overall             -              Good
Performance of consultants                       -              Good
B. OTHER PRO-JECT DATA
Item                                               Actual
First mention in files                                     September 14, 1971
Government application                                   No formal application
Negotiation                                                   August, 1975
Board approval                                                  12/30/75
Credit agreement date                                            1/12/76
Effectiveness date                                              12/16/76
Closing date                                                     6/30/82
Borrower                                                Government of The Gambia
Executing agencies                                      Ninistry of Information
and Tourism and GUC
Fiscal year of borrower                                      July 1-June 30
Fiscal year of the
executing agencies                                          July 1-June 30
Follow-on project name                                            N.A.
Loan/Credit number                                            N.A.
Amount USSmillion                                             N.A.
Loan/Credit agreement date                                    N.A.
1/  In US dollar terms - 16% in dalasi terms.
2/   For tourism components alone.



- iii -
C. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL DISBURSERMTS (IDA)
(US$ '000)
FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Ci)    Appraisal                  394   1926   3355   3797   4000   4000   4000
(ii)   Actual                     305    845   2122   2844   3408   3780   3898
(iii)  % of (ii) and (i)           77     44      63     75     85     95      97
D. MISSION DATA
Originating    Number of  Staff weeks      Date of
Number   Month/Year      Divis./Dept.    Persons    in Field        Report
I    3/76          Tourism (OPS)       I   --      4/01/76
II    5/76                              4  3.6      6/15/76
III   11/76                              2  1.3    12/01/76
IV    3/77                              3  3.7      4/29/77
V   11/77                              2  5.3      1/19/78
VI    2/78                    '         6  7.3      6/19/78
VII    6/78             IF               2  2.0      8/23/78
VIII   11/78           Tourism (OPS)      2  1.9      1/12/79
WAPEW
IX   2/79                     i         2  3.0      3/30/79
x    7/79          URB2 (OPS)          4  4.3      8/15/79
VAPEW
URB4 (OPS)
XI   12/79           URB4 COPS)         1 0.8       1/29/80
XII    4/80          WAPEW   1           1.3         6/29/80
XIII    8/80           URB4 (OPS)         1 0.8       9/29/80
XIV    9/80          WAPEW   1           1.0        10/24/80
XV    2/81          WAPEW   2           0.8         3/30/81
XVI    5/81           URB4    2          1.3         6/13/81
XVII    2/82           NAPUR   3          2.0         3/31/82 1/
NAPWS
OPS
XVIII    2/83           VAPUR   2            1.2       6/83 (PCR)
41.6
1/   Between Nissions XVII and XVIII, there were brief stopovers in The
Gambia by Messrs. Andersen (WAPVS) and Clarke (WAPUR) on one occasion
each while on other projects, during which brief discussions were held.



- iv -
E. COUIRTR' EXCHANGE RATES
Year                                  Exchange Rates 1/
Appraisal                                US$1 = Dl.80
1976                                  US$1 = D2.21
1977                                  US$1 = D2.29
1978                                  US$1 = D2.08
1979                                  USS1 = DI.89
1980                                  US$1 = DI.72
1981                                  US$1 = DI.97
1982                                  US$1 = D2.29
1983                                  US$1 = D2.64
1/   Average exchange rates.



-V -
THE GAMBIA
TOURISM AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 602-GM)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The objective of the Infrastructure and Tourism Project was to
provide basic infrastructure vorks for the construction of new hotels on a
site identified on the Atlantic Coast about 15 kilometers from the capital
city, Banjul. Appraisal estimated capacity for the Tourism Development Area
(TDA) by 1986 was 2,500 beds in five hotels: infrastructure to have been
provided as part of its project included access roads, water and power
supplies, sewage collection and treatment, communication, beach facilities,
construction of a hotel training school, technical assistance to the GUC,
tourism and investment studies and a food storage and marketing component.
Water and power investments were to be financed by the Federal Republic of
Germany (KfW) and the AfDB respectively on a parallel basis.
2.       The following are the main features and highlights of project
execution:
(a) Total actual project costs was US$ 11.5 million compared with
US$ 11.3 million estimated at appraisal. The 2% overrun 1/ was due
largely to inflation and exchange rate movements. The major
components affected were the sewerage, roads, and hotel training
school. Disbursements though generally satisfactory, lagged
appraisal estimates by a year and a half on average (paras 4.62 -
4.64).
(b)  Completion of implementation and project closing were delayed by two
years mainly as a result of a number of design and administrative
problems.
(c) Physical works were generally a success, with the hotel training
school, severage system, pilot horticultural irrigation scheme (which
replaced the food storage and Marketing component) and water supply
systems being well constructed, despite delays experienced in each
case. Four new hotels with aggregate bed capacity of over 1300 were
completed on the TDA by project closing, one less than appraisal
estimates. However a casino was also completed, which was not
anticipated at appraisal (paras 4.04 - 4.10).
(d) Financial performance for the hotels has been barely satisfactory,
based on limited data received to date. Slumpb in tourist arrival
have considerably affected the viability of their operations. Due to
Government restraint on tariffs financial performance of GUC has been
I/   In US dollar terms; 16% in dalasi terms.



- vi -
very poor, with none of the financial criteria identified at
appraisal being met during execution. The pilot horticultural scheme
is doing well ana should fully recover its investment costs in five
years.
(e) Largely on account of the slump in tourist arrivals, it is likely
that the project's actual economic rate of return on tLe tourism
components would fail short of appraisal estimates (6% contrasted
with 12%) unless there is a significant upswing in bed occupancy and
industry-wide consolidation of existing hotel capacity. I/ Employ-
ment generated and budgetary gains were modest (paras 7.01-7.05).
(f) Institutional performance has been generally good, with capability
for managing local tourism industry by Gambians being improved
substantially (paras 8.01-8.04), although GUC performance has been
patchy.
(g) Project management was good overall with the performance of the local
project manager during the last half of the implementation period
being creditable. Technical assistance performance varied from fair
to good (paras 5.01-5.04).
3.       The following were the major lessons learnt:
(a)  the need for careful selection of consultancy and technical
assistance personnel;
(b) the fact that external economic benefits from multi-sectoral projects
of this nature could be high despite occasional implementation
difficulties; and
(c) the need for improved institutional mechanisms to reduce leakages in
foreign exchange flows from the tourist industry (para. 9.01).
1/   Mainly through restraint in new hotel construction or expansion of
existing capacity and through increased and more agressive external and
internal marketing programs, including strengthening of on-ground
entertainment opportunities for tourists.



THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
(Credit 602-GM)
PROJECT COMP"JETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.O1     At the invitation of the Government of The Gambia, a Bank mission and
local officials in 1972 identified the Kotu area, a coastal strip west of
Banjul, as potentially highly suitable for tourism development. With UNDP
assistance, Government in the following two years prepared a 15-year compre-
hensive tourism investment program focusing almost exclusively on the area
identified. A five-year segment of this investmeat program subsequently
formed the nucleus of a project proposed for IDA financing.  A public utili-
ties component was later included, having been considered both complementary
to the development of the tourism sector and the Kotu area itself and
providing vitally missing facilities to the heavily ropulated neighboring
areas of Bakau, Fajara and Serrekunda.
1.02     In November 1974, a Bank mission appraised an integrated tourism and
public utilities project for US$11.3 million, with IDA providing US$4.0 million.
The AfDB and the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) subsequently provided
parallel financing of US$2.1 million and US$3.1 million respectively for the
electricity and water supply components. 1/ The project as conceived at
appraisal envisaged the provision of basic infrastructure for the identified
Tourism Development Area (TDA), the establishment of a hotel training school
and a food market program. Also to be included, were public utility services
such as water and electric power. Consulting services and studies for the
strengthening of the GUC and a study of the likely socio-economic impact of
tourism development on The Gambia were also included. 2/
1.03     Considering in particular that for The Gambia, this had been the
first large-scale investment in tourism infrastructure, implementation
experience has been generally satisfactory. Project execution was faced with
moderate problems for the most part, although the infrastructure components
often experienced serious administrative and operational bottlenecks. While
the project as a whole had an implementation overrun of one and a half years,
1/   The project was later updated in November, 1975, mainly because of
a delay in firming up co-financing.
2/   Details of project components are set out at para. 3.02.



-2-
total cost overrun of about US$200,000, 1/ vith one component abandoned and
snother redefined, both the Borrower and the Association are of the view that
the project has made a distinct contribution both to the country's tourist
industry and to the upgrading of the quality of life of hundreds of people
directly involved in the TDA and neighboring areas. The completed hotel
training school and innovative pilot horticultural scheme, while both ex-
periencing moderate implementation delays, have been generally considered two
of the hallmarks of this seminal project.
1.04     This project completion report is based on information contained in
the Project Appraisal Report, a review of Bank Piles which included supervi-
sion and progress reporte of the project, as well as detailed discussions with
and a Project Completion Report of the Borrower (see Project Files).
II. SECTOR AND MARKET BACKGROUND
2.01     The Gambia is virtually a one crop economy with about 90% of its
export earnings and 25% of public revenues being derived from ground nuts and
its by-products. Appreciating the need for diversifying the economic base
given the vagaries of prices of primary products in the international economy,
Government in the early 1960's shortly after Independence explored the
possibility of developing alternative exploitable options available to this
small economy. As a result of its relatively poor endowment with natural
resources, especially mineral deposits, one of the activities that emerged
with the greatest potential for exploitation in the country was the tourist
industry.
2.02     The Gambia's strength as a tourist center has been its extensive and
clean palm-fringed beaches, with its consistently pleasant climate during the
European and North American cold seasons. The country's relative proximity to
the major European tourism-generating countries and the increases in trans-
atlantic flights between neighboring Dakar and the U.S. 2/ have also been
significant in the realisation of its previously untapped potential in this
sector. For a variety of reasons, The Gambia is still relatively "unspoiled"
culturally, with very pleasant people and attractive bird-life. The majestic
Gambia River and the traditional calm of the country itself, one of Africa's
most stable, have provided The Gambia with the reputation of being a haven in
the Western African region.
1/   Because of favorable exchange rates during the execution period,
dalasi overruns was actually D3.3 million.
2/   Although traffic on this leg has to date not been as heavy as
originally anticipated. Response from the U.S. tourist market has so
far been only lukewarm.



-3-
2.03     Since the commencement of beach-based tourism traffic in 1966/67,
largely through air-charters, tourist arrivals in The Gambia rose sharply from
528 to just under 25,000 in 1973/74. 1/ Since then arrivals have fluctuated
between a low of 16,000 in the 1977/78 season and a high of just under 26,000
in 1978/79. A number of factors, including a slowdown in the development of
the international tourism market and the 1981 attempted coup d'-stat have taken
a toll on the country's tourism industry.  From 1978/79, arrivals in The
Gambia have generally fallen off each year, except for the current 1982/83
season which is expected to reflect a moderate upturn (see Annex 2-1).
Foreign visitor nights have also been fluctuating mainly as a result of the
fluctuation in arrivals and the often adverse rate of exchange of the dalasi
relative to other European currencies. 2/ Historically, tourism arrivals to
The Gambia had originally been largely from Scandinavia (mainly Sweden and
Denmark). Subsequently, the number of German charters has risen signifi-
cantly, with arrivals in 1978/79 representing some 25% of total arrivals for
that year. There was, however, a major slump in the 1980/81 season, on
account of a withdrawal of the German air charters. Thereafter, the U.K.
became the leading source of tourists. In fact, it has been this heavy depen-
dence on the air charters that has induced the marked fluctuation in the
Gambian tourist industry in. recent years. While emphasis on charters presents
major benefits of bulk supply, charter travel tends to be highly volatile to
changes in market condition.
2.04     At appraisal, gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism amounted
to D9 million, representing 15% of commodity exports and 7% of G.D.P. Net
foreign exchange earnings were estimated at 45% of gross earnings from tourism.
The industry also provided employment for about 3,100 people directly, while
indirect employment in restaurants, shops, tour agencies, construction,
handicrafts and other related services amounted to about 1,000 jobs.
2.05     Largely as a result of changing international and domestic circum-
stances and the impact of the project itself, The Gambia's tourist industry
as a whole has emerged-very rapidly over the past six years of project execu-
tion. Bed capacity for new hotel investments has exceeded appraisal esti-
mates, though there has been some ir.balance in the actual location of these
investments among the three development areas originally identified under the
project. Virtually all construction has been centered on Kotu Strand, with
only one of the four new hotels on the TDA constructed outside this area
(para 4.18). Earnings and yields from the industry have not been as
significant as anticipated (Chapters 6 and 7) and the overall operating
performances of newly constructed and previously existing hotels have been
below levels projected at appraisal. In recognition of the stagnation in
international tourist industry in general in recent years and a resultant
excess capacity created in The Gambia, the Government has decided (and has
incorporated in its Second Five Year Plan for 1981/82-1985/86) to restrain
1/   Tourist arrival figures have generally only reflected air-charter
arrivals.
2/   The dalasi has fluctuated in value iCron US56 cents in 1975 to
US48 cents in 1978 to US58 cents in 1980 and is presently US40 cents.



further expansion of accommodation capacity during the coming five years. New
hotel investments or increases to existing capacity would not be encouraged
and emphasis would be directed at improvements of on-ground support activities
as well as the quality of the product delivered. Further, as a result of
studies made both under and as a result of the project, efforts are being
intensified as a priority to improve the institutional means of capturing more
of the gains from the tourist industry to the benefit of the local economy.
The Bank project itself has been crucial in the identification of some of
these institutional constraints and loopholes and in providing Government with
an infrastructure and framework within which to direct the industry's
evolution in the future (paras. 8.01-8.04).
III. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
3.01     Following the initial request and invitation by Government for Bank
assistance (para 1.01), several Bank missions visited The Gambia to prepare
the project over a two and one-half year period. A nunber of issues were
raised during preparation, resolution of which formed the basis for the final
proposal that was appraised and for the agreed covenants.
3.02     The project consisted of the follo-wing components at appraisal:
(a) expansion of the water supply and electric power systems serving the
Banjul, Kombo-St. Nary and Kombo North areas, and their extension
into the tourism and labor support areas (KfV and AfDB respectively);
(b)  conversion of the power generating plant in Banjul to use heavy fuel
oil;
(i) extension of the telecommunications facilities to the tourism and
labor support areas;
(d) sewerage and solid waste disposal for the tourism area;
(e) extension of an access road to the tourism area and construction of
secondary roads and paths bet-ween the resort sites and within the
labor support area;
(f) public beach facilities and shopping area for the resort sites;
(g) hotel training facilities for about 100 trainees, including the
cGnstruction and equipnent of classrooms, and funds for technical
assistance;
(h)  a food storage and marketing program aimed at increasing the
proportion of locally produced food consumed by tourists in order to
reduce imports; and,
(i) funds for the project management unit, investment promotion, studies
and technical assistance to strengthen GUC.



-5-
3-03     Subsequent to appraisai, and at the Bank's suggestion, Government had
invited the African Development Bank and the German Government to participate
in the financing of the project, on account of limited availability of IDA
funds. AfDB first responded and agreed to finance the electricity component
for wbich the credit agreement was signed in January, 1976. After some a&min-
istrative delays, the German Government through KfW undertook to finance the
water supply component, signing the credit agreement in October, 1976. Both
agreements were finally completed and ratified by The Gambian Parliament in
October, 1976.
3.04     At appraisal, it was estimated that effectiveness of the credit would
take place within ninety days of Board signing. As it turned out, effective-
ness was not completed until almost a year after. The major conditions of
effectiveness were (a) signing of the financing agreements between Government
and the AfDB and KfW for the electricity and water supply components respec-
tively; (b) the conclusion of a subsidiary agreement between Government and
GUC; and (c) the appointment of the Project Manager. After two extensions of
the deadline, credit effectiveness finally took place on December 12, 1976,
seven months after the original expected date. The major sources of delay
were the signing of the financing agreement between Government and KfW -and the
appointment of the Project Manager.
3.05     The total estimated cost of the project at appraisal was about
US$11.3 million, or D22 million, including contingenctes. Of this total, an
estimated US$4 million or (D7.2 million), would be for tourism-related infra-
structure and the remainder for investments in Dublic utilities to meet the
needs of the expanding local urban population. The foreigL exchange component
was about US$8.8 million.  It was proposed that the foreign exchange component
and US$0.4 million of local cost - in total, 81% of project cost - be financed
from abroad. The AfDB was to finance the electricity component (US$2.1 million)
and Kfff the water supply component (US$3.1 million). Government was to
provide the balance of funds (US$2.1 million) for local costs.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND COSTS
4.01     Although the project as a whole has been affected, with aggregate
delays of 18 months and cost overruns'of 2X 1/ of total over appraisal
estimates, the implementation experience must on balance be considered
satisfactory. For purposes of reanalysis and review of this experience, it
would be appropriate to distinguish between those components directly related
to tourism and those that were supportive to the tourist sector as a whole,
namely the infrastructure and public utilities' components.
1/   In US dollar terms (16% in Dalasis).



-6-
A.' Tourism Components
4.02     The tourism components comprise (a) the construction of a new hotel
training school; (b) the construction of public beach facilities and shopping
centers; (c) the pilot horticultural scheme; (d) the food storage complex and
marketing program; (e) the waste disposal and beach-cleaning equipment;
(f) tourism and investment promotion; and (g) the study of the socio-economic
aspects of tourism in The Gambia.
4.03     Responsibility for execution of the tourism component lay primarily
with the Ministry of Information and Tourism (MIT). An existing Tourism
Liaison Board (TLB), set up in 1972 and chaired by the Ministry of Infrrmation
and Tourism with representation from all agencies involved in tourism planning
and development, was upgraded as a condition of effectiveness to enhance
project coordination and investment promotion activity.
Execution/Construction
4.04     Execution of the tourism element under the Project was generally
satisfactory, although virtually all of the components were affected by some
delays. At appraisal, it was envisaged that execution of the tourism com-
ponents would all be completed by mid-1980, anticipated execution ranging from
two years for the studies to three years for the hotel training school and
tourism and investment promotion components. Actual execution of all of these
components was finally completed by mid-1982. 1/
4.05     Hotel Training School: The Hotel Training School has been generally
considered successful, both by the Borrower, the co-financiers, the Federal
Republic of Germany (GTZ) and IDA. At appraisal, it was envisaged that the
school would comprise two teaching classrooms, a language laboratory and
practical classrooms for kitchen, restaurant/bar, front office and house-
keeping training, with adequate facilities for an intake of 50 students
annually and an upgrade of another 50 already in the industry. Two man-years
of technical assistance, to complement an incumbent German training team in
the field at appraisal, were also funded under the Project. There were some
significant initial design and contracting delays partly resulting from poor
performance by the original architects. Two years after the commencement of
initial design work, another firm was'contracted to complete the work and
finally submitted drawings in May, 1978. Tenders were advertised in
December, 1978. Work finally began by a British construction firm in late
1979, with a promised completion date of September, 1980 and an estimated cost
of DI.7 million. By the time the School was tutned over to the Ministry of
Information and Tourism, some 17 months after the estimated completion date,
it was significantly different from that anticipated at appraisal. It was
determined, for instance, that the area of 200 square meters originally
estimated was very inadequate and, as a result, there'was a major under-
estimation of funds required. Fortunately, much needed supplementary finan-
cing (Dl million) was provided by the GTZ at Government's request. IDA funds
1/   Of which delays in effectiveness accounted for seven months.



-7-
(D700,000) were used exclusiveli for consulting and construction costs, while
the GTZ contribution vas shared between construction and costs of equipment.
The school, as constructed presently in the Kar.fi-ig area (after it was
determined that the first site at Cape Point had a major foundation problem),
bas tne following major facilities: five classrooms, one training kitchen, one
training restaurant, one bar, administrative block, laundry training section
and a solar hot water heating system. No major construction prc.jlems have
emerged so far, and landscaping has virtually been completed already. The
school is presently staffed by ten instructors and headed by a vell-trained
Gambian. The FRG (GTZ) provided an experienced advisor, whose contract is
expected to conclude by 1984. Since completion of construction, some
57 students have graduated, and another batch of 86 is presently under train-
ing (Annex 4.1). Competition, based on written and oral exsaminations for
entry, has been quite-intense.  Government has fully assumed responsibility
for future operations, including recurrent costs, which have grown by over
25% 1/ between 1980/81 and 1981/82. Efforts are being made by Government to
convince the hotels to contribute in a substantial way to the school's rapidly
growing operating requirements. The present curriculum envisages continued
refresher training courses for about 200 hotel employees annually. Some 400
employees have already benefitted from such courses.
4.06     Food Storage and Marketing: The food storage aspect of this component
was dropped after serious review by Government and IDA. At appraisal, it was
determined that some 85% of foodstuff consumed by tourists in The Gambia was
imported. The food storage and marketing program was designed to address this
shortcoming through the provision of a storage complex, including a reception
and grading area, dry and cold storage and a deep-freeze plant to supply fresh
food regularly during the summer season. The services of an experienced
marketing manager and a plant engineer were to be financed under the project.
This component was also to serve as a pilot for a larger horticultural storage
and market project which was to be prepared later by Government. During
implementation, a feasibility study of the proposal was undertaken on behalf
of the Ministry of Agriculture, with ODM financing. The study concluded that
the overheads of the proposed complex were likely to be unreasonably high,
implying a consistent reliance on the Government for compensatory fundu. In
addition, it was determined that hotel food consumption would be relatively
small, and that the range of vegetable and fruits and their production cycles
were not consistent with hotel requirements and the timing of the tourist
season. As a result, it was agreted bf IDA and Government to replace this
component by a pilot horticultural scheme.
4.07     Pilot Horticultural Scheme: At Government's request, the pilot
horticultural scheme was included after a few other alternatives, including
the construction of limited storage facilities at the Albert and Serrakunda
markets were evaluated. Under a revised credit agreement, the new scheme was
to establish three cooperative irrigated schemes in neighboring towns near the
Greater Banjul area. The first phase was to consist Of the establisbment of a
ten-hectare scheme at Banjullunding near the Yundum International Airport,
1/   Largely as a result of expansion in activities and recurrent
expenditure arising from the new school.



-8
while subsequent phases under the project envisaged the establishment of 18-
and 30-hectare schemes respectively at Brikana and Medina Sering Mass in the
Western and North Bank divisions. However, Government was of the view that,
while this component would address the production or supply side of food Crops
as an important requirement of the tourist sector, there was a distinct need,
nevertheless, for a study to review the prospects of marketing horticultural
products in general in The Gambia. Government therefore requested that such a
study be also included under this component.
4.08     Of all the tourism components, this pilot horticultural scheme was,
in fact, subject to the longest delays, on account of the redefinition that
was required and a number of other difficulties experienced subsequently. On
the physical side, after it was decided that Phase I would be implemented
under the Project largely on account of funding constraints, there were major
delays resulting from (a) problems in the requisition (specifications) and
installation of the irrigation equipment; (b) confusion over the funding
arrangements by the Department of Agriculture responsible for execution; and
(c) inadequate supply of seeds for the first phase of planting. These diffi-
culties notwithstanding, construction of the boreholes and other irrigation
equipment was completed in April, 1980, and planting for the first season
began in May, 1980. It was decided that the Banjul site would be cultivated
by a cooperative of 40 farmers in two seasons. Groundnuts would be planted
during the wet season and other cash crops during the dry season. In the two
wet seasons of 1980 and 1981, 7.5 hectares and 4 hectares respectively of
groundnuts were planted. Total net yield was 29 tons and 7 tons respectively
and gross cash takings were just over D16,000 and D3,000 respectively.
Operating costs represent 14% and 50% of gross revenues for the two seasons.
It is evident that lack of such economies was emerging in the second year's
activities. In addition, the quality of seeds in 1981 was apparently very
inferior to that in 1980.
4.09     In the dry season, a variety of vegetables was planted.  Annex 4.2
indicates that for both seasons a total of just over 7 hectares were culti-
vated, with varying effective crop yields grossing over D31,000 and just under
D30,000 respectively in sales in the 1980 and 1981/82 seasons. As a result,
if the eristing trends are sustained in both wet and dry seasons, the initial
capital investment for this componenit (D29,000) would be fully recovered in
five years.  While production was, on average, quite good for both seasons,
marketing has, by contrast, been proving to be a problem. In the first cycle
of vegetable production, some 45% of the total produce was spoilt as a result
of a lack of adequate storage. In the second cycle, significantly less of the
produce was spoilt, which though an improvement, is still far from efficient.
Lack of seeds has also affected both crop growing dry seasons to date. Both
problems are now being seriously addressed by the Department of Agriculture,
and it is expected that the present 1982/83 season should show distinct
improvements in these areas.
4.10     As Annex 4.3 indicates, consumption by hotels and supermarkets of
produce from the pilot horticultural scheme amounted to about 7.4 tons in
1980/81 and 1981/82 crop seasons. This has represented only about 20% of
total production of 36 tons over the same period. Moreover, consumption by
hotels in 1981/82 was lower than in 1980/81, despite the fact that the scheme



-9-
had demonstrated its capability and potential. Efforts have been intensified,
as a result, to convince the hotels of their need to demonstrate increased
loyalty to the scheme, given its overall objectives.
4.11     After a very difficult start, owing to the lack of appropriate
expertise in The Gambia and initial wavering about the desirability of under-
taking it, the study of marketing of vegetables and fruits was finally
initiated. Terms of reference were agreed upon in March, 1982, and a team of
local officers in the Ministries of Agriculture, Economic Planning and
Industrial Development (one horticulturalist and one economist), was awarded
the assignment, to be supported by an expatriate market expert. After work
lasting five months, including two months of field surveys and interviews and
a study tour of neighboring Senegal, a detailed draft final report was
produced by the team just after project closing date. While the report has
clearly made a contribution to the body of knowledge on vegetable and fruit
cultivation in The Gambia, it suffered from, among other things, a lack of
thoroughness in the analysis of the financial implications of the three
marketing options proposed. In addition, it was not rigorous enough in the
analysis of the Senegalese experience in a major similar marketing undertaking
(Budsenegal), which went bankrupt. This experience, and a number of other
features of marketing in general in The Gambian context, would have clear
implications for the viability of any of the report's propositions. Further
work is being done on the report, including improved editing. A summary, to
be produced, is expected to form the basis of a policy paper to be prepared
for Cabinet consideration.
4.12     Despite these setbacks and difficulties there is little doubt, based
on the extensive coverage and reviews the pilot horticultural scheme in
particular received both by Gambians and non-Gambians, that this scheme was
path-breaking and replicable. Government is now embarking on attempts at
replicating the irrigation techniques, and has since been urging private
sector intervention in the area.
4.13     Socio-Economic Study:  The objective of the study of the socio-
economic aspects of tourism was to afford Government an opportunity of
assessing the likely economic, social and other impact of the emerging tourist
industry in The Gambia and adopt suitable policies and programs accordingly.
The study experienced significant implementation delays and some divergence
from the original appraisal objectives. In addition to some initial diffi-
culty with consultant selection, there were a number of operational difficul-
ties experienced during subsequent execution. The consultants appeared
distinctly stronger in the socio-cultural than economic aspects of the study,
and as a result almost twice as much time was spent on the former than the
latter. There appeared to have been confusion over the need for the con-
sultants to prepare interim reports, as well as setbacks in data processing,
occasioned by the inadequacy of processing facilities in Senegal (which -
material had to be subsequently taken back to the United States). The draft
final report, while representing a major contribution to the area in The
Gambia, was considered by IDA and, to a large extent, also by Government, of
low quality, especially in the economic aspects. It was generally felt that
the lack of expertise by the consultants in the tourism sector 'per se' was
largely responsible for the substandard quality of the work. (In retrospect,



- 10 -
IDA's original insistence that the study should have been done by a consulting
firm, as opposed to individual consultants, might have been particularly
.justified.) After some revisions, an edited executive summary was prepared,
which partially formed the basis for the Government's paper on Tourism for the
Second National Development Plan.
4.14     Public Beach Facilities (Bengdulas): These facilities were completed
and procured with generally no major construction problems, though with some
delay due largely to procurement problems. While at appraisal, it was decided
to provide two rentable public beach facilities, to include dressing rooms,
showers and sanitary facilities, along with African-style market stands for
- .he sale of local handicrafts and fruits, only one was finally constructed at
Kotu Strand. This was mainly on account of reallocation of funds resulting
from cost overruns on the access roads, sewerage and other components and the
poor progress made on hotel construction on the other two sites. The complex
was put into use in March, 1979. The 34 stalls, including stores, an informa-
tion kiosk, a bicycle rental, and restaurant are presently rented to
60 vendors at D50 and D25 per stall during the tourist and off-tourist seasons
respectively. Each stall is shared by two vendors. Operation has been to
full capacity during tourist seasons to date. The Bengdula iB a distinct
success in both design and commercial aspects, though there are a number of
defects in workmanship that have affected its overall effectiveness.
4.15     Solid Waste Disposal: Instead of one tractor-trailer and bulldozer
anticipated at appraisal for the collection of solid waste from the TDA and
the cleaning of beaches, only one tractor with front loader and a covered
refuse lorry were acquired, mainly on funding constraints. The supply of the
equipment has noticeably improved the performance of cleansing services for
the TDA.
4.16     Investment and Tourism Promotion:  The objective of the hotel invest-
ment promotion component was to provide expert assistance to Government in
attracting hotel investors for the Tourism Development Area. Funds were made
available for expert services, promotional materials and an advertising
campaign to attract hotel investors to The Gambia.  It was also intended that
the program would prepare the establishment of a line of credit for hotel
construction. As it turned out, the;e appeared to have been some-confusion
between the Borrower and the Association about the original intention of this
component. The general argument made was that the funds earmarked (D140,000
or US$78,000) were inadequate for the kind of extended and sustained activity
required to attract hotel investment. This arqument, however, appears to be
only partially accurate. The true objective at appraisal appears to have been
the provision of the basic infrastructure under the credit, with further work
to be done by Government, utilizing the background materials and expertise
provided with project funding. At the outset of execution, there were a
number of delays experienced arising from differences in positions between IDA
and Government. IDA, for instance, favored the engagement of a consultant
group to effect the assignment, while Government preferred an employment
advisor. After the terms of reference were agreed upon, IDA reversed its
position in the interest of speedy implementation and supported the advisor.
When the advisor finally got on board, for six months he was attached almost
exclusively to the Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development.



- 11 -
As a result, he was not fully involved in the development of a national
tourism investment strategy to the extent anticipated at appraisal, despite
his very solid personal experience in the sector. For example, the report be
left at the end of his mission was reviewed, but apparently given only limited
follow-up by Government.
4.17     Recognizing a vacuum in the area of tourist traffic promotioh,
Government subsequently requested and acquired agreement from the Association
to fund the production of some tourism information literature, namely, the
production of some 100,000 guidebooks and 8,000 posters. After a first
contract by a local producer ran into difficulties, because the producer
committed a criminal offense (not related to his assignment), a second con-
tract for the production of a holiday guide was finally awarded in
November, 1981 to a British firm for D100,000 (US$48,000), after a delay of
almost two years. Completion of this guide was expected by August, 1982, but
were not actually delivered until lay, 1983.
4.18     Hotel Construction: Since project effectiveness, construction of
hotel investments on the TDA has been satisfactory. At appraisal, it was
anticipated that by the end of 1982 some five new hotels would be on stream in
the TDA with incremental capacity of 1,490 beds and aggregate capacity of
1,755 (Annex 4-4). As it turned out, while actual capacity over this review
was 10% less than appraisal estimates (Annex 4.4) in the TDA, construction was
also quite imbalanced, being concentrated mainly in Kotu Strand, with very
little activity in Kotu Beach apart from the Senegambia Hotel. Virtually
nothing has been done to date on Kotu Point. 1/ Although all the plots were,
at one time or another, allocated to potentiaT investors, construction was
very slow on average. Of the four new hotels actually built since appraisal,
Government's participation has been substantial, though private sector
involvement has been greater by far. 2/
4.19     It was generally felt that the stagnation in the international
tourist industry, the often inconsistent and unaggressive follow-up by the
Ministry of Information and Tourism, lack of funding and, in the case of Kotu
Beach, inadequate provision of basic infrastructure, together adversely
affected the overall development of hotels on the TDA. In the case of Kombo
Beach Hotel, persistent management disputes have left the hotel closed for
some 24 months now since completion, despite the potential for a successful
1982/83 tourist season.
1/  A c&sino was constructed by a Sierra Leonean at Kotu Point. A
hotel commenced on one of the plots was never completed. By project
closing there were rumours of an impending closure of the casino on
account of lack of adequate business.
2/  Government, for instance, holds 60% and 49% respectively of the
shares of Senegambia and Kombo Beach Hotels, which together have over
1,100 beds.



- 12 -
4.20     Tourist Arrivals:  The table below sets out a suamary position of
actual tourist arrivals and appraisal projects between 1975/76 and 1985/86.
It is evident that actual arrivals have been significantly less than appraisal
estimates in every single year. As a start, hotel bed occupancy rates in The
Gambia have slumped from a high of 64% in 1979/80 to a low of 41.3% in
1981/82. A number of factors have been ascribed for this marked decline in
tourist arrivals and resulting hotel bed occupancy. 1/
NMRKET SITUATION AID PROSPECTS FOR CHARTER TOURISM
(Number of Charter Tourists)
Year          Appraisal ProJection          Actual and Current
Projection
1975/76              20,000                        21,116
1980/81              30,000                        21,327
1981/82                 -                           16,962
1982/83                  -                         25,000
1985/86              45,000                        28,000
Source:  Ministry of Information and Tourism
(a) The increasing cost of air fares internationally, largely as a result
of sharp rises in aviation fuel costs, and the reduction in growth in
tourism internationally;
(b)  the national disturbances in mid-1981, as a result of which a number
of planned charters were cancelled;
(c)  sour relations in the early-1980a between German tour operators and
Gambian promoters;
(d) below-average promotion and marketing efforts prior to 1980, though
significant improvements have taken place since then through presence
at international tourist fairs in Europe and other promotional
activies; and,                0
(e) relatively poorly developed on-ground activities 2/ for tourists,
which has affected the 'faithfulness' factor with not many visitors
generally undertaking repeat trips to The Gambia.  Government has
recently intensified efforts in this area to redress this drawback.
1/   Although declining average bed occupancy is also attributable to
the increase in the number of beds relative to demand.
2/   Attractions and places of interest to be visited in The Gambia.



- 13 -
B. Infrastructure and Public Utilities Components
:.21     These components embrace (a) TDA access roads; (b) expansion of tele-
communications fac lities into the TDA; (c) electricity generation; (d) heavy
fuel conversion of generating sets; (e) alternative fuel study; (f) vater
supply system augmentation; and (g) provision of sewerage to the TDA.
4.22     Responsibility for execution of these components was assigned to the
Public Works Department (PYD) of the Ministry of Works and Communications (NMC)
for (a) above, the Posts and Telecommunications Department (PTD) of the NMC
for (b) above, and to GUC for the remainder, (c) to (g) above.
Execution/construction
4.23     Access Roads: The fundamental objective of the access roads component
was to provide road access to the resort sites and the labor support areas, as
i,=.l as footpeth.; .-tween the resort sites themselves.
4.24     The design contract which was awarded to a Sierra Leonean company in
ALugust 1976, was completed in June 1977. The construction contract for
US$1.35 million was awarded to a Spanish company based in Banjul. There were
a number of problems during the design and tendering stages. For instance, it
became evident during execution that there was an underestimation at design
stage of the earthiork required to be done. Additionally, the intersection
designs were also very poor and tender instructions by the Sierra Leonean
consultants were apparently not satisfactory. Their first evaluation report
was rejected by the Gambia Government. As a result, the consultants were not
engaged to supervise execution, which was carried out by the PWD'B Western
Region Engineer.
4.25     Although construction, which began in February, 1978 and ended in
March, 1979, was completed some three months before the appraisal target, the
component was subject to a 78% cost overrun (US$0.7 million). I/  In a number
of respects also, the quality of the work was also quite poor.  Apart from the
technical errors made at the design stage, the original bills of quantities
were not followed regarding the use of basalt for the pavement resulting in
all 10 kms of the road being paved with the wrong size chips. It was there-
fore necessary to apply a third layer of 3/8 mm chips in order to seal the
surface properly. Moreover, at construction, the faults of designing were
either not readily recognized or were ignored. Finally, supervision under-
taken by the PWD was apparently below standard, due to four changes of PWD
engineer and the lack of continuous monitoring of construction activity. This
gave rise to a number of technical errors which would noTmally have been
resolved during execution. The PWD complained of lack of manpower and
expertise to maintain continuous supervision of the project site, in the face
of their other competing job requirements.
4.26     Telecommunications: The objective of the telecommunications component
was to provide telephone and telex facilities to the resort sites in Kotu and
1/   A large part of which was attributable to exchange rate changes.



- 14 -
the labor support area. In the course of implementing the project component,
its scope was slightly expanded to include certain equipment which was
necessary to remove bottlenecks at the Serrekunda Exchange. As a result of
accelerated demand for telecommunications service in the Kombo Areas, the
strain on the Serrekunda Exchange was increased.  This bottleneck had to be
removed before extending the lines to the TDA, as no more connections could be
made.  Due to the prevailing low price of copper, it became possible to expand
the scope of the project component without exceeding the appraisal estimate of
US$0.11 million. Serrekunda Telephone Exchange was extended by an additional
200 lines, bringing the capacity to 800 lines from the original 600 line
capacity.
4.27     On the whole, the component was well executed with no overruns,
although two points need to be raised which have implications for future
operations of the component. First, the cable paths to the hotels are mainly
through swampy areas, subjecting them to seasonal damages during the farming
period. Also, frequent occurrences of lightning discharges during the rainy
season adversely affect the underground cables. All this creates problems for
the Department, resulting in periodic disruptions of services to the resort
sites. Second, the existing trunk line between Bmanjul and the Kombos is
already obsolete, resulting in connection delays. A proposed project, the
first phase of which will be commissioned by the end of 19B5, has been
designed to respond to existing deficiencies and to expand the entire
telecommuniations system in the Greater Banjul and Kombo Areas (Annex 8-1).
4.28     Electricity Generation and Transmission:  The electricity component
of this Project was intended to reinforce GUC installations in the Banjul Area
and to improve its management.  More specifically, it was to:
(a)  expand the capacity of Half Die Power Station with a three megawatt
generator;
(b)  eouip five new 33kV/11kV sub-stations to upgrade the 33kV line then
being constructed, and five I1kV/0.4kV sub-stations;
(c) to construct various overhead and underground 11kV transmission lines
and 400/230 volt distribution lines in the tourism and labor support
areas; and,                  -
(d) to obtain tools, instruments and vehicles.
4.29     A British firm acting as electrical engineering consultants to GUC,
prepared and issued the approved tender documents during 1977. Nine offers
were received from four co-intries in January, 1978 for the generator and the
sub-stations. The consultants, in their April, 1978 evaluation report,
recommended acceptance of the tender from a British engineering firm.
4.30     However, concurrently with their tender evaluation, the consultants
suggested in 1978, probably influenced by the November 1977 problems at Half
Die (see para. 4.37), that Half Die was not a suitable venue for the new
generator. The consultants proposed that a new power station should be built
at Kanifing. They also warned that due to the recent high rate of inflation



- 15 -
all of the work originally proposed could not be carried out within the funds
available. In April, 1978, the Project Manager reported to IDA and AfDB that
most of the .esser parts of the electricity component could no longer be
funded, and that the generator and the sub-stations would absorb all the
available funds. In May, 1978, AfDB responded to this initiative by cabling
agreement in general terms to the idea of a new site, but subject to an
appraisal mission to The Gambia to evaluate the proposal. The AIDB indicated
that a Government req-iest to the Bank for an emergency power loan would be
favorably received if it was supported by a suitable study to be performed by
new consultants. In June, 1978, GUC formally asked another U.K. consultant to
perform a feasibility study, which was available in draft in October, 1978.
4.31     In the meantime, the supply contract for the diesel generating set
was made available to AfDB for approval prior to signature. This component
was by now being referred to as "Power Project I", to distinguiah it from the
new loan being considered from AfDB in respect of a new power station which
was known as "Power Project II".
4.32     The advent of Power Project II meant a lengthy delay in the final
implementation of the electricity component of the infrastructure and tourism
project under its new auspices as Power Project I. This was partly due to the
fact that the generator could not be delivered until the new power station was
constructed. The AfDB in 1976 had approved a project to install a particular
generator at Half Die Power Station. By 1978, it was faced with new circum-
stances demanding a modified generator in a new location. Strict application
of the AfDB's own procedures presented it with problems requiring post-
approval changes in a project. This prevented any progress on the finaliza-
tion of the contract and supply of the generator. These difficulties caused
GUC some embarrassment since the supplier had, in good faith, performed much
of the manufacturing work required on the assurance that they had won the
tender. In an agreement dated February 21, 1979, between AfDB and The Gambia
Government, a further loan of 5 million UA became available for Power Project
II, and Power Project I then proceeded concurrently with Power Project II.
4.33     The engineering firm never did receive the contract for the generator
they had made because at a meeting in October, 1979 between AfDB, OUC and
another engineering firm, it was agreed that the former engineering firm would
drop out of the picture in favor of the latter, their parent eompany, who were
the successful tenderers for the generAtor required under Power Project II.
The AfDB finally accepted this solution to their procedural dilemma, and the
parent engineering company received the down-payment in December, 1979.
Finally, the generator was installed at Kotu Power Station, becoming
operational in June, 1981, some three and a half years after submission of the
original bid.
4.34     By the beginning of 1980, with a substantial fall in the value of the
Unit of Account due to the fall in value of the dollar, it became clear that
the 2 million Units of Account were no longer sufficient for the pruned
project, and GUC applied for a top-up loan through Government, which was
refused by AfDB. The original value of 2 million Units of Account in 1976 was
D5,550,000. However, most of the expenditure on this component was not
disbursed until 1980 and 1981 when the value had fallen to D4,300,000. As a



_ 16 -
result, only the 3.5 NW generator was supplied and installed; all other sub-
components were dropped to keep within the limit of the available funds.
4.35     Heavy Fuel Adaptation: The objective of this project component was to
assist GUC to shift to heavy fuel oil by converting Engine Sets 2, 5, and 6 at
the Corporation's Half Die plant and thereby reduce the fuel cost by about
one-third.
4.36     The funds allocated, US$739,000, were to cover conversion equipment,
fuel supply facilities and engineering services. The Corporation's elec-
tricity U.K. based conaultants, were appointed consultants in May, 1976 for
the component, although they were hesitant about conversion from the outset,
as they contended that there was a need for better maintenance of the
engines. In June, 1977, they submitted a report on the feasibility of
converting the engines. While the report highlighted the economic viability
of the conversion, the consultants also introduced the possibility of the need
for a new power station, and questioned the appropriateness of the conver-
sion. On the insistence of Government, work continued, and specifications for
the conversion equipment were prepared and steps were taken to procure the
fuel aupply facilities.
4.37     Events were to overtake this project component when, in November, 1977,
Engine Set No. 5 was irreparably damaged due to f)jwhoel disintegration and
also caused extensive damage to sets numbered 4 and 6. It also became clear
that Engine Set No. 2 was in a bad mechanical condition with limited life,
which could not justify the expense of conversion. The consultants, in
May, 1978, documented eight reasons why conversion to heavy fuel was not
appropriate for the generating sets at Half Die. All the circumstances led to
the cancellation of this component after 9,939.49, or US$20,433, had already
been spent on the engineering services. A substantial part of the funds was
reallocated into technical assistance to help repair the damaged sets and
install several emergency sets.
4.38     Because of the cancellation, no reasonable evaluation can be made
about this component. The performance of the British consultant, is
questioned by the Borrower indicating that the consultants probably felt
vindicated by the problems caused by Engine Set No. 5 and the subsequent
problems with the other sets rendering them not capable of conversion. Never-
theless, the component should not be viewed in isolation, as the conversion
could only have taken place concurrently with the installation of the new
engine financed by the AfDB (Set No. 7), and with technical assistance from
and training of personnel by the manufacturer.- Additionally, it should be
noted that Government's electrical engineering consultant for Power
Project II, also recommended against the use of heavy fuel due to GUC's
perceived level of technical competence.
4.39     Alternative Fuel Study: This study was commissioned early in 1976 and
undertaken by GUC's electricity consultants, to assess the availability and
feasibility of steam power generation, using groundnut shells as fuel. The
Interim Report was made available in June, 1977, and there was some doubt
about the extent to which the consultants made sufficiently energetic investi-
gations in The Gambia and elsewhere to obtain new and valid data. As a result



- 17 -
of the many weaknesses in the report, especially the economic analysis,
including sensitivity tests. A British firm of financial consultants was
appointed in 1978 to assist GUC's electri-ity consultants with their economic
analysis. In April, 1978, the financial consultants produced a sensitivity
analysis, based on the cost analysis contained In the electricity consultant's
Interim Report. In their sensitivity analysis it was clearly stated by the
financial consultants that before any decision was taken on either mode of
generation (i.e., steam or diesel), further work was required regarding diesel
fuel prices, cost of capital and future availability of groundnut shells.
4.40     Due to various delays and the focus on a new power station (see
paragraph 4.30), there was a loss of interest in this study by all concerned.
There was a growing assumption that this component was not viable, due to lack
of sufficiently reliable suppLies of the relevant alternative fuels, parti-
cularly groundaut shells (the groundnut crop was decelining), although coose
and other waste agricultural products could have been canvassed. Due to a
change of personnel, a final report was never produced. However, the Borrower
suggests that in the national interest, from the point of view of saving
foreign exchange by the efficient utilization of a local resource and the
possible reduction in unit costs of electricity generation, this project
should be regenerated.
4.41     Banjul Water Supply System Expansion:  In 1974, GtCs water supply
consultants undertook an Outline Design Study (funded by the UK, ODM) of the
Banjul and Kombos water production and distribution requirements over the next
decade. The consultant's report of May, 1974 -was the basis for the Tourism
Project Water Component, financed by KfW. Part of the KfW loan interest was
to be used for 'approved projects", and by a later modification of the wording
of the Agreement, to finance four expatriate experts, including an accountant.
4.42     As part of site investigation, GUC asked their consultants in March,
1976 to undertake a Groundwater Study. A British firm was awarded the
drilling contract in November, 1976. Work began in January, 1977, and was
completed by December, 1977. Seven observations and five exploration
boreholes were drilled, which confirmed the adequacy of the underground
aquifers, showing at least three times the required capacity. Seven produc-
tion wells were sunk, including five at the new wellfield at Wellingara.
4.43     Concurrently with the Groundwater Study, GUC also in March 1976 made
a further agreement with their water supply consultants to design and
supervise the construction of the wFirst Stage" program of works proposed in
their Outline Design Study. The design was sufficiently advanced by the end
of 1976 to allow invitations for supply of materials and civil works.
4.44     There were two civil works contracts, one for the boreholes and one
f-or the remaining construction woric. There were ten supply contracts, cover-
ing pipes, valves, steel tanks, treatment plant, high lift pumps, borehole
pumps, standby generators and transmission line materials required to link the
new Vellingara wellfield to the public electricity supply. The majority of
the tenders were received in March, 1977, evaluated in April, 1977, and order
placed in July, 1977, with materials arriving in early 1978. The civil works
contracts began in April, 1978, and the works continued through 1978 and



- 18 -
1979. The works were commissioned in October, 1979 after the Vellingara power
line had been erected by GUC staff. Standby generators were installed at
Wellingara and at the new Serrekunda Pumping Complex between December, 1979
and February, 1980 to give security of supply in view of the, then, parlous
state of GUC's electric geueration facilities at Half Die Power Station.
4.45     The details of the twelve major contracts are lioted in Annex 4.7 and
show final costs of D6.453 million against awards of D7.017 million. After
completion of all the works, including mains at Campama and Kotu, there was
Btill an unspent balance of Project F'mds sufficient to implement a main from
Serrekunda to Abuka by GUC labor at a cost of D90,OOO. Additionally, costs
amounting to D379,477 were incurred locally and financed by KfW for purchase
of vehicles, helix meters and a compressor; laying of a distribution main by
GUC labor in Kotu Township and Campama and erection of 11kV overhead trans-
mission line to Wellingara boreholes.
4.46     Bngineering costs comprised three main components:
(a)  Sxecution of the Groundwater Resource Study and the concurrent
supervision of the drilling contract (total cost D218,3B6).
(b) Detailed design, including the preparation of tender documents,
international advertising for tenders, and tender evaluation (total
cost D257,276).
(c) Supervision of construction, including progressing of materials
supply contracts, inspection and testing of materials, site
supervision of the civil contra.ctor, and liaison with the client and
financing agency (total cost D600,OOO).
4.47     Commissioning of the Project Works has resulted in doubling-the long-
term sustainable water production capacity for supply to the Banjul Area from
1.7 million gallons per day to 3.4 million gallons per day. It has also
provided the transmission and storage reservoir facilities to ensure that this
volume can be delivered to the various distribution networks of the water
supply area. However, as water requirements in the area are inevitably
increasing, it is desirable that studies and planning for the next stages of
development of the system should begin now, if they are to be implemented
before the demand exceeds the new capacity. It is already forecast that the
system demand will exceed the supply during the tourist season 19B3-84,
although certain production rehabilitation works may alleviate the problem if
the necessary plant, equipment and spares can bt financed.
4.4B     Finally, it should be noted that this was a highly successful com-
ponent, carried out in a most efficient manner and within the limits of the
available funds.
4.49     Kotu Sewerage:  The Kotu sewerage component was designed to serve the
ThA, and envisaged a sewerage system which would consist of:
(a) a collection system at each of the three tourist sites (Kotu Beach,
Point, Strand);



- 19 -
(b)  a pumping station in each site to boost sewage water; and,
(c) central stabilization ponds operating under natural aeration.
4.50     This proposal superseded the consultant's original concept of the use
of septic tanks and seepage fields for both the resort areas and support areas.
Such a procedure would have left the responsibility for and finaacing of
sewage disposal facilities with prospective hotel developers, as had been the
case with hotels built to that date. However, to avoid the provision of
inadequate facilities (as had also occurred with some existing hotels), it was
intended to use powers under the Hotels Development Ordinances to control the
location and size of facilities the developers should build.
4.51     Late in 1976, GUC instructed its water supply consultants to proceed
with the detailed design and preparation of tender documents for a sewerage
system with stabilization ponds providing for sewage disposal from all three
Kotu Resort Areas. A stabilization pond site was selected south of the
Atlantic Highway in the area between the Kotu Stream and the location of the
future (now existing) Kotu Power Station, had it surveyed and proceeded with
detailed design.
4.52     In March, 1977, the detailed design, though not yet complete, was
sufficiently advanced to enable quantities of materials (pipes, penstocks,
pumps, etc.) to be taken off and specified for tendering. These materials
were then included as separate sections of tender documents already being
compiled for materials for the Banjul Area Water Supply component. Muring
June, 1977, while in the process of compiling their evaluation report on the
tenders received for both the water supply and sewerage project materials, the
water supply consultants were asked by the Association to use the tendered
cost figures to derive an estimated cost to completion of the whole Kotu
Sewerage Project.
4.53     This estimate cane to approximately D2,800,000, compared with the
provision of D1,180,000 in the Pro-ect funds.  Work was suspended on the
design of this component (about 90% complete at that stage) pending its
further consideration by the Association. During the next 14 months, various
options were pursued in order to contain the costs, and the Association
appointed an independent consultant to,review all aspects with a view to
containing the costs and using an appropriate technological approach.
4.54     The report prepared by a British consultant considered seven
alternative sewage disposal systems, including septic tanks, package plants
and sea-outfalls. It cor.n^luded that a two-phasea sewerage system with
stabilization ponds would be the nost- cost-effective, with septic tanks
ranking second, sea-outfalls fifth, and package plants last.  Inherent in the
adoption of such a phased scheme would be the need to phase hotel development
so that hotel construction at the Kotu Beach Resort Area would not be allowed
to proceed until virtually full development had been reached at the other two
Reso,rt Areas at Kotu Strand and Kotu Point.
4.55     In October, 1978, the water supply consultants were instructed to
proceed with the detailed design and preparation of tender documents for Phase I



- 20 -
utilizing the above design criteria of the British consultant. (The latter
provided for deep ponds in order to accommodate them within the comparatively
limited area north of the Atlantic Highway, in contrast to the original design
based on shallow ponds at a different site, sized on different design
criteria.) At the end of March, 1979, the water supply consultants produced
calculations, drawings and draft tender documents for materials' procurement,
and civil construction of the Phase I scheme. After some further economies
had been made by the amendment or removal of various detailed items, the
estimated cost was now D2,500,000, of which the IDA funding had been increased
to US$750,000, equated to D1,500,000, excluding engineering costs. After
agreement between all the parties, GUC instructed their water supply
consultants in June, 1979 to finalize the design and documents based on the
stabilization pond system to serve Kotu Strand and Kotu Point only.
4.56     Bids were received in October, 1979 for materials procurement and
civil construction works, and the consultants submitted their evaluation
report the same month. In April, 1980, GUC'B water supply consultants placed
orders for pipes and pumps with the successful tenderers, as selected by the
Central Tenders Board, and to administer the execution of these materials
contracts. After extensive discussion with the Association regarding the
capacity of the lowest evaluated bidder to undertake the civil works, the
contract was awarded to a Gambian company, and the work commenced in May,
1980. Site supervision of the contract was carried out competently by PWD,
with GUC's U.K. water supply consultants acting in the role of Advisors to PWD
on any points which might arise during the construction and on which P1D might
-wish to consult them. Commissioning tests on the newly-installed pumping
equipment were carried out in February, 1982, some 21 months after the target
date at appraisal. However use of the new system could not be implemented
until all connections had been made to the hotels, including the newly
constructed Sengambia at Kotu Beach, and the start of the tourist season in
Jovember, 1982. All connection costs, including the Senegambia, were met by
Government. Two of the four ponds have been brought into operation and are
coping satisfactorily with the 1982/83 tourist capacity. The total cost of the
sewerage component at US$0.83 million is 26% over the appraisal estimate.
4.57     Following requests to GUC during execution of the sewerage contract
to second staff to participate in site supervision and for limited overseas
training for a supervisor, steps were,taken to prepare for the future
operation and maintenance of the sewerage system. One of the engineers from
the GUC Water Division closely liaised with the consultants and the
supervising staff from the Public Works Department. After the creation of the
corporation's Sewerage Division, the Division's,engineers took an active part
in the actual connection of the Senegambia Hotel to the sewerage system in 1982.
4.58     This component has suffered from long delays and indecision as to
the required design. Although the ponds are operating satisfactorily and
without odor, deploying low level technology and requiring minimal
maintenance, the Borrower questions whether the finally agreed design is too
elaborate and costly, and whether it is the best available choice. The
component was insufficiently funded because of its size and scope, and it is a
tribute to the contractor, the supervising engineer and all concerned that the
construction work was completed successfully. Despite the difficulties



- 21 _
encountered during the executicn cf this cempcnent, relaticns remained cordial
thrcughout. Due tc the slower than forecast hetel grcwth, it will cnly be
necessary tc utilize half the installed capacity ef the pcnds in the immediate
future.
C. Procurement
4.59     Precurement for the entire prcject was, in general, effected in
accordance with IDA guidelines for civil works, equipment use and technical
assistance (AfDB guidelines for the electricity ccmpcnent). ICB prccedures
were fellewed fcr the Hctel Training Scheol, rcads, electricity, water supply
and sewerage compcnents, while the remaining compcnents were subject te LCB
and selecticn in the case cf the technical assistance and appointment of
ocusultants. The quality cf equipment and materials precured was satisfac-
tcry, except for minor articles of fittings fcr the Hctel Training Schecl and
the public beach facilities. The landscaping was done by force account
provided by GUC and was cf satisfactory quality. Arrival of the irrigaticn
equipment fcr the pilet herticultural scheme was held up fcr several months
because cf a dock strike in the United Kingdcm and the subsequent misplacement
cf relevant documentation by authorities in The Gambia.
D. Compliance with Covenants
4.60     Rost of the covenants under the project were adequately fulfilled
within the time presented in the legal agreements. In terms cf the Credit
Agreement, legislaticn in building and planning laws, permitting the Physical
Planninig Office in the Ministry of Local Government and Lands Department to
exercise adequate control cver land use in The Gambia, while drafted and
presented to Cabinet, was never formally enacted into law. However, special
regulatics within the existing 1966 Building Act were prepared specifically
for the TDA and approved in December 1977. In addition, there were signifi-
cant delays in the finalization of a schedule cf ground rents for the TDA.
Altheugh a draft proposal was presented by the Prcject Management Unit in
1978, a final decision cn the tariff levels and implementation procedures was
nct agreed upcn by Government until mid-1980. Although now effective, actual
ccllecticn cf these rents from the hotels has still not yet comaenced, mainly
on acocunt cf administrative bottlenecks in the responsible Government
agencies. Sectien 4.04 of the Credit Agreement provided for the provision of
D5 millicn within three years of project commencement to cover at least half
of the lcng-term debt capital requirement to 1980,for hetel investment in the
TDA. While there had been no formal allecation cf these funds in a systematic
manner, Govez.ment did actively inject substantial funding in two of the four
new hotels constructed on the sites and provided lcan guarantees for a number
of hoteliers with options for constructicn.  In generaL Government provided
relevant Ministries and Agencies invelved in project executicn with adequate
counterpart funds, with the exception of GUC. The operating deficit of GUC
for PY1976 (D1.876 million) was covenanted to be met by Government - it toek
until 1982 tc obtain those funds and even then only as part of an offsetting
statement for another IDA project (Cr. 1187-GM).



- 22 -
4.61     The Project Agreement with GUC was breached in most ef the impertant
aspects relating te financial performance; the full extent of the non-
compliance is described in paras 6.04 tc 6.11. Beth Government and GUC itself
share responsibility for this peor perfermance.
E. Ccsts and Disbursements
4.62     Annex 4.5 indicates that total actual project costa were US$ 11.5
million, exceeding appraisal estimates cf US$ 11.3 millicn by about 2%. Of
the total of sixteen coapcnents completed, nine were effected with cost
cverruns. Five coapcnents were redefined and reduced in scope. Major cost
overruns were recorded by the Hctel Training Schcol compcnents (308%), I/
followed by the severage compcnent (227%). 1/ Ccst overruns were abscrbed by
Government itself, as it was act possible tc increase the external sources of
funding. By project conclusion, Government contribution to total costs was
26%, while external financiers accounted for 74%, broken down as follows: IDA
(17%); KfW (33%); GTZ (5%); and AfDB (19%). This varied semewhat froe
appraisal estimates in which Government was expected to provide about 19% of
project financing and cc-financiers to provide the remaining 81%.
4.63     An analysis of the cost overruns suggests four primary sources,
namely (a) domestic and international inflation, (b) exchange rate move-
ments,2/ (c) implementation delays, and (d) underestimates at appraisal.
Altheugh ever the 1976-82 period, domestic prices increased by 44% (7.3% per
annum on average), international prices by 85% (12.3% per annum on average),
the exchange rates of the dalasi relative tc the United States dollar
fluctuated widely between 1.78 and 2.30, and there were implementation delays
cf almCBt twC years, it is not pcssible tc determine which of these possible
sources was primarily respensible for cost overruns.
4.64     Annex 4.6 sets cut actual and appraisal estimates of the disbursement
profiles fcr the project. At appraisal it was estimated that 50% of total
disbursements would take place by the first 18 months of project executicn,
with the remainder ccvering the 30-month period tc project coapletion. In
actuality, only 11% of project funds was disbursed by the former period, with
the remainder covering an additional pericd of 48 months. Total disbursement
spanned a period of six years frem the first quarter of Xarch, 1977 to the end
of 1982, when the first and last withdrawal applicaticns respectively were
paid. During implementation, disbursements were highest in the fifth year
(20%) and lowest in the second.
1/   In dalasi terms.
2/   Between 1978 and 1980 in particular.



- 23 -
V. ORGAITZATIOJ AND MANAGEWEIT
A. Project Management
Project Ccordinaticn
5.01     Ultimate management responsibility fer the prcject lay with the
Tcurism liaison Board (TLB) which, as a ccnditicn of effectiveness, was to be
reccnstituted tc include bread representatien from all prcject executing
agencies.  At the cutset, the Chairman of the TLB was the Deputy Secretary-
General in the President's cffice, with the head cf the Physical PlaLaing
Divisicn in the Ministry of Lccal Government and Lands as Secretary. During
preject executicn, Bank apprcval was given fcr the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry cf Informaticn and Tourism tc chair the TLB. This move had the
advantage of making the subject Ministry more directly responsible fcr project
execution. As it turned cut, project cocrdination was also further imprcved.
In general, overall management of the project by the TLB was quite satisfac-
tory, particularly with the appointment in 1979 of the incumbent Permanent
Secretary of the NIT. While more frequent meetings could have been held, and
greater interaction at times with the Naticnal Investment Board 1/ cculd have
been possible, the TLB has played a significant role in ensuring stability and
effectiveness in project executicn.
Project Manager
5.02     Day-to-day management was effected thrcugh a small Project Management
-Unit (PiU) headed by a Project Mawnager. The project manager reported directly
to the head cf the TLB. There were two changes of manager during project
executicn.  The first project manager was an expatriate, appointed within the
six-month period agreed upon in the Credit Agreement. Initially appcinted fcr
a period of two years, his contract was firstly extended by eight mcnths in
the same capacity and subsequently by another five months as a project adviscr.
A Deputy Project Manager, a Gambian, who was at that time in charge of the
Physical Planning Department, was appointed to understudy the project manager
throughout his stay in The Gambia. Unfcrtunately, it appears that for cne
reasen cr another, this understanding -,as not effected. Very often, the
Deputy Project Manager was sc totally absorbed in his cther non-project duties
that he had very little contact with actual project executicn. This was one
of the reasens, for instance, why, at the conclusicn of the project manager's
tcur cf duty, it was necessary fcr him tc stay on and act as project advisor
to enhance the transiticn. Very shortly after assuming full responsibility
fcr project management in 1979, the new local project manager was granted
leave to fill a positicn cutside cf The Gambia with an international crganiza-
tion. Since there had not been enough time for someone to be appcinted to
understudy him, a virtually fresh individual from the tcans Office cf the
Ninistry of Finance and Trade was appointed to manage the project. While
1/   The NIB is respcnsible fcr ultimate investment decisicns invclving
the public sectcr, cf which tcurism is one of the sectors affected.



- 24 -
IDA's apprcval was nct scught ex-ante fcr this appointment, with one cf the
results being that the cfficer selected was not freed from his substantive
duties, it turned cut that the chcice was, in effect, a satisfactory cne. The
new prcject manager was very enthusiastic and moved executicn markedly thrcugh
ccmpleticn. By the time cf the departure cf the expatriate prcject manager,
eight ccmpcnents were ccmpleted and the prcject 50% disbursed ever the
30 months from effectiveness. The second Gambian prcject wmnager advanced
project executicn tc completicn within 36 mcnths after assuming reapcn-
sibility, with the remaining funds fully disbursed vithin 45 mcnths. 1/
Repcrting, Accounting and Auditing
5.03     Project accounting and reporting were consistently cf a high
standard.  While the audits tended to lag somewhat in the latter half cf the
project, cnce completed they indicated no major issues. Prom time tc time,
Gcvernment information cn local expenditure incurred was not as fortheeming as
was necessary, but there appeared te be no major problems revealed in the
audits. Management cf PMU expenses was very good. Apparent prudent control
gave rise to a 5% underrun by project completicn, despite an increase in
emcluments of the unit's staff in 1979, at Gcverzment's request and delays in
project implementaticn.
5.04     On balance, it appears that accounting management cf the project was
satisfactory. In the initial stages cf executicn, there were indicaticns of
difficulties experienced in acquiring decisicos from Gcvernment cfficials by
the PNTY, but this appeared tc decrease noticeably with advances in project
executicn. Finally, the fact that the twc local project managers were beth
remunerated at significantly lower levels than their expatriate predecessor,
despite the fact that, in both cases, they were expected to retain their
substantive duties, tended at times tc draw some resentment during execution,
although the problem was partly alleviated by salary adjustments towards the
end of project executicn.
B. Supervisicn
5.05     Borrcoer supervision of the teurism compcnents was done essentially
by the responsible subject Ministry or Department. In general, the quality of
local supervisicn cculd have been of a higher standard. This was particularly
true in the case of the PiD and the access rcads, in which the final product
suffered from a number cf defects which, it is generally accepted, cleser
supervision would have averted (para. 4.25). On the cther hand, PWD supervi-
sicn of the sewerage component was commendable and alsc cheaper than the use
cf fcreign consultants.
5.06     Supervisicn of the public beach facilities by a private architect and
the water supply component by a consulting engineer was creditable. GUC,
which both executed and supervised the landscaping, delivered vwrk of a high
1/   Except fcr a small amcunt cf US$437.72 cancelled.



- 25 -
quality. Supervisicn by the Department of Agriculture cf the pilet herticul-
tural scheme alse could have been cf a higher standard cn balance. It appears
that the Department was not fully briefed at the cutset cf the project cn the
precedures for disbursement and procurement. Supervisien at a later stage of
project executicn was, however, much improved.
5.07     Some 11 perscn-mcnths and 18 missions of supervision time was
expended by the Asscciaticn during prcject implementaticn cver the eight-year
period, averaging seven staff-weeks per year. Average mission size was
2.3 persons, with average length of missicn stay being cne week. Thrcughout
executicn, a mix cf technical and financial expertise was used, though perhaps
a greater input by scurism specialists, especially after t;;e dissolution cf
the Tcurism Projects Department of the Association in 1979, might have been
useful. Nevertheless, the Borrower is cf the view that "the constant super-
vision cf the project compcnents by Bank cfficials not cnly ensured better
performance by the project consultants and contractors, but also solved
occasional problems cf remittance both locally and overseas". 1/
C. Performance cf Cc-Financiers
AfDB and FRG (KfW)
5.08     There were criginally twc major cc-financiers in the tetal prcject,
namely The Federal Republic of Germany (KfW), fcr the water supply, and AfDB
fcr the electricity. Subsequently, the Pederal Republic of Germany (GTZ) was
invited to assist in financing the Hotel Training Schocl. While the AfDB
agreemeLt was promptly signed in early January, 1976, that cf KfW was delayed
fcr several months cn account cf administrative difficulties facing both the
KfW and the Gcvernment cf The Gambia. The financing agreement was not signed
until October, 1976. This had the effect cf delaying credit effectiveness.
Both the water and electricity components were expected tc be fully completed
in just over four years after commencement of designs in mid-1976. While the
water supply ccmpcnent was completed cn time and within budget, the elec-
tricity compcnent exceeded appraisal estimates and had the seepe of work
reduced fcr a number cf reascns. The major disruptions in the country's
electrical supplies were perhaps the principal scurce cf delays (para. 4.36).
While the processing of Power Prcject-II by AfDB slowed up implementaticn
progress cn the parallel ccmponent in the IDA project, the responsiveness cf
AfDB to the Government's 1978 request for further assistance has been
generally applauded by the Borrower. Disbursements for the electricity
component were completed by June, 1981, just under a year over appraisal
estimates. In general, it appears that execution arrangements by these two
cc-financiers were satisfactcry. Supervision by AfDB was generally limited,
and the Bank undertoek supervision of the FRG (KfW) financed component.
1/   BOrrewer's PCR, page 34; Octcber 22, 1982.



- 26 -
PRG (aTZ)
5.09     As in the case ef PRG (KfW) and AfDB, the Berrcwer has expressed
particular satisfaction with the cc-financing prcvided by The Federal Republic
cf Germany (GTZ), particularly for construction and staffing and totally
equipping the Hotel Training Schccl (paragraph 4.05). GTZ's interventicn has
generally been ccnsidered very timely. Executicn was apparently enhanced by
the promptness in the relative preessing cf disbursement requests and release
of project funds. The able and experienced prcject eccrdinatcr, whc aloc
acted as Principal to the schcol and later adviscr, was instrumental in
completing the physical wcrks and initiating cperaticns. Being based in The
Gambia itself, this officer was able to maintain consistent and regular
supervision cf executien and simultaneously prepare fcr subsequent initial
operaticn cf the instituticn.
5.10     In general, relaticns between IDA missions and the cc-financiers were
satisfactcry, with missions occasionally overlapping tc facilitate coordi-
nation and jcint discussions as was envisaged at the time of determinatien of
project financing.
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Tcurism Ccmponents
6.01     It has not been possible to evaluate the financial perfcrmance of the
tourism eomponents to the same degree as projected at appraisal. The majcr
reasen has been sustained reluctance cn the part of existing hotels tc release
infcrmation cn the operating results. A survey conducted-jcintly by IDA and
the Ministry of Information and Tourism yielded only scanty information. The
excuse often given by hotels was that their figures were "cut cf the country",
and details were simply not available. Nevertheless, based cn the limited
financial and cperational data turned in by four hotels 1/ in the survey, a
reasonably reliable picture cf the financial impact cf the project has been
cbtained. In addition, figures fcr the pilot horticultural scheme, not
available at appraisal (since the ccUponent was not included in that fcrm at
appraisal) have been ebtained. In general, it is fair to say that for the
tcurism components, despite rapidly escalating costs, occasicnal adverse
exchange movements and falling tcurist arrivals, mest hetels have had fairly
pcsitive financial returns. These returns ard expected to be sustained and
enhanced well after project clesing date, particularly given the anticipated
gradual recovery cf the tcurist trade to The Gambia.
1/   Three of which are directly located in the Tcurist Development
Area. Two cf these were actually ccnstructed during project execution.



- 27 -
6.02     At appraisal, it wras estimated that by the end cf 1982, an additicnal
1,490 beds vould have been added cn the TDA in five new hetels tc be con-
structed cn the three resort sites. Over a 15-year period, it was estimated
that with average censtructien costs per hotel bed cf D14,850 (US$8,250),
30,000 tourist arrivals annually (45,000 after 1985) and 85% and 45% bed
cocupancy respectively in high- and cff-seascns, the tcurism ccmpcnent vould
have an average minimum net internal rate cf return of 9.6%. In actuality, to
date a total of 1,320 additicnal beds (about 90% of appraisal estimate) have
been constructed en the TDA. It is not anticipated that this figure wculd
change significantly  in the near future, given Government's decisicn to
constrain additicnal new investment in the industry (paragraph 2.05). Based
on limited information acquired during the survey, average "turnkey" construc-
tion cest per bed for new hotels has ranged from D7,400 tc D22,000 (US$3,200
tc US$9,565), as cppcsed tc D14,850 anticipated at appraisal (Annex 6.1).
Hcwever, since cver the past six years tcurism traffic has not been even half
the annual level predicted at appraisal in virtually every year, occupancy
rates have averaged only about 40%, and'costs cf imports have risen signifi-
cantly over the same period, it idi highly unlikely that internal financial
returns cf the average hotel wculd parallel appraisal estimates, unless majcr
pcsitive changes occur in the near future.
6.03     The pilet herticultural scheme is expected tc break even (i.e., cover
investment and operating cests) within five years, based on financial returns
in the twc seasons 1980/81 and 1981/82 (Annex 6.2). When the project preposal
was prepared in mid-1978, total project cost fcr the Tundum site was estab-
lished at D205,000, including one year's cperational cests. Using the actual
twc-year period cf cultivaticn, investment and cperaticn costs have totalled
D216,000, exceeding earlier proposals by just over 5%.
B. Gambia Utilities Ccrperation
6.04     The appraisal forecasts and actual results for FY75 to FY80 are shovn
in the Income Statements, Scurces and Applicaticn cf Funds Statements and
Balance Sheets cf GUC in Annexes 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4 respectively. The tariff
levels and changes during the peried of project execution are listed in
Annex 6.5.; The comments in paragraphs 6.05 tc 6.12 explain some of the
salient features cf GUC's generally pocr financial performance.
6.05     Rate of Return: The prime cbjective of GUC's performance was to
achieve average annual rates of return on net fized assets of 3% in FY80
cnards fcr all its services combined in every year. Fcr GUC's electricity
and severage services, the target was individual rates of return of 8% in FY81
and thereafter. GUC has nct maintained completely separate annual acccunts
for each service, but it is evident that due tc the high.operating losses and
a failure tc generate sufficient revenues frem electricity censumers to meet
even its cperating cests in several years, the estimated rate of return is
negative for electricity in FY82. The sewerage system which has cnly become
cperative in FY83, appears tc be perfcrming relatively efficiently. For water
supply, the rate of return cbjective cf 3% is tc be met in FY85 cnwards; with
some cest reducticn and tariff adjustment, the target is achievable.



- 28 -
6.06     Tariffs and Reverues:  Electricity tariffs have risen for commercial
usage in the high band since 1974 from DO.16 to DO.42 per kWh, and for basic
domestic usage from DO.19 to DO.33 per kWh; increases of 163% and 75% respec-
tively (See Annex 6.5). For water supplies, the rates have risen from D1.50
to D3.60 per 1,000 gallons (140%) and from D1.0 to D2.0 per 1,000 gallons
(100%) for commercial and domestic usage respectively. The tariff structure
introduced in 1976 incorporates a social block and was developed by a con-
sultant financed under the project. There has not been any criticism of
inequity in the structure, apart from the operation of the maximum demand
tariff by large electricity consumers during the period 1978-1980 when GUC was
having to load shed extensively; most load shedding was being carried out
without GUC warning its consumers that it was switching off or switching on
the electricity supply. This load shedding also adversely affacted GUC's
revenue generation through lost electricity sales and some water sales. On
the basis of the poor service provided by GUC between 1977 and 1981, Govern-
ment was always reluctant to approve tariff proposals put before it, with the
result that all tariff increases since 1977 have been too little too late,
thereby compounding GUC's financial problems.
6.07     Although the Government of The Gambia gave support for what was
thought to be adequate tariff action in the earlier part of the project,
costs, especially fuel, ran ahead of forecasts and therefore of revenue
generation. In the latter part of project execution, Government became
reluctant to comprehensively address the financial problems of GUC. The
adoption of a financial recovery plan for GUC was therefore made a condition
of effectiveness for the Energy Credit (CR.1187-GH) in 1981. A feature of
this plan apart from financial restructuring and electricity tariff action was
freedom for GUC to pursue its debtors, including disconnection if necessary.
Although Government agreed the plan, GUC is still being restrained from
pursuing satisfactory debt recovery especially from the hotels, some of whom
presently owe for two years electricity and water consumption. GUC's accounts
receivable stood at D4.2 m for FY82, equivalent to 120 days average billing or
90 days if the hotel arrears of D1.2 m are excluded. The inadequate tariff
levels and poor collection performance have caused GUC continuous liquidity
problems. These features and increasing indebtedness to its own suppliers are
reflected in a current ratio of less than 1 throughout the period of project
execution which is a further indicalion of the frequent liquidity problems
experienced by GUC management.
6.08     Operating Costs:  Although GUC managed to contain its operating
expenses to an increase of ebout 120% between.1976 and 1982, its fuel costs
rose by 280% to FY82 and accounted for some 60% of GUC's total expenses in
that year. Labor costs also rose 20% above the average due to additional



- 29 -
recruitment, especially in the latter part of project execution period with
limited justification. 1/ Annex 6.6 shows how GUC'a staff has nearly doubled
from 472 employees in 1974 to 891 in 1982 with above average increases in the
transport and administration areas. GUC revalued its assets in 1976 and has
kept the values current. Depreciation has therefore continued to rise
significantly both due to annual indexing of the assets and the growth in the
assets base, which collectively has seen the value of net assets in operation
rise from D5.2 million in FY75 to D45.2 million in FY82. GUC'a revenue
coverage of operating costs has consistently fallen below par.
6.09     Debt  Coverse: Debt servicing, mainly interest payments, have also
risen substantially in recent years to nearly D1.9 million in FY82. Due to
its poor financial performance, GUC failed to satisfy the revenue coverage of
1.5 times its debt servicing, whether taken on total debt service or interest
payments alone.
6.10     Internal Cash Generation:  At the time of appraisal it was intended
that GUC would provide 26% of its total capital investment requirements out of
internally generated funds. GUC did not generate sufficient funds to make any
contribution towards the project. The Government was obliged to provide the
entire counterpart funds for the total capital investment program of GUC
during this period.
6.11     Accounts and Audit:  GUC's annual audited accounts were covenanted to
be submitted to the Bank within 4 months of the end of each fiscal year. This
target has not been met in any year, delays having averaged between 4 and
8 months. However, the accounts, when presented, are comprehensive and
supported by substantial annexes relating to financial and physical data. The
accounts have been audited by the same firm of international accountants
located in Banjul throughout the period. There were no qualifications, except
the highlighting of the problem of obtaining confirmations from the Accountant
General of the outstanding balances on loan accounts with Government - a
reflection of the problems of accounting at the Government level.
6.12     Units Produced/Sold.  The number of electricity units generated and
sold and the volume of water produced and sold between 1975 and 1982 are set
out in Annexes 6.7 to 6.10. For Banjul, which encompasses the project area,
there are wide discrepancies between appraisal forecasts and actual figures.
These are primarily due to the breakdown in the electricity system between
1977 and 1980, the slower rate of project implementation, and the failure of
GUC to address its electrical line losses and unaccounted-for water margins,
all of which adversely affected GUC's revenue base (para. 6.06) and its
operating costs (para. 6.08).
1/   The sharp increase in staffing between 1974 and 1982 did however
occur during a period of almost a doubling of consumption. Government
restrictions on staff layoffs also curtailed the GUC's freedom to fully
operate on a commercial basis. In addition, it could be mentioned that
operating costs include transportation costs that are heavily affected by
the wide geographical location of a nuxgber of small generating stations
and generating sets, requiring constant servIcing.



-30-
VII. ECONOMIC PEEPORNANCE
A. Rate of Return
7.01     The same constraints identified abcve fcr the financial perfermance
have affected analysis of the economic effectiveness cf the tourism com-
penents. At appraisal, it vas prejected that the tcurism compcnents vould
have a net ERR of 12.1% in the base seenaric over a 30-year period. Benefits
were calculated on the basis cf average daily expenditure cf D66 per visitcr,
expected average annual arrivals ef 30,000 up tc 1985 and 45,000 thereafter,
and total capital costs cf D53.4 millicn, being the costs of infrastructure
(D6.8 millicn), improvements tc the runway at Yundum airport (D9 million), and
hotels and other superstructure (D37.6 millicn). Operating costs cf the Hotel
Training Schocl and road maintenance costs had alsc been taken intc account.
7.02     Based cn the survey, investment costs fcr the four new hotels con-
structed (superstructure) on the TDA under the prcject, tetalled apprcximately
D49.5 millicn.  Allcwable infrastructure coats 1/ are approximated at
D8.8 millicn, while actual costs cf ti's runway were DlO millicn, 27% higher
than anticipated at appraisal. 2/ Aunex 6.1 indicates that most hotels
estimated an average per diem i.ctIL expenditure cf abcut D85 presently.  If
adjustments are made for miseellanecus expenditures, such as purchases outside
of the hctel, a total daily expenditure cf D100 per tcurist could be con-
sidered realistic. 3/ Operating ecosts cf the Hctel Training Schcol and road
maintenance ccats fer the Ketu rescrt area, but nct grcss public utility
revenues, have also been included. Transit arrivals are expected to rise
annually from 22,000 in 1982/83 to 30,000 by 1986/87 and tc level off there-
after. Labor and fcreign exchange have not been shadow-priced, and no
residual value has been assumed in year 30.
7.03     Applying these streams of benefits and costs cver 30 years, a pCsi-
tive internal econemic rate cf return of just under 6% Wam been obtained. It
is nct surprising that this rate cf return fer the tcurism cemponents is less
than estimated at appraisal, given the significant decline in actual relative
tc anticipated tcurism arrivals, significant cest cverruns cn infrastructure
and superstructure cests, and, to some extent, inflatic;-fuelled increases in
cperating cests for the typical hotels. As a result, while the trend in
tourist arrivals is likely tc change somewhat in the nec.': future based on the
existing 1982/83 season, it is hardly likely that tcurist arrivals would
increase cr coats reduced on a sustained encugh basis by 20% fcr the tcurism
1/   See Annex 7.1 fcr details and assumpticos cf this item and rest cf
economic analysis.
2/   In dalasi terms.
3/   Given the average rate cf inflation cf about 6.5% p.a. over the past
six years in The Gambia, and appraisal estimates cf D66 per visitor in
1976, this figure cf D100 appears realistic.



- 31 -
compcnent ci the preject to atzain the appraisal rate ef return of 12.1% over
the 30-year peried. Nevertheless, the industzy as a whole is expected to
centinue to demonstrate mcdest viability, especiall  if Government relent-
lessly pursues its prepcsed pclicy cf ccueclidati   cver the next few years.
B. Balance cf Payments' Effects
7.04     While no reliable figures are currently available in The Gambia, it
is dcubtful whether, as a result of this project, there has been a net inflow
of the fcreign exchange earnings over the project execution period. Given the
formative and evcluticnary stage cf the country's industry over the 1976-82
period, it is highly likely that cutflows resulting from the significant
import content of operating costs, debt service on cffshert hotel loans, and
ether infrastructure and superstracture investment costs would exceed possible
inflows mainly from tourist expenditure. As was substantiated by the secic-
economic study of tcurism in The Gambia financed under the project, the high
incidence of charter arrivals results in sizeable tcurist expenditure, being
paid for as a package cutside of the ccuntry with large vclumes of local
currency borrowing in The Gambia by hotels tc finance domestic expenditure.
In addition, given the heavy impert content cf the industry, net inflcos have
tended act to be significant. Further, weak exchaage contrcl and other insti-
tuticnal constraints affecting the country are believed tc have contributed tc
majcr leakages, resulting in net deficit fcreign exchange earnings' position
frcm tourism. Government has plugged some cf these leepheles and has initiated
measures tc tap a more significant amount cf pctential benefits derivable from
the tourist industry. These include: (a) stricter excbange control monitor-
ing at points of entry and departure into and from Tkc- Gambia; (b) strength-
ening of implementaticn capacity cf the exchange control department cf the
Central Bank and more adequate recovering cf tourism sector data; (c) in-
creased effcrt tc ensure a larger share cf payment fcr tourist packages
remitted tc The Gambia; and (d) stricter contrcl over local currency-borrowing
by hoteliers for investment purposes.
-                         C. Budgetary Effects
7.05     As is the case in the neasuremenm  cf external receipts and outflows
from tourism, no reliable fiscal figures are available for the sector as a
whole. Annex 7.2, however, indicates that over the past six years, just under
D2 million has been generated from the hotel bed tax, which was levied mainly
as a result cf the project. In additicn, cver DO.7. million has been ccllected
in airport departure taxes, a significant porticn of which wculd result from
tourist traffic. It is expected that incremental revenues from ground rents,
income and business taxes, casino levies and cther fiscal charges are likely
to be substantial, especially as the investments made under the project execu-
ticn peried mature in fcrthceming years. Najor incremental tourism related
costs to be financed from Government budget are likely to be for maintenance
of the Hotel Training Schcol and the infrastructure works themselves,
especially roads. Given a realistic approach tc tariffs by Government, other
operating costs for public utilities and the pilet herticultural scheme should
be self-financing to a very large extent, and would therefore nct present any



- 32 -
unusual incremental finamcial demands cn the public treasury.
D. Emplcyment Effects
7.06     Mainly because of the general slower rate of growth in the tourism
industry in recent yars, employment perfcrmance since project cummencement
has not been as optimistic as anticipated at appraisal. D! rect employment as
a result of the project rose from 110 in 1976 te just under 800 in 1982 (com-
pared with alacst 1,600 expected at appraisal). About one-third cf these
employees are permanent, with the remainder seasonal. At project closing,
while tctal employment expatriate staff represented only 6%, this category of
staff, nevertheless, filled over 90% of the available managerial slots in the
hotels. At appraisal, it was estimated that emplcyment of 0.6 person per bed
wculd be created, while the actual figure was 0.5. Although it is not
possible to estimate indirect employment, it is evident that construction,
handicrafts, agriculture, transpertatica, and other services have accounted
for a number of additional jobs, even above the 900 anticipated at appraisal.
VIII. SOCIAL AID INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
8.01     There is little doubt that the project as a whole has had a major
impact en the social and institutional life in The Gambia. The infrastructure
provided by the project has made a majcr contributicn to the opening up of a
new residential site in the Kotu area, while the water supply, and electricity
facilities have already begun and will centinue tc serve densely populated
neighboring regions to a very large extent. Increased and new property values
to be brought on to the valuaticn rolls of the Kanifing Urban District Ccuncil
are likely to increase municipal revenues and ultimately enhance the level cf
services provided by this municipality. The pilot horticultural scheme has
provided a demonstrattin cf the feasibility cf doing this type of agricultural
venture, and should be replicated in other areas throughout The Gambia. While
there were definitely adverse effects arising from the major thrust in tourism
that the project has precipitated, the effcrts made by Government through the
media, at scheols, and in cther fcra to diffuse-the negative aspects could be
counted a success.
8.02     Over and beyond the "people effects", the project has also put into
place a number of new institutions and upgraded weak ones in the sector. The
Tcurism Liaison Bcard has acquired valuable informaticn on the sector and is
now in a strcnger position tc plan for future undertakings. Through the
secic-economic study and a related tcurism marketing study a number of
institutional constraints facing the industry in The Gambia te g., the need to
develop more destination facilities) have been highli.ghted. A stronger
Department of Tourism could now probably address such issues. A Gaming Unit
has been set up within the Customs and Excise Department for the purpose of
ccllecting fees from the casino at the TDA. Similarly, a new division of
sewerage is being installed at GUC tc maintain and operate the project
component and future investments in this area. The Hotel Training School is,
hcwever, perhaps the single mest important institutional development arising



- 33 -
cut of this project. A basis has new been laid fcr the systematic training
and development cf lccal rescurces for the hotel industry. Already signs ef
improved "product" from the scheol have become evident in the hetels,
especially the Atlantic Hotel in Banjul city. There are long range plans tc
upgrade the facilities at the Training Schcol tc provide training in corperate
management tc permit the indigenizatica of the management cadres of the hotels
in the country.
8.03     let at ancther level it might be argued that in a way the project has
nct been as institutionally effective as it could be. In fact, the Borrover
does have definite and firm views on this (see Annex 8.1 for details).
Because the preject management unit was detached to a large extent from the
subject Ministry (MIT), the benefit of the training arising frem t1e preject
in this respect is in a sense reduced tc the sectcr. Ideally, day-tc-day
project cperaticns might have been handled in the MIT, even if a change was
made midstream in project execution, if the MIT instituticn was weak at
appraisal. In addition, the fact that by far the bulk of the investment in
the hotels is foreign-owned cannot be escaped.  The chances of a trickle-down
and real transfer of ccmpetent managerial skills are remote in such a situa-
ticn, unless extremely clesely monitored. The tremendous delays in the
production of investment and tcurism promotion literature have taken their
toll and are in some measure indicative of some of the constraints facing the
KIT and the overall level of development cf the industry.
8.04     The apparent relative inactivity or inability of Gcvernment to take
contrel of the reporting and information flow system from the hetels, as
evidenced by the latter's non-cooperation in the PCR exercise, must be some
source of concern in an emerging industry and should be addressed as a matter
of instituticnal policy and reform in the near future. The project could have
done more, it might be argued, in enhancing the capability fcr undertaking
such functicns.
8.05     A certain measure of the pcst implementation success of the water
supply operations of GUC can be attributed to the presence cf a strcng tech-
nical assistance team in the water supply division. Your people financed by
KfW were seconded tc GUC by the engineering consultants to assist with water
supply preduction and distributicn operations after commissioning.
8.06     Nc technical assistance was envisaged by the project for the elec-
tricity divisicn of GUC, but after the problems at Half Die in 1977 and 1978
(see para. 4.37) the Asseciation was asked for assistance. It was agreed that
the funds available from the heavy fuel conversion compcnent could be used
partly fcr financing the recruitment cf 4 mechanic/fitters fcr perieds cf 12
to 18 months. Although all were technically competent, some secial aspects
marred their performance. It was generally agreed that the remuneration
package was pitched too low in crder tc attract techniq#l assistance of the
right caliber.
8.07     The twC most significant technical assistance appointments were those
cf the IDA financed Assistant Managing Director (1980-82) and the EfW financed
Accounting Adviscr (1978 an; cngoing). The latter was appointed to assist GUC
in impreving its accounting, reperting, and financial management. His time
has been very much shared between this activity and general management and in



- 34 -
assisting in reselving the many crises facing GUC.
8.08     The arrival cf the Assistant Nanaging Directcr, after wcrldwide
recruitment, signalled the mevement cf GUC upstream in its many facets.  He
was unrelenting in his pursuit o:f achieving soluticns tc GUC's acst pressing
problems and restoring the respective respcnsibilities of Government and
GUC. The blurring of respcnsibilities by gcvernment interventicn vas a majcr
factcr in GUC's malaise at that time.  The Assistant Managing Directer made a
substantial centributicn to GUC'B effectiveness, especially as Acting Managing
Directcr during his last 6 months in effice, and laid the foundation for the
technical assistance nev being provided by GTZ, since the Government decided
to remcve 3 of the top 4 GUC managerial personnel from effice.
8.09     In snmmary, it can be said that technical assistance tc GUC under the
project was successful in keeping GUC operaticnal but failed tc improve the
longer lasting institutional capability of GUC. It failed because GUC did not
assign and recruit qualified counterpart staff tc work with them; training was
not formalized within GUC. Therefore, any training provided by the technical
assistance was 'ad hoc', when the technical assistance could have provided
substantial input under a structured training program. Additionally, the lack
of spare parts and equipment to carry cut even simple imprevements was a
severe ccnstraint cn the perfcrmance of the technical assistance perscnnel.
The lack of tariff action by Government, and therefore cf revenues in GUC, was
a major contributor to the lack of spare parts and inadequate benefits from
the technical assistance expenditures.
-   IX.  ISSUES, OPPORTUNITIES A)D BENEFITS IN RETROSPECT
9.01     Bcth the Borrower and the Association are of the view that the
project has been cf significant value and impact to the development cf the
Tourisn sectcr and tc a lesser extent the national econony at large.  During
project execution a number of specific issues arose, the resclutilon cf which
and the experience thereby gained should form the basis for positive future
opportunities and benefits in similar secteral ventures.  In particular, the
fellowing shculd be noted:
(a)  While, as already discussed, the project has undcubtedly provided a
wcrkable and replicable infrastructure cn which further effcrts in
the sector cculd be built, the Borrower is ef the view that incre-
mental benefits to The Gambia arising from the Tcurist industry could
only be enhanced with increased local participaticn in the management
cf hetels.  In addition, a number of institutional arrangements
(e.g., the National Investment Board) designed to ensure such
potential benefits are derived, have nct fullX played the role-
envisaged and should be reviewed and strengthened.
(b)  In specialized projects of this nature the cheice cf consultancy and
technical assistance cculd be cracial in the cptimizaticn cf the
quality cf the output. The tcurism sectcr does require specific
technical know-how which is hardly substitutable or generalizable.



- 35 -
This was particularly evident in the secic-economic study in which
the final product apparently suffered because ef relative
inexperience cf the tcurism sectcr cf scme of the technical
assistance used.
(c) Substantial savings accrue to Gcvernment if an apprcpriate blend cf
lccal and foreign technical expertise could be utilised in executicn
and supervision, as was demenstrated by the York perfcrmed by the
Public Works Department in the case of the sewerage component.
(d) The Borrower might have benefitted and execution prcgress enhanced if
a general mid-implementation review of the project had been
undertaken. This might have facilitated minor redefinition and
adjustments to the project resulting in improved benefits and
effectiveness.
(e) Preject management is a critical variable in efficient executicn.
Implementation and project impact cculd be significantly improved if
full-time attention could be affcrded to this activity. While the
twc local project managers did a satisfactory jcb, at times they
appeared to be under intense personal strain because of alternative
_cnflicting official responsibilities.
(f) While the project did provide an effective and useful institutional
mecasnism for enhancing the operational skills if Gambian employees
in the tcurist sector (Hctel Training Scheol), there was, in the
Bcrrower's opinion, a striking design omission in the lack of
provisen fcr any managerial training for naticnals in the industry.
As a result, at the mcment less than 10% of total management staff in
the hotels are Gambians. Government recognizes that the soluticn to
this problem is of a leng-term nature but is, nevertheless, cf the
view that failure to address it in the near future could have far-
reaching adverse effects on the future evolution of the industry. It
has begun to redress this situation through 'inter alia' increased
spcnsorship for lecals tc pursue managerial training abroad.
X. CONCLUSIONS
10.01    As the first major investment in the tourism sectcr in The Gambia,
the Infrastructure and Tcurism Project has put into place the primary infra-
structure for cne of the country's most important industries. However, while
the ztege has noe been set for the continued evclution cf the tourism sector,
a conscicus policy of consolidation must be introduced and sustained if the
industry's continued viability is to be assured.  Major efforts vould need to
be directed at:
(a) adequately maintaining the investments already sunk;
(b) intensifying promotion efforts;
(c) enhancing on-grcund attractions in the ccuntry; and,



- 36 -
(d) ensuring that institutional arrangements fer securing maximum foreign
exchange benefits frem the industry are strengthened (para. 7.04).
At a time when The Gambia's ability to remain internatienally competitive and
efficient in tourism is likely te be severely tested cn acocunt of werldwide
sectoral stagnatien, early and systematic adepticn ef these measures cannet be
cveremphasized.
10.02    While the likelihood ef further direct intervention in the seetcr by
the Bank is remote, continued indirect assistance threugh seetor-specific
projects could ensure that the basic infrastructure installed under the
projeet is both maintained and expanded as ecenomic circumstances permit.
Government vould need tc continually monitor develcpments in the sector,
especially given an increasingly stringent naticnal economic environment and
only modest prespects fcr a major turn-around cf the industry internationally
in the near future.



THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
AIR-CHARTER TOURIST ARRIVALS TO THE GAMBIA BY MONTH (1974/75-1980/81)
July  August  September  October November Deoember January February Maroh  April  My   June  TOTAL
1974/75    -       -       -         -8- --9817    37442 3- 372  3,110    3,312 l7482  331                 18,651
1975/76    -      -        -         949    3.205    3,727    4,l80   3,448    3,355  2,252                21,1l16
1976/77    -      -        -         662    2,870    3,669    3,774   3,424    3,655  1,451                19,505
1977/78    -      -        -         524    2,494    3,213    2,672   2,672        300    815              15,769
1978/79    -      -        -        641    4,613    4,701    4,333   4,333    4,578  2,270   57   65   25,907
1979/80   180    133      69         575    3,145    4,517    4,087   4,087    3,927  2,189    -    -   23,847
1980/81    -       -       -          14    1,786    3,229    3,569   3,569    3,616  2,699   65           19,209
Source:  Central Statistics Department
June 1983
w



TII  aANBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISK PROJECT
AIR CHARTER TOURISTS CLASSIFIED BY LENGTH OF STAY
YEAR               ONE WEEK                 TWO VREKS              THREE WERES          FOUR VIEKS
1973/74             7,400                    11,707                   896                  25
1974/75             6,660                    10,867                 1,044                  80
1975/76             8,115                   12,013                    914                  74
1976/77             8,283                   10,180                    977                  65
1977/78              5,130                   9,477                  1,041                 121
1978/79             9,014                   14,084                  2,535                 274
1979/80             9,468                   11,905                  2,134                 315
1980/81             6,149                   12,290                    519                 251
198/82             4,331                    7,591                  1,177                 232
TOTAM:              64,550                  r00014                 11,237               1,437
Source: Ministry of Information and Tourism.
Nr



THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
GAMBIA HOTEL TRAINING SCHOOL
ENROLLMENTS / GRADUATES (1977-1982)
OLD SCHOOL                                    NEW SCHOOL (PROJECT)
1977           1978            1979           1980           1981            1982
Year/section  Enrol. Grad.  Enrol. Grad.  Enrol. Grad.  Enrol. Grad.  Enrol. Grad.  Enrol. Grad.
Cookery        t2              9 9    15      -       20      12     14      -       15     10
Pastry
Restaurant    12       -       -       7      15      -      20      10      10      -      13      10
and Bar
Front Office  12       -      -       ll      10      -       12      8      -      -       12      10                  w
Reception                                                                                                                '
Housekeeping  12       -      -       l       16      -      20      15      10      17     12      10
Laundry
TOTAL          48      _       _      38      56      _      72      45      34      17     52      40
Source: Hotel Training School
June 1983



TIlE GAMBIA
INRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND CONSUMP ION
rIuW  IOrTICUlthtiiAL 51310m
(iggoIlui - lgai,nz)
THII 19808111  DPV IIAWN                                             TOE 1981/82 CAT SCASON
C I 0 p 1                           t         Atual                    Amiunt                                viola                    AmoIu        To.tal
Platintid  A~tuel    Wild Pr..   Welsiat  b.ti.eJ    Plme       t        From Arva    lllht        Ealized    coasavas,
Area  From A,.,  Recteresto                            m~~~~~~arketed
Ilectaffeae  ilaciarege  Area  ~ Fr.. Area   ectarsage   ecteteei~(Doe-Apr)                 Frau sure.  Upr Fa es* 
(kg)        (kg)      (OI4ala2                                (the)        (kg)      (Dalesl)   (DIaelI)
lit.                      0.20         0.1         621.00       621.00   1,663.00       0.20         0.55         464.50      464.50       929.0        -
V:Ater M*ln                0.e0         0.60      6,490.00      U,I,3S.00   4,242.00      0.60         0.60      4,514.50    3,186.30    ,l8.9323        194.0O
tww.u                      0.20        0.15       4,154.15      *,056.25   3,243.50       0.20        0.20       3,925.1s    1,09.00    7,509.15    1,41.00
dainw                      0.20        0.1         350.00        S19.00     191.00       0.40       0GA         2,100.15    2,616.15    4.011.6)         36.00
C'srroats                  0.20         0.15      3,221.50      1.135.00   3,414.15       0.40         0.40      1,210.50    6,126.00    6,126.00    1.152.10
I at I uce                 0.20        0.5 4I,253.40            1,4)1.10     618.50       0.20         0.20      1,491.14    1,333.26       509.S1S       12.00
Sltter Tomato              0.20        0.15       1,145.50      1,743.00     052.00       0.20         0.35      5,T92.25    4,911.11    3,351 IS        6ZZ.19
Cabbalta                   0.20         0.15      4,141.50      6,141.50   3,941.49       0.20         0.20      3,319.00    2,184.0    21,714.50 |   5.t;  0
lh Iuns                    1.60        1.60     U1,425.00    30,91S.00  12,0S0.00        2.00         0.10      1,245.25    1,165.25    1,591.31 0      I26.
lint Pepper                 _            _           _-                        -          0.10         0.05s        93.50        s.50         11.15  *  U1.00
S.ect Pepper                -            -           _             _                      0.10        0.15       1,113.15       7V..1s    1,121.6)       1t.0
TOtALS                     4.00         3.25     S9,I51.35   54,S31.35   1, 2124          4.40         5.0      31,200.53   38.62416   29,921.51   ___@
Souirce:  Dept. of Agriculture.
June 1983
4



INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
EUry ImIRr3%LTUtIAL W.11VI3
VEGETASjjACS98,4011 BY HOTE.LS, RFSTAUIANTjII .-D 0JENAUZT3
le/dtIh anil 1981112
(KItlau5ras)
TOMITO       CASBACI       IHEUXI       ISBTIUC       CARI0TS       PUANS       PUPPEA         SKA          ITTER       ONioNiS       TOTAlS5
IhAnS                                                            TOlIATO
1960/ 1911/ 1980/ 1981/ 19 I0/ 1951/ 1900/ 19el1 198_1  1911/ 1980/ 19e1/ 1930/ 19111/ log0/ 18I/ 19SO,  1961/ 1 0                  1961 I960/ 1951,
* 1 62    Al    62    St    *2    81    62    I1    62              31    62    I1    $2    61    82    41    62    I1    at           1    I2
Yonu Stiand Hotol                              110    98    -       -    101   120   210    -         90    39    40    2S                                  -            -      -    5_3   293
Isopic lungalS 4doteI                           -      -      90           G S    -                                s                    -                   -     -      -      -    3111
sunpAL.   dachi  Hulutol                       411    -       -                  _ . _    _          145    -    110    -              .-                         -      -      - U_6        -
crAo Ssprs.AgkaI                           -    i5s     - _     1    -    190    40    66    -    151    20    64    .            _      .     ,             45    -      -      6_  8152
Uhl,grs bachb llotel                           -      35   115    _    119    11   120    -    120    5t    90    27                                             -      -      -    s502   16
Teopic 11410t   '                               -      -                   _      _     _      _      _      _     _       4    .       _     _      _      _     -      -      _     -       4
AtlangIc Hot*l                                 360    -       .            -     120   140           20   S         o   227    .        5                                       _    340   99)
-.p
algjoniIotel               _  _  .  _  _  _  _  _  .  .  .                                                                 4 4      .      .  _  _  .  .  . .
alajrd Ieltal                                   _      14    _      _    639   602                   I _     210  2a6   I60   300    _  32    _      _      _     .      .      .   1069   i1
Danjul lotel                                    _       6    _      _      .      _      .     .      _      10           55                                -                          - _3
rUnlel  id from shop                            _      _      _     _      _      _      20    _      -       -    60    -       _                                                    so    -
t  Plvi  Naata aRnd Restauaat                   5O    -       30                         22           30    -                                  _ _ _133    -
TOTALS                                         131 26.  225    I1   t2t  1103   542    86   146  1052    so0  508    -                         9            is1   45    -           4086 f3291
Source: Dept. of Agricutlture.
June 1983



THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
HOTEL BED OCCUPANCY RATES (ALL HOTELS) (1976/77 - 1981/82)
Year     July    Aug.    Sept.   Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Jan.    Feb.    March   April   May             June     TOTAL
1975/76   25.75   13.94   14.05   15.43   66.71   86.70   97.87   95.17   82.79   57.73   12.16   12.1             72.17
1976/77   14.35   14.63   14.89   27.46   51.00   66.55   74.91   75.39   69.59   48.21   27.51   21.50    55.0
1977/78   26.81   23.54   21.42   15.78   58.16   65.30   66.6    51.14   68.60   40.73   19.89   13.48    39.3
1978/79   21.21   15.79   15.18   30.28   75.87   90.08   93.81   89.86   83.87   58.0    11.48   10.91    49.7
1979/80   14.9    14.5    13.4    14.4    52.9    77.8    85.6    76.2    71.4    52.1    10.2    12.1             45.2
1980/81   10.4    11.2    11.7    10.8    38.5    52.3    64.9    59.9    49.4    48.4    12.1    12.5             35.1    $
1981/82   17.7      7.7    21.1    10.8    42.8    58.6    59.3    57.7    52.4    28.5    11.8    14.0            40.00
SOURCE; Minietry of Information and Tourism.
June 1983



- 43 -
Annex 4-4(b)
THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF HOTEL BEDS
BY AREA
YEAR               BANJUL          TOURISM DEVELOPMENT    AREA TOTAL GAMBIA 1/
1970i71             404             -                     1.0
1971/72             645                                   N.0
1972/73             645                                   17.0
1973/74             691             -                     N.0.
1974/75             684             340                   1.0.
1975/76             625             340                   N.0.
1976/77             703             340                   1997
1977/78             608            430                    2147
1978/79             792            430                    2128
1979/80             830            430                    2291
1980/81            1200             926                   3340 (EST.)
1981/82            1200            1550                   3956
Source:  1/  Including other hotels in the Kombo-St.Mary area outside the
TDA and up country.
N.0. = Not obtained.
Ministry of Information and Tourism
June 1983



-44 -
Annex 4-4(c)
THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
NO. OF HOTEL BOOMS BY HOTELS:
WITHIN TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AREA
Hotel              76/77  76/77   77/78      78/79   79/81     80/81   81/82
Kotu Stand          -      -        -         -       90         90       90
Bangalow Beach     220    220      220       220     224        224      224
Bakotu              -      72       72        72     120        120      120
Kombo Beach                -        -         -       -          -       500
Senegambia          -      -        -         -       -          -       616
TOTAL              220    292      292       292     434       434      1550
Source: Ministry of Information and Tourism
June 1983



;                              ~~~~~~~~~45
-                                        -45-t 4
ANNEX 4-5
THE GAJBIA
D         ERASTRM     AmD TOURISN PROJECT
Alalysis of Forecast Appraisal and Actual Project Costs
Dalas  ('OOOs)            US$ ('0008) 3
CO WPOENT                             i_-
___________ ________________   ppraisal    ActuallY  Appraisal.:':V   Actal
vJcer Supply                                4,360       7,818        2,422       3,890
Electricity                                 3,380       4.568       1,878        2,273
Heavy Fuel Adaptation                         962          40          535          20
Telecommunications                            195         259         108          129
Roads                                       1,709       3,393          949       1,688
Sewerage                                      780       2,851         433        1,418
Solid Vaste Disposal; Beach Cleaning           43         108          24           54
Public Beach Facilities; ShoppIug Areas       195         187         108           93
H2otel TraIning School                        406       1,853         226          922
Food Storage and Marketing                    895          -          497           _
Pilot Vegetable Growing Scheme                -           209         -            104
Invcestment and Tourism Promotion           200         182         111           91
Studies- nzd TechnicaL Assistance             640       1.686      .  356          839
Total Base Costs                           14,315                   7,953
Physical Iucrease ClOZ)                     1,630                     905
Price lncrease (30)                        4,447                   2,471
Sub-total                   6,077                    3,376
TOTAL COST                                 20,392   i 23,677       11.329   ! 11,521
11  Including contingencies.
2/  At USSi - Dl.80.
3/  LTsiug average rare of exchange over 1976/77 - 1981/82 period of
USSI - D2.01-
4/  Socio-economic study and Alternative Fuel study.
Source: Project YManagement Unit and PCR mission compuratons.



- 46 -
Annex 4-6
THE GANBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF ACTUAL AND APPRAISAL DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
Number   Quarterly Endings   Appr.est. App. est. Actual.          Actual
Quarterly  Cumulative Quarterly    Cumulative
I        December 31, 1976    47           47        208           208
II       March 31, 1977        63         110         32           240
III      June 30, 1977        284         394         65           305
IV       September 30, 1977  303          697         61           366
V        December 31, 1977   380         1077          3           369
VI       March 31, 1978       395        1472         58           427
VII      June 30, 1978        454        1926        418           845
VIII    September 30, 1978  470          2396        397          1242
IX       December 31, 1978   400         2796        220          1462
x        March 31, 1979       383         179        606          2068
xI       June 30, 1979        176        3355         54          2122
XII      September 30, 1979  133         3488         18          2140
XIII     December 31, 1979   120         3608         -            -
XIV      March 31, 1980       104        3712        464          2604
XV       June 30, 1980         85        3797        240          2844
XVI      SepLember 30, 1980   75         3872
XVII     December 31, 1980   128         4000        564          3408 -
XVIII    March 31, 1981         -          -          -            -
XX       Sept. 30, 1981         -          -           -            -
XXI      December 31, 1981      -          -         372  -       3780  -
XXII     March 31, 1982         -          -           -            -
XXIII    June 30, 1982          -          -           -            -
XXIV     September 30, 1982    -           -         118          3898
XXV      December 31, 1982      -         102        4000           -
Source:  Bank Project Files.
June 1983



- 47 -
Annex 4-.7
THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
Water Supply Component Contracts
Contract 1/                                        Award      Final Cost
(Dalasis)   (Dalasis)
No.1 Drilling                                         1,967,364   1,756,124
No. 2A Pipes                                            898,962   843,758
No. 2B Pipes                                            400,000   391,062
No. 3 Valves                                             89,638   88,828
No. 4 Tanks                                             471,324   434,854
No. 5 High Lift Pumps                                   401,044   389,670
No. 6 Borehole Pumps                                    257,652   251,769
No. 7 Treatment Equipnent                                47,140- 45,878
No. 8 Civil Construction                              2,055,664   1,833,616
Standby Generators                                      164,000   158,080
Power Line Materials                                     72,478   76,370
Supplementary                                           192,295   192,295
Totals                                        7,017,561   6,453,304
1/ Apart from Contract No. 8 which was awarded to a Senegalese
firm, all contracts werc avarded to British firms.
Source: PCR misslon compilation
June 1983



TIlE CAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE ANM TOURISK PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANI) OPEgRATIONAIL INDICATORS OF SUEECTED ROTELS IN THlE GkIBIAS1
(ont eR4 Naiby tee tairtat  ev.loyna Arce
(15191/0 od4 1910141)
_Jelarehl         1tu"i4W laneb            5545W           tot.ai4v4 YUts1
bns i8   ___ ./1        O/ i921   .990    1.93/II  1 IS  9/bO. 19UO0/li    1919114   l910/al
Total 1*roa  1wvenM4s                        S mill         3.69       3.09        5.23      1.49       11M.0.    0.a1g         0.*       0.44
Total Casts                                  D et11.        )3.3       13.7        1.23      1049       11.0.     0.141        0.39       0.31
Oguma Psoili                                 D mlii         0.55        .          0.14      0.20       11.0.     (045*)       0.U4       0.0J
lCa  taxes pa                                Dm111          0.3         -         0.21       0.12       mo0o ,                  _
_~~~~~ -   -  -  - -  --____.__ -
Wet FVault                                   o 111          0.33      (0.36)      0.43       0.0        I.0.      (0,45)       0.4        0.09
Total LOUasrulloe Cota                     O.111             .         11.0.       1.00      1.66       1.40      1.40         1.10   : ll9
Svsi~sr at beds                               s ab          $s0       540         231       .221       t20        120            94 00 90
C41.69FACCIUM COk Vr hOd 04                    D                                   1.40      1.40      11.01     11.41        32.06      C2.00
CruJa Ratusa per bed L                          3            .          *          0.24      0.01        .         *           0.01       0,%
CruJe pay-bac. P*1e 4 eu op.  flR           years                                 1i3                   -         ,            14         33
Cludd * asne pe  J.*4redtr
pot vi iter   r.      eacr                                 15         9           9        109         .         41          050       0100
f h on uo      Oclcel                                 14         40        34         34           40         0
l c siglo                                             44sDaleel  _  _  40  SO  44     44           40        40
4 o   ita.on (Co::e       Dlol             .          _           4         45                                4   0      40
(S"111alami-                           -do                   35         -                      30         30
NushuaP  N op r v'y*                                        215       2*0          103        91         34         24          53         46
lo.lluiea per bud                                          0.53    0.46           0.45    C.43    0.28    0.22              0.59        0.51
Aveqra.to gved 4mceciuncy                      3   '         _                      43        11,        .         _            41         43
Covwretsmng rquity             I                                        - !  Y  _  _  _       _
NanCa.llec     equity                          I _                      -          100       100          o0
Pfivate masuller  qity                        330 3_ '_.
NMflI       *ae          4 sn late alid innluraion subilat4e1 to PCI murvey uqJarsub.l by  'letmils  of IfmormIi.4 ald Teurtla,
b    sjara IIutel ts msar eCusilly In the tourist DevelopmeA t Arsa. attllwh i very elee..
c, Not lirulit per bad divided by CeplILI lmveatn.RL Colst Pe  bad.
4d   Adragd coanutructiun caus  Var bed divided by nct Iatso. ote 4e4  isisclulde deprcaccrlso).
*   ToJil Srul  revenude divided by twser of Ieoi  divided by a  Iitte.a1l  shre of leal teurtll arrivals par  eera. based
en similar proparlceage Veletiooehip of "user .1 b4ad  'of 1s1tw   4bateso *       a preparti. of totl bed4 eIpJtig 4
The t;.bla at t1me.
1. At pock pst#od4.
Sotircu:    ICR          missioll eonIputations.



TIll GANSIA
TOURISM AND INVIIASTRUCTURE PRO.IRCT (CR,. 6071
aUC - CONSO1IATK1) INCOHK STATIiLENTS FY 1975 - 1982
(D OOOY})
1975          1976              1977               1978               1979              1980           1981     1982
Year elidilig Iuna 30                       Aettial    BAR    Actual    SAI    Actiwo       BAR    Acttal    SAR    Attual    SAR    Atulal   Aetual EUitluted
OI'ERATINU REVENUV.H
E!lectricity                            2,317    2,891   1,085    4,304   3,949    4,742   4,547    5,091   4,401            5,901   6,222    7,266       9,808
Witter                                     552      665      837       d6l   1.230    1,129   1,414    1,472   1,510    1.936   2.143    2,614            2,803
Sewerage                                     -         -        -                           -        -       43        -        B7
(Iti, (i%tu)                                 -         -        -         -       5         -        5         _       25        -       20         6          S
Total Reveliieu                     2,869    3,556   3,922    5,165   5,184    5,871   S,966    6,606   5,936    7,924   8,385    g,886    12,616
OPEIIAI NGl EXI1'ENS e
Si6larlea                                 687    1,061   1,114    1,178   1,515    1,307   1,382           1,460   1,135    1,621   1,219    1,755
Fiuel                                    1,450    1,787   1,860    1,991   2,554    2,165   2,842    1,753   2,783    1,917   3,563    5,666
Adm1,i,atrat ion                           462      636       660      695      83?       758      853       826     781       902   1,157    1,291         N/ A.
Mii11n1,aance                              318       359     406       419      436       461      401       5S9      586      675   1,303        952
Ptnwer                                     195       234     201       264      223       279      369       276     478       313      552       411
Saul dub1t/old attick                   -28           33     609        33       80        33      166        33     242        33      897        A1 I
Total OlaeratiLiag gxpeumuau        3,140    4,110   4,852    4,580   5,646    5,003   6,013    4,907   6,011    5,461   8,691   10,416   14,550
Incomae bufore Popreulatioih         (271)    (554)   (930)        5as    (462)      868      (47)   1,699       (75)   2,463    (306)    (530)  (1,934)
Depr"flatiu.n                              319      463      816       563      876       653      944    1,297  (1,294)   1,557   1,391    1,862    3,187
Zl,eaau before InteruaL              (590)  (1,017) (1,746)         22  (1,338)      215    (991)       402  (1,369)       906  (1,697)  (2,392)  (5,121)
IiitereML                                  99         75     131        71      260       162     413       268      642    1.110       771       420    1,923
Incuaa, before KxC. Iteas            (6fl9)  (1,092) (1,874)       (49) (1,598)       53  (1,404)       134  (2,011)    (203) (2,468)  (2,812)  (7,044)
KxeceptloawI Itemas  etc.                                 13649          _    (582)         _  (_12)        _         349        -   3,l54    (1,343)  (1,310)
Not Incuou                           (689)  (1,092) (5,526)        (49) (1,016)        53      198      134  (2,360)    (204) (5,722)  (1,469)  (5,734)
Average Htil Assets                         4,810    5,490   8,331    6,468  11,514    7,180  11,232   13,394  16,369   20,144  18,187   21,974   35.356
Rate of Return I                              N'Hg.     Has.    Neg.    NHl        Neg.         3     It'R.       3      Neg.     4.5      Neg.      Neg.    Ne.
Operati,l: Costa Coiverage                                                                                                                                             0
(law. Debt Service/Working Calaital)       0.9       0,7      0.9       1.0      0.9       1.0      0.8       1.0     0.9       1.1      0.0       1.1      0.1
Source:  GUC and mission compilations.



Tllg CANBIA
TOURISH & INVRASTRU(.TURE PROJECT (CR 602)
GUC - CONSO.IDIATEIID SOUIIS 6 APPWICATION OP FUNDS STATEINKTS FY 1915-1982
(D '000.)
1l9       -   1976                   197Z                 1978                 1979                 1980              1981         1982
Vualr E11111uR Jutall  J0              Art:,at     SAN      Actuat       WA      Actual       SAN      Actual      'SAl     Actual      SAl      Actual      Actual      Fstlatu t edi
SOIlIURCS
Nut lIncuuu befoure Iitereat          (590)   (1011)  (1.746)           22   (1,338)        215      (991)       402   (1,369)        906   (1.697)    (2,392)    (5.121)
Adds  Ueplrealution                    319        463       816        563       876         653       944      1,297    1,294       1.557    1,391        1,862       3.181
Adt/Dh uict.: b.xueljtluautet LL.a,      -          -         6                                                                                - --
ate. Inivulvig Movement of        --                                          -AR                (LIM)
Vuid.s                              (271)      (554)    (936)        58S         15       868    2,121        1,699       (75)    2,463   (1,271)         (604)       (624)
I.VS1S Uebt Survsea - PriuiailIaI        -         59         -         63          -         67        17         89         8        123         6          27          43
- Interest         99        124       131        335       260        665      __l3        961      __ 642    1,110        771         420       1!923
ToLal Uebt Sorvicu               99         183       131        398       260        732       430      1,050       650      1,233        777        447        1,966
Intoriusii Cash I1uioratiie         (370)       (737)  (1.067)        187      (245)       136    1.691         649       (725)    1,230   (2,048)    (1,051)    (1,347)
I.u:&-Tlerm DurrowisiI
Cuivt. No. 1                         262        491       245        545     1,028           -         4          -       881          -        97         257         -      U
Ossyt. No. 2 b Af(DI                   -        327         -      3,853     1,000      4,840      1.627      3,363     3,765        888   13,299        3,253       6,598   0
01 HI -                                           -       200          -        66           -                    -         -          -         -           -
StH1Ub  PeInuluai BDard                        o--                                                                -       500o
Total Horruwillu                262       IHl8       445      4,398    2,094        4,840     1,631      3,363    5,146         888   13,396         3,510       6.598
GUUVernodiltl Luntribul1luil             -      1.549       839        434       400         215    1.296           -    2,439           -    3,091        4.233       3,825
lAIAl.SOUlltgB              .s112)    1 l.I       ,,2l       IQ12   .IA4!.         l.2ll    ht6!!.      MI.Q      6,U26    I&1!.   !4A12           ,6623       2.Q21
Capiltal Invastm:lst                             866    1,170       4,937    2,716        5,161   5,091        3,207    8,887       1,783   14,742       10,659        7,784
WUirkisg (NSp1tal  udreoasu (DIcreauaL  ,         164      (953)        82      (467)         90      (479)       805   (2.021)        335    (303)       (3,967)      1.307
IDbL Surviee CLoverago (Limo..)          NIl.       Nill      Nil.        1.5      Nil.        1.2       Nil.       1.6       NIL        2.0       NIL         NIl.       NIL
U)



TOURISM A INFRASTRUCTURN FROJMLM (CA 602)
0100: - CONS0LIDATIM AAIA4CK SIIE8TS FY 1975-1982
1975          1976                   1977    _197                              1979                 19S0              1981       952
Yu.ar kiIsI!BA .1lu 3u                    Acg,aal      SAN     Actual       SAN      ActuIl      MAR      Actual      StAR     Aca          AN-    Actual       ACtUal   cat.mited
ASSh'tS
Flxedi Aoets
Oruoa  Asioeta                          8,520      9,911    19,321      12,248   20,404      13,473   26,101    27.783   32,454    31,272   37,468           47J819      70,618
L.oU   Slaprueeatiius                  3,320      4,123  7,850         5,099    8,726        6,262   11.314       8,185   14,502    10,562   19,045         22S294      25,481
Nut Aussuie  In. 0puratIlus             5,192      5,185   11,471        7.149   11,678       7,211    14,787     19,578   17,951    20,710   18,423         25,525      45,207
Cugigtriiut lois Il Progruas              606       1.043       930      S,002    2,563      11,304    4,695    _,521    9,106          4,922    18,425       19,791      4.707
Tutal VIxuod Abuut                    5,7'J8     6,831   12,401      12.151   14,241    1,5815   19,482    23,099   27,057    25,612   36,848              45,316      49,914
Cutrralut AMMLtc
S1us-kw                                 1,157 )               1,863 )              2,353 )              3,743 )              5,004 )              4,926        4,751      5,942
DUISOuIL Work In l5rugrust,                216 )                331                  432 )                 IIS )                 17 )                241         203        551
Ascoiiuts Necelviible                     887 )   3,871       1,041 )   4,243      1,322 )   4,653      1,976 )   5,808       1,597 )   6,523    3,198         2,348      4,164
Suinidry Debtiors                         260 )                 382 )                753 )              2,597 )              2.595 )               3,321       2,108      2,612
Csasls A &Hsk                                3)    _              1 )                 19)                   23 )                                       ?_ 68 )   I 178    3,185
'I'itt  Lstrrusit Asauta              2,523      3,871     3,624      4,243    4,879       4,653    8,458        5,808    10,081      6,523   11,843        9,590      16,454
ItOrAI  ASS1S .1  lY.Z 12&191    *a&3I    1hf2t   12&112    ZMM14.    HiAM                                    M22z    Z2t1    JIaiaa   tuA.21             Ai4gt b *Ati1
ItIUSTY 6 IABLI.TIES
(h,vargsmua,it Eqiqity                  5,489       7,863    S,725       8,297    6,125       8,752    7,421       8,592    7,421       8,572    9,788         5,489      5,525
Capital Oranuts                              -          -       500                  500           -      500                   Soo          -       500       4,857       5,866
D)uvalupmu,nt Funisi18 -i                                    -                         -          -                     -    2,439           -    3,183        7,338     10,115
Provsinial cap. Uusurve          S         25          _        758          -       687          -       616           -      520           -       422         322         1SO
Nuvalatinss Resurvu                         -        580    9,955       1,262    9,955       2,615   12,6S7       4,596   14,564        6,903   14,555       15,213     15,214
ACC11sulatud Deficits                  (IJ67)   (2,767)  (7.200)   (2,816)  (8,217)   (2,763)  (8,151)   .(h.29) (10,521)   (2,833) (16,219)   (17,688)  (23,42S)
Tultal Slulty                         4,640      5,676    9,738       6,743    9,050        8,424   13,071    10,539   14,923    12,642   11,829            15,531     13,480
l.wsM Tuar Dllebt
Ouvt, lawn Nu. C/A                       1,014      1,829     1,319      2,311    2,347       2,244     2,351      2,155      3,232      2,032     3,329       3,586       3,586
lluvt. LI,JII N... (EKxuerial)                        327         -      4,180     5,000      9,020    2,627      12,383    6,392       13,271   19,691       22,944     29,542
(I'HB                                        -          -       200          -       266           -       249          -       241          -       235         208         165
Statu Pruasi.IuI Silir,l                    --                              -         -          -          -          -       500          -       500         SOO         500
TulIl l.utig-Turm Ddbt                1,074      2,156      I,559     6,491    3,613    11,264    S,227         14,538   10,365      15,303   23,755        27,238     33,19
Currant I.lab IIt lou
ACLuIIItajst CUlur-ul                     991 )               2,334 )              3,369 )              5,028 )              4,532 )               2,948        ,P2, 703E 6
Sundry CrutSlturs & Acernalt              697 ) 2870            743      3 160    1,261 )       40        257 )       830    3,874 )    ,210    31,781         5,0104      5,353
Diak Ovurdrsalt & S.T. Ilabt              694 )               1,123 )              1,071 )              1,126 )               1,685 )              4,262       1,743       7,325
Cumasuoer Dueposltu                        225 )       _        56  )                756 )    -131 )  _231                    1,759 )              2.116       2.554       3|581      f
TuLal  Utirra,st l.iabillIlud         2,607      2.870    4,768        3,160    6,457       3,480    9,642       3,H30   II5S50       4,210   13,107        52,137     19,095
rilAIl, OlqIrTY & lAKIIIITIES    .Adi6J!   '    H    1L*21    1f i2i   12&.1.2  Q &M             HA          am i2z   JLIM        U&2M    teAs21        aa29.   9H&2tO
lDubt/E.lullty Hilli.                     21/71       28/72     I5/83      49/51    28/72       S7/43    29/71       S/42    41/39        55/45    66/34        63/37       72/28
Ourrut Hitl Io                               1.0        1.3       0.8         1.3      0.8         1.3       0.9        5.S       0.9        1.5       0.9          0.8       0.9
NL  CurreLnt Asucts                          (84)    5,001   (1,344)   (,0)83)  (1,578)          1,173   (18184)      1,978   (1,769)    2,312   (1,264)    (2,547)   (2,641)
SOutc::  GUC aliid mission compilations. 



- 52 -
Annex 6.5
THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT (Credit 602-GM)
GTUC: ELECTRICITY AND WATER TARIFFS 1974-81
*   FECTIVE   A=c. 1   DEC. 1   SEZZ. 1  OCT. 1   OCT. I  OCT. I
____                      DATE       IS7S~ZL    1979    1976      L9.,   197?    t198
VATER TARIMF
1. Dowetic
All econsutiou    DIIOOO 011"        1.00      1.20      _        -                  -
lot  500o  al1tins                   1.00      140      1.50    1.50        2.00     2.00
2ad 5000 gallons                     1.00      1.20     2.00    2.00        2.67     2.67
1.00     1.20    2.70.    2.70        3.60     3.60
2. Conmrcial/TidustrIal
All conuumptin    D/h000  alnms    1.50        2.25     2.70    2.70        3.60     3.60
3. Local Authorities D110l ganlous      1.50    2.25    1.50    1 50          2.00      2.00
4. locels and C'Ls1s  DI1000 xallons    1.0      22         .02   4.0(         5.1      5
5 KAsbwn Ch rg!    D/=o.h     X ~150    2.25    4.00    4 0-        S 3     lGE
5. K=Lmlan Charse    olzanh              ---                        -5.33    10.00
zrz=cRIC. T.AWT.S
6. ludustrial
Xw-dmom Densad    DIIVA/onth      j 13.50    17.50   20.00   20.00         26.67   3'.GO
VISItS            D/IM  consuc.d    0.11n     0.13    0.14    0.172         0.23     0.26
mInIvgu  charse    D/rknth            -         -        -        -         5.33  1600.CO
7. Domestic 1i
'-t BloekL        D/ wh           |0.19       0.19    0.20    0.232        0.31      0.333
2rd Block                            C.16     0.18    0.21    0.242        0.32      0.37
3rd Block                         1-                     -        -        -        0.40
aLance                              0.14     0.17    0.22    0.252        0.34      0.4
Maninu  Charge    D/rneth            3.50     4.00    4.00    4.00         5.33    10.00
8. Commercia2. 21
lit Block         D/Kuh              0.19     0.20    0.22    0.252        0.34     0.'33
2ad Block                            0.18     0.20    0.22    0.252    0.34    0.37
3rd Block                             -       0.20    0.22    0.252    0.34         0.40
Balance                              0.16              0.2 222    02522    0.34     0.42
=ialzm Charge    Dat=th              3.50     2         4.00    4.00        s.33  10.G
9. Street Lishttng   D/Kwh              0.14     0.16    0.20                 0.31.
10. Vatervorks        DM&Wh              0.105    0.105   0.105   0.105   0.105   0.105
Votes re Flctrr'ir7t Tariffs
If rrom Aur. 1. 1974. 1st Black = 1st 2.1 e.1i consumed, :rJ alock = Uext 1OO 1=4 consumiel.
rrom Oct. 1. 1979.' l:t Slack = 1st 30 X-1 cotsu=ed. 'nd Alck =  exc ltO  t.i: consn=ed.
From Oct. 1, 1931. general tariff adcpred is 1st Block = !st 30 units, 2:d -ock = Next
100 uaits. 3rd Block = N-xt 1000 unirs.
2/ Fron Augp. 1. 1076. Bloeck struc:ure 5jr1ai as for Dotest:c (sce 1/ 4bove).
From Oct. 1. 1979. aon  =tlform tar:f c!f n 0..4 zcr unit adortrd.
From Oct. 1. I081, gencral tariff adauced (see 11 above).
3/ At peak.
Source: GUC.
June 19q84



53 _                        . kc6-6
THE GAMBIA
IN RASTRUCTURE AND TOURISK PROJECT
GCAtIA UTILITIES COMRPOATION
STAFF ANALYSIS - 1974 vs. 1982
DEPARnIENT                     PERMANENT            DAILY              CASUAL            TOTAL
STAFF              PAID                    _     -
1974      1982       1974    1982       1974    1982       1974  1982
ELECTRICITY
GeAeration                            103                25                   8              136
Transmission             .             95                  8                 56              159
Provinces                             120                 8                   _              128
Sub-Total                206       318       25       41         -        64        231   423
Production                             50                 34                 33              117
Distributiou                           43                 18                  8               69
ProviEces                               2                11                   _               13
Sub-Total                  88        95       37       63           -      41   j   125   199
HEA OFFICE
Transport                     -        49        -       -            -       3         -     52
Stores                        -        13        8       13           -      10         19    36
Meter Billing                          39        -        17          -       9             f 65
Accounts             ~~~60                --60
Accouts                                32        _1   .               _1                      34
Adml.nistration              37        19        _       50          _       13         37    82
Sub-Total                 108       152         8      81           _      36        116   269
GRAND TOTAL               402       565        70     185      I   _      141        472   891
Source: GUC.
June 1983



THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
TUIE GAMIBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION
ELECTRICITY DIVISION -UNITS GENERATED 1975 TO 1982
(Thousands of kw'h)
Location                 1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982*
Banjul                  20,704       21,396       24,128       231,578      17,097       21,193       259524       32,,131
(SAR Forecast)        (20,705)    (229746)    (24,128)    (26,149)    (279878)    (30,352)    (32,865)    (35,854)
Brikamia                   221          233          267          307          289           417          538          557
Manskonko                  215          237          148          307          289           417          538          398
Bansang                     99          112          117          149          157           291          317          367
Georgetown                 342          269          285          269          238           310          338          248
Buasse                     265          347          463          484          434          N/k           457          462   u
Farafenni                   82          137          169          215          246          459           440         360
TOTt%L            21,928       22,733        25,691       25,183       18,650       23,025       27,,964      34,523
*Inc. New Kotu Power Station
Source: GUC
June 1983
I



THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
THE GAMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION
ELECTRICITY DIVISION -UNITS SOLD 1975 TO 1982
(Thousands of kWh)
Location                 1975          1976         1977         1978         1979         1980        1981         1982
Banjul                 13,614        16,075      17,116        16,929       17,978       16,330      19,757       23,571
(SAR Forecast)        (14,255)      (15,922)   (17,727)       (19,478)    (21,335)    (23,538)    (25,823)    (28,537)
Brikama                   143           190         421           232          244          377         433          434
Mansakonko                 116          136         151           157          153          206          308         354
Bansang                     83          118         103           111          153          185          183         257  @
Georgetown                259           237         200           217          250          250          263         244
Basse                     246           297         249           433          350          420          459         467
Farafenni                  55           116         151           171          248          373         471          531
TOTAL             14,516        17,169      18,391        18,250      19,376       18,141       21,874       25,858
Source:  GUC
June 1983



THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
THE GAMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION
WATER DIVISION - GALLONS PRODUCED 1975 TO 1982
(Millions of Gallons)
Location               1975        1976       1977        1978        1979       1980        1981       1982
Banjul                595.2       596.2      567.9       673.2       601.8      531.4       927.3      979.3
(Sar Forecast)       (678.0)    (720.0)    (744.0)    (771.0)    (796.0)    (851.0)          N/A        N/A
Fatoto                                -          -           -           -          -         1.7          -
Yorobowal                                    -                           -          -         0.5 _
Karantaba                                                    -           -          -         6.1           -
Bwiam                                 -          -           -           -          -         0.5          -
Brikama                   -           -           -          -           -          -        N/A            -
Mansakonko                -           -           -          -           -          -        13.1           -
Farafenni                 -           -          -           -           -          -        45.2          -
Georgetown                -           -          -           -           -          -        15.2
Bansang                   --                      -          -           -          -         7.6
Basse                     -           -           -          -           -          -        40.7
TOTAL         595.2        596.2       567.9       673.2      601.8       531.4    1,057.9       979.3
Source: GUC
June 1983



INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PP9JECT
TIE CAtMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION
WATER DIVISION - GALLONS SOLD 1975 TO 1982
(Mlllons of Gallons)
Locattion             1975         1976        1977       1978        1979        1980       1981        1982
BauJul               436.6        482.5       482.1      549.2       577.0       658.0       720.5      785.)
(Sar Forecast)      (454.0)      (497,0)    (536.0)    (586.0)    (637.0)    (698.0)         (N/A)       (N/A)
Brikama               13.9         16.9        29.6       19.8        24.4        29.8        28.5       32 8
Farafenini               -            -           -          -         1.6         1.5       11.9        2' 1
Mtansakonko            2.4          5.4         6.7         6.9        5.7         6.2         8.8        9.1
Georgetown               -          5.6        11.5        9.3         5.0         4.8         7.5        9.1        >
Bansang                  -          2.4         6.0        6.1         3.9         2.2         3.2        3.4
Basse                    -         15.5        19X4       16.4        13.9        16.9        21.5           v
TOTAL        452.9        528.3       555.3       607.7       631.5      719.4       801.9       88' .
Source X GUC
0",



- 58 -                                Annex 7-1
THE GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (TOURISM COMPONENTS)
* (D '000) ,.
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    year 5   year 6
COSTS
InvestSent costs
Tourism related Infrastructure./                  526.98    439.55    3601.03  1141.79   1756.60
Superstruoture (hotels)
-Bakotu                           1,500.00
-Kotu Strand                                          1000.00   1000.00
-Kombo-Beach                                                               6000.00    6000.00
-Senegambia                                                                          14000.00
Airport Runway.
Operating coste.b/                              2500.00   2500.00   2500.00   2500.00
Hotels
-Bakotu                                      300.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00
-Kotu Strand                                                                293.00    374.00
-Kombo-Beach                                                                   -
-Senegambia
Road maintenance../
Hotel Training School./_                                                                  176.9
TOTAL COSTS                       1500.00   3326.98   4539.55   7701.03   10534.79  22907.50
BENEFITS
Tourist expenditure-2i                1058.00   1080.00    922.00    2387.00  1814.00   1083.00
Lands rents.(                             -         -          -         -         -       43.40
Pilot Horticultural Scheme^1              -          -         -         -         -       35-00
TOTAL BENEFITS.h/                 1058.00   1080.00    922.00   2387.00   1814.00   1161.40
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85 1985/86 86/87-87/88
Year 7    Year 8 Year 9  Year 10  Year 11  Year 12  2004/5
COSTS
Investment Costs
Tourism related Infrastructure etc.    1317.45
Superstructure (hotels)
-Bakotu
-Kotu Strand
-Kombo Beach                  6000.00
-Seneganbia                  14000.00
Airport Runvay
Operating Costs
Hotels
-Bakotu                        600.00   600.00   600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00
-Kotu Strand                   450.00   450.00   450.00    450.00    450.00    450.00
-Kombo Beach                      -    2500.00   2500.00   2500.00   2500.00   2500.00
-Senegambia                       -    3080.00   3080.00   3080.00   3080.00   3080.00
Road Maintenance                         34.00    34.00      34.00     34.00     34.00     34.00
Hotel Training school                   230.10   250.00    250.00    250.00    250.00    250.00
TOTAL COSTS                       23231.55  6914.00   6914.00   6914.00   6914.00   6914.00
BENEFITS
Tourist Expenditure.e/             3024.00  9504.00   10368.00  10368.00  11232.00  12096.00
Land rents.f/                        10.50    10.50       15.50     15.50     15.50     15.50
Pilot Horticultural Scheme.g/        35.00    35.00       35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00
TOTAL BENEFITS.h/                  2830.50  9549.5    10418.50  11282.50  12146.50  13010.50



Annex 7-1
-  ~ 59  ~               Page 2
Notes and Assumptions
a/ Tourism related infrastructure costs cover: Roads, sewerage, solid waste
disposal and beach cleaning, public beach facilities, hotel training
school, pilot vegetable growing scheme, investment and tourism promotion
components. Costs allocated annually in same proportion as disbursements
for project as a whole. (Annex 6.1.)
b/  Based on declarations made during survey in which an average operating
cost ranging from D3,000 to D9,000 per year per bed was determined for
four hotels. D5,000 was used in analysis for each hotel.
c/  1% of total investment costs of D3400 assuaed for each year.
d/ Actual data submitted for 1980/81 and 1981/82 with indications for 1982/83
of D250,000 - used throughout remaining period.
e/ Average daily expenditure per tourist assumed as follows: 1975/66 - D66;
1976/77 - D69; 1977/78 - D73; 1978/79 - D76; 1979/80 - D83; 1980/81 - D89;
1981/82 - D96; 1982/83 onwards DlOO. Number of visitors per hotel assumed
to be proportion of total national tourist arrivals, as is number of beds
in specific hotel to total bed capacity in The Gambia for each given
year. Total national tourist arrivals and estimated percentage of total
belonging to TDA hotels as follows:
1975/76                      21,000          and   6%
1976/77                      20,000                 6%
1977/78                      16,000                6%
1978/79                      26,000                9%
1979/80                     24,000                 7%
1980/81                      19,000                5%
1981/1982                    15,000                21%
1982/83                      22,000                36%
1983/84                      24,000      
1984/85                      26,000
1985186                      28,000 
1986/87                      30,000
These ranged from D43 to D100 in the four hotels. Number of visitors
determined times daily expenditure per tourist and, assuming each visitor
remains 12 days, equals estimates of benefits for each hotel. Expenditure
covers full board (D50), additional food and beverage (DIO), miscellaneous
sales from hotels (D10), departure tax (D15), excursion (D5), local
transportation, souvenirs and entertainment (D10). Gross profits and
costs from public utilities omitted
f/ Land rents in TDA are DIOO per bed per annum. Collection commenced in
1981. 1980/81 - 434 beds; 1981/82 and 1982/83 - 1050 beds; 1983/84 - 1550
beds assumed avaiLable in operating hotels.
gj/ Based on takings for 1980/81 and 1981/82 seasons.
h/ 1No shadow pricing of labour or foreign exchange assumed.
Source: Mission calculations based on Government data
June 1983



- 60 -
Annex 7-2
THE GAMBIA
INFASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM COMEPONES
SUIDAr OF TOTAL COLLECTED REV1EUES
OF HOTEL BED TAX AID AIRPORT DEPARTURE TAXES
From July, 1977 to December, 1982.
Hotel Bed Tax    Airport Departure Tax
(Dalasi)             (Dalasi)
1977 - 1978                           191,814.75
1978 - 1979                           358,845.00         199,245
1979 - 1980                           528,220.00        192,940
1980 - 1981                           484,272.00         177,975
1981 - 1982                           222,800.00         55,250 (July to
November)
1982 - 1983 (July to Dec)              88,720.00
1,874,671.75     625,410
Source: Mnistry of Information and Tourism and Finance and Trade
June 1983



BOlRROWERS' COMMENTS
- 61                                  Annex 8-1
Pasc 1
THE GAMlBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAF7 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CUll 16U-1 R513 -33 jJ3/15/834 22:04
8165J WO)iLLI6BA(4. N ibrl
6A  i3/15 20:53 t929 3G4-1 CiO-6 461 03/15/34 21:06o
/   wGA304  LCC112 NYA11G
UjWNX CU GVWA U3-
DANJUL 30/37 15 11 O6
ElATk
SH I \' S  APUX;
I -;LEVAL
dEFrrFRIii   YUbi LETTER 15 FEi5kUj4RY 13,-4 PLEASE TU INFjivai T[nAT
ijjtAFT PR;JECT  ,U1iPLLTIU;; riEPv.UT hAj iLEa_i FOUiPj) TU DDL SATIbFACTuRY
L,ii_ SAi"IATEii
F0rc P'r_-mAi:,,,T [nw_^
r ll sILtITinY UF   s  h I^  s AtIj TuJvr. 1 # 1
OJL  'TAT 15 1Jo44
March 1984



80BRORERS ' CO*        Annex 8-1
DORR~ERS'CONKENTSPage 
G.U.C.                                62 -
GAMBIA UTILlTIES CORPORATION
Tlephone: BANUL 275,276 A U49                        P.O. MOX 609
BANUL 82I Ext. 69                                    BANJUL
Yfekgpi: ELECrRICTY OR WATER WORKS                   REPUDUC OF THE GAADIA
RefsGUC/MD/804/1                          19th April 1984
Shiv S. Xapur, Esq
Acting Director-General
Operations Evaluation
1818 H Street
N.W. Washi}gton DC 20433
U . S . A
Dear. Sir,
RE: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON GAMBIA
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TOURISM PROJECT
(CREDIT 602-GM)
I wish to make the following coments on the above
report, a copy of which was sent to us.
Kotu Sewerage
4.57: You mentioned that no steps were taken by
the GUC to prepare for the future operation
of the sewerage system.  In faq: drr4-
execution of the project, one of our engineers
fr~om the Water Division liaised very closeIly 
wi~=thLe consultants and the suervis    staff
from the Public Works Deparent.  Later on,
after the creation of the 5ewezge Division,
our engineers took an active part in the connec-
tion-of the Senegambia Hotel to the system in
1982.
GUC Financial Performance
* 605:  The sewerage system is operating efficiently
according to the guidelines set by the World
Bank.
608:  A look at electricity generation figures
reveals that electricity units have doubled from
17.3 million kwh in 1972 to 34.2 millina kwh in
1982; such an increase in output is bound to
necessitate a corresponding increase in manpowex.
Also, cognizance must be taken of the fact that
GUC is obliged to operate several small generat-
ing stations which, given the geograpby of the
cointry, impose heavy transportation costs. -In
addition, GUC operates and maintains a significant
number of government owned generating sets, the
bulk of which are situated at health centres in
the Provinces.
/2....
The above comments from GUC have been incorporated in the identical
sections of the text.



Annex 8-1
BORROWERS' COMMENTS     Page 3
-63-
Th2se small stations constitute a heavy burden on
our financial resources.
Finally,GUC is restrained by the Government from
laying off staff, further curtai3lng its freedom
to operate on sound commercial principles.
Borrower's Views on the Environmental Impact of the Project. (Annex 8-1,
*6 : It must be borne in mind that the I-otu sewerage system   page 6)
vas designed to serve about 8,800 people. Tne GUC
expresses serious reservations about any plans to connect
hA:    residents of Fajara and Pipeline as sucji,scheme would be
uneconomical.  The residents in these areas are already
adequately served by individual septic tanks.
It is hoped that the views expressed abowe will be reflected
in the conclusions of the project completion report and the
final report.
Yours faithfully
FOR: GA4BISA UrILITIES CO'tPORATION
S * J . FORSTER
Technical Planning Engineer
*
The above comments from GUC have also been incorporated in the appropriate
paragraphs of the text.



ANNEX 8-1
Page 4
-64-
BORROWER'S VIEWS
ON THE
SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1/
OF THE PROJECT
1.       Befcre 1975, the resort sites were uninhabited and were used fcr
neither agriculture ner fishing, in essence human and economic activities were
net existing before this project was launched. Today the area is a vastly
different place changing from a virgin undisturbed scrubland to an established
rescrt area with modern infrastructure and services, develcpments that cculd
have taken decades tc come about witheut this project.
2.       This sudden development brought with it intangible cests by rapidly
confrenting the village populations near the tcurism area with fcreigners of
different cultural, social and ecenomic backgrounds.- The secial impact
includes such intangible costs as the "negative demonstration effects" result-
ing from the exposure of traditicnal Gambian society tc the behavicur of
Buropean tcurists. The cests resulting frem the shattering of existing
cultural values and the increase in sccial problems as begging, stealing and
prostitution have been evaluated as being very high.
3.       The social  costs wculd have been much higher had concerted effcrts
not been made by the varicus governmental and private bedies tc identify the
dangers of the industry with a view to obtaining a national support fcr
controlling these phenomena.
4.       The rescrts have created considerable employment for the nearby
villages but of a seasonal nature. Only about 30% of hetel employees work
year round, the remainder fcr about seven mcnths. This has created many
social problems within the nearby vifnlages where agricultural land has beceme
very scarce as a result of the growing populaticn forcing farmlands to be used
fcr settlements.
5.       Sharp differences have occured within the villages in Kembo St. Mary
area with a few people becoming very wealthy while the pecrest segments of the
society continued tc be niaffected by the development.
1/   The Bcrrower has expressly asked that its views on this subject be
included in the Project Completion Repcrt, exactly as it appears in its
version cf the PCR (Chapters XIX - pages 32 and 33).



-65 -                         ANNEX 8-1
Page 5
6.       A preper Sewerage will secn be ccmmissicned and it is hoped that the
residents ef Fajara and Pipeline will be connected te the system. 1/ This
will greatly imprcve sanitatien and the envircnmental quality of the area.
7.       The layouts fer the labour suppcrt areas have been made and plcts
have been give- for an urban set-up that will be created tc supply labcur and
provide services fcr the hotel industry. The pregramme cannct be evaluated,
as no majcr wcrk has taken place cn the site. The existing infrastructure,
water supply, electricity, telephenes and rcads could hewever easily be
extended to the settlement witheut much cest.
6.       Meanwhile the development at the Tcurism Development Area has brcught
about an increase in populaticn in the surrounding villages and housing has
become an acute problem in these villages.
7.       Strains have also been made on-the transport system in particular and
tc such services as medical facilities and security cperations arcund Banjul
and the Kembo St. Mary area.  There is certainly a need for strengthening
these services to ccpe with the high populaticn growth.
8.       In evaluating the social impact of the project, one can distinguish
between several phases; the land acquisition phase, the construction phase,
and tourism development phases. An 800 meter-wide strip cf land aleng the
seashore was leased by the district authority fcr 99 years tc the Minister in
charge of lands cn behalf cf the Gcvernment who has the autherity tc lease it
to third Parties with the consent cf the district autherity. The villagers
helding traditional rights over this area were handsomely compensated and some
of them constructed better houses while cthers used the ncney tc start small
retail shops and cthers just bought mere fcodstuffs for their families.
9.       The impact during the construction phase was mestly econemic: prices,
income and employment increased, men left farming tc find a job in censtruc-
ticn, lecal women built stalls tc sell handicrafts. The producticn of handi-
crafts also became highly commercialised, instead of being a chcsen career for
a particular caste. This was a positive secial impact as such a caste system
which has now been weakened tended to pclarise village communities.
10.      Ccnstructicn of rcads and provi'sicn cf utilities alsc disrupted
farming activities in parts cf Kctu. Fcllcwing the completien of the majcr
werks, the tewns in the Kcmbc-St. Mary area experienced a depressicn that is
still pinching. Nevertheless the sudden development of hotels and tourism has
since had a favcurable impact on employment and iztccme despite the seasonality
cf the industry. Foreign contrcl of business and services is gradually being
replaced by lecal control. Similarly as a result cf the investments and the
process cf urbanization many families are better off. The peor and the
illiterates however, have difficulties in adjusting tc the new envircnment.
1/   Although the GUC notes that the system was designed to serve about
8,800 peeple, it has strcng reservations abcut any plans to connect with
residents of the Fajara and Pipeline areas, whc are already adequately
served by individual septic tanks.



ANNEX B-1
-66 -                        Page 6
11.      Building and planning regulations fcr the Tcurism Development Area
have been drafted by the Physical Planning Office. Sc far there has nct
ccocurred significant damage to the environment in the area. The constructicn -
cf structurally and architecturally sub-standard hctels have been avoided and
land-use has been ccntrclled by invoking the Building and Planning regula-
ticns. The vegetaticn and the landscape cf the rescrt sites have nct been
sericusly affected by the develepment. The woods featuring mangoes, bacbab
and palm trees have been preserved and a nature reserve zene identified. This
apart from preserving the environment, vill contribute to the maintenance ef
the esc'ic feature of the area.  In the case of the beaches, however, certain
areas have been illegally mined by hotel constructors and this has sericusly
affected the sea flocr and if nct checked could render the area unsafe for
sWimming.
Source: PCR repcrt, Ministry cf Informaticn and TCurism, Banjul,
Octeber 1982.



