CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 602 GM
Project Agreement
(Infrastructure and Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE GAMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION
DATED JANUARY 12, 1976


﻿I
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
GAMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION (hereinafter called GUC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of the Gambia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that GUC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS GUC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. GUC shall carry out Parts C, D, I and J of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist GUC in the final design and supervision
of the execution of the works included in Parts C, D, I and J of the Project
and in generally carrying out said Parts of the Project, GUC shall employ not


﻿4
later than April 1, 1976 consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory
to the Association and, with respect to Part J only, to KfW.
(b)   GUC shall employ not later than six months after the date of this
Agreement, an adviser or advisers to GUC's Managing Director, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment (including terms of reference)
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Parts of the Project
to be carried out by GUC and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) GUC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by GUC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GUC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for Parts C and D of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) GUC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
aind procurement schedules for Parts C, D, I and J of tile Project, and ally material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   GUC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Parts C, D, I ind J of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the said Parts of the Project,
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Association's representatives to visit tile facilities and construction sites
included in Parts C, D, I and J of the Project, and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the said Parts of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds
and from   tile proceeds of the KfW  and ADB Loans.


﻿I
5
(c)   GUC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of GUC and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. GUC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GUC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning, or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) GUC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts C, D, I and J
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   GUC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Parts C, D, I and J of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by GUC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreeiment.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GUC
Section 3.01. GUC shall at all times manage its affairs, plan the development
of its properties and facilities and maintain its financial positioni in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices
under the supervision of experienced and competent management; and shall cause
its plant, equipment. properties and facilities to be maintained and all necessary
renewals and repairs thereto to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
ad ministrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. G UC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurcrs,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. (a) GUC shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its operations
(b)   GUC shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets
which shall be required for the efficient conduct of its operations.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. GUC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. GUC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of GUC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) GUC shall effect not later than December 1, 1975, an
increase in GUC's tariff for electricity and water services of at least: (i) 30% with
respect to its electricity services for hotels and commercial consumers; (ii) 15%
on the average of its electricity services for all other electricity consumers; (iii)
50% with respect to its water services for hotel and commercial water consumers;
and (iv) 20(/( with respect to its water services for all other water consumers.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GUC shall take or
cause to be taken, from time to time. all necessary steps within its power (including
adjustment of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce revenues sufficient to
cover (i) with respect to all of GUC's services, its operating expenses (including
depreciation) during 1977 and to produce an annual rate of return of not less
than 3% in 1978 and 1979, and 4.57 in 1980 on the value of GUC's net fixed
assets in operation: (ii) with respect to GUC's electricity services, an annual rate
of return in 1981 and thereafter of not less than 8" on the value of GUC's net
fixed assets in operation, (iii) with respect to GUC's sewerage services, an annual
rate of return in 1981 and thereafter of not less than 8(f on the value of GUC's
gross fixed assets in operation; and (iv) with respect to GUC's water services, an
annual rate of return in 1985 and thereafter of not less than 3% on the value
of GUC's net fixed assets in operation.
(c)   For the purposes of paragraph (b) above:


﻿7
() references to years shall be construed as references to fiscal years
of GUC;
(ii)       the annual rate of return for (A) all services of GUC (other
than its sewerage services in 1981 and thereafter) shall be
calculated by relating the net operating income from such
services for the year in questiou to the average of GUC's net
fixed assets in operation in the case of such services at the
beginning and at the end of the year, (B) GUC's sewerage services
(other than its sewerage services before 198 1) shall be calculated
by relating the net operating income from such services for the
year in question to the average of GUC's gross fixed assets in
operation in the case of such services at the beginning and at
the end of the year;
(iii)       the term  "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:
(A)   gross operating revenue accruing from GUC's services;
(B)   all expenses relating to such services of operation, administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes or any payment in lieu of taxes
and adequate provision for depreciation but excluding interest
and other charges on debt;
(iv)        the term  "value of GUC's net fixed assets in operation" shall
mean the gross book value of such assets less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, both as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation accep!table to the Association and KfW; and
(v)         the term "value of GUC's gross fixed assets in operation" shall
mean the gross book value of such assets, as valued from time
to time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation acceptable -to the Association and KfW.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association and GUC shall otherwise agree, GUC
shall not incur any long-term indebtedness unless GUC's net revenues for the fiscal
year, or a later twelve consecutive months' period, immediately preceding the date
of such Incurrence shall be at least 1.6 times the maximum debt service requirements
in any succeeding fiscal year, including the fiscal year in which the debt is to
be incurred, on all GUC's long-term    indebtedness (including the debt to be
incurred).


﻿8
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)        the term "long-term indebtedness" shall mean any debt maturing
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii)       debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of the contract or loan agreement providing for
such debt;
(iii)      the term  "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all
sources adjusted to take into account rates in effect at the time
of incurrence of such debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve consecutive months to which such revenues
related, less operating and administrative expenses, including
provision for taxes, if any, but excluding provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv)       the term "debt service requirements" shall mean the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)        whenever it shall be necessary to value in currency of the
Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by GUC, at the time such valuation
is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such
currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will
be reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. To achieve the objectives set out in Section 4.03 of this
Agreement, GUC shall implement any recommendations of the consultants
employed by the Borrower to carry out the tariff study included in Part H(4)
of the Project and relating to GUC's tariff structure and levels no later than July 1
1976.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5,01. This Agreement shall come into foi ce and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿9
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of GUC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 22 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify GUC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For GUC:
The Gambia Utilities Corporation
P.O. Box 609
Banjul
The Republic of the Gambia, West Africa


﻿10
Cable address:
ELECTRICITY
Banjul
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of GUC may be taken or executed by GUC's Managing Director or such other
person or persons as GUC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. GUC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of GUC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by GUC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
THE GAMBIA UTILITIES CORPORATION
By /s / I. M. Garba-Jahumpa
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, goods, works and services shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October
1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.    (a)   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more shall be let on the basis of competitive bidding after local advertising
and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000
may be executed by force account or through negotiated contracts.
(c)   Contracts for equipme,.t and materials estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $50,000 shall be let on the basis of competitive bidding after local
advertising and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association or
through negotiated contracts.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower and GUC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents. together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make SLIch
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower and GUC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of


﻿12
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons
for the intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and GUC and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its exe ition and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$50,000, the Borrower and GUC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed   copies of such   contract, together with   the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the Guidlelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower or GUC (as the case may require) and state the reasons for such
determination.


