CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 602 GM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Infrastructure and Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 12, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 602 GM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Infrastructure and Tourism Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 12, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1976, between THE REPUBLIC OF
THE GAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts C, D, I and J of the Project will be carried out by the Gambia
Utilities Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Gambia Utilities Corporation part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   The  Borrower has requested    the   African  Development Bank
(hereinafter called the ADB) to assist in financing Part I of the Project in an amount
of two million (2,000,000) Units of Account as defined in the Articles of Agreement
of ADB (hereinafter called the ADB Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and ADB;
(D)   The Borrower has requested the Government of the Federal Republic
of Germany to assist in financing, through    the German Kreditanstalt f1r
Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW), Part J of the Project in an amount of seven
million eight hundred thousand Deutschemark (DM7,800,000) (hereinafter called
the KfW Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
KfW; and
(E)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Gambia Utilities Corporation;
NOW TI-IEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Gambia Utilities Corporation of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Gambia Utilities Corporation pursuant to Section
3.01(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "Gambia Utilities Corporation" or "GUC" rmeans the Gambia Utilities
Corporation established by the Gambia Utilities Corporation Act, 1972 (No. 19):
(d)   "resort sites" means the resort sites of Kotu Beach, Kotu Point and
Kotu Strand;
(e)   "labor support area" means Kotu Town and its surrounding area
including the villages of Manjai Kunda and Kololi;
(f)   "Project area" means the area comprising the City of' Banjul, Kombo
St. Mary and Kombo North, including the resort sites and the labor support area,
(g)   "the respective project agencies" means with respect to the following
Parts of the Project: (i) Part A, the Borrower's Public Works Department, (ii) Part
B, the Borrower's Posts and Telecommunications Department- (iii) Parts FE and
F, the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism and Information; (iv) Part G, the Borrower s
Department of' Agriculture; (v) Part H, the Borrower's Ministry of' Economic
Planning and Industrial Development; and (vi) with respect to any of the above
Parts of the Project, suCh other ministry, department or agency of' the Borrower
as the Borrower may, with the agreement of the Association, entrust with tihe
carrying out of such Part of the Project-
(h)   "Project Management Unit" means the Project Management Unit to
be established pursuant to Section 3.03 of' this Agreemnt;
(i)   "Tourism Liaison Board" means the Tourism Liaison Board established
by the Borrower in September 1972 under the Borrower's Town and Country
Planning Act; and


﻿5
(j)    fiseal year" in relation to any year means the period commencing
July I in that year through June 30 of the following year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Crelit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various CLIrrencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of tlie Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
AcCount in accordance with the provisions of Sefedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between tlie
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures male (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services requirel
for the Project and to be finanCed Out of tle proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (otlier than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordane witl the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be Jine 30, 1981 or suCh later date
as the Association shall establish. Tlie Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of suc  later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associaition a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 ofl' i ) per annum on tle principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from  time to time.
Setion 2.06, Service charges shal be payable semi-annually on April I and
Oetober I in eae  year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay tlhe principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April I and October I commenci ng
April 1, 1986 and ending October 1, 2025, eaci installment to and including the
installment payable on October 1, I 995 to be one-half of one per cent (H 2 of
I';) of suelh principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-hal f per cent (- I-j,2'r) of suc  prinCipal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specifled for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions,


﻿6
ARTICLE [H
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the respective project agencies,
carry out Parts A, B, E, F, G and H of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering and financial
practices and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, until the Project is completed, provide on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association funds sufficient to cover such costs
of the Project as are not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or out of
sums provided by other co-lenders.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Gambia
Utilities Corporation to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Gambia Utilities Corporation to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(d)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit to the
Gambia Utilities Corporation in an amount equivalent to five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000) or such other sum as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Gambia Utilities Corporation, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association and after consultation with KfW.
(e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out its Parts
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿'7
(b)   The Borrower shall employ: (i) technical assistance personnel to assist
in carrying out a hotel training scheme under Part F of the Project, and (ii) a
marketing manager and a plant maintenance engineer to assist in carrying out the
food storage and marketing program under Part C of the Project. The qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment of the said persons shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall send to the Association within six months of the
date of this Agreement the terms of reference and schedule of work proposed
for the persons to be employed pursuant to paragraph (b) above.
Section 3.03. (a) the Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project
reconstitute not later than three months after the date of this Agreement its
Tourism Liaison Board by the appointment of the following persons as members:
(i) the Deputy Secretary General, President's Office, who shall be Chairman; (ii)
the Physical Planning Officer in charge of the Physical Planning Office in the
Borrower's Ministry of Local Government and Lands, as Secretary; (iii) the
Permanent Secretaries, Ministries of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
and of Information and Tourism, and of Finance and Trade or their representatives;
(iv) Chief Economist, Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development;
(v) the Managing Director, the Gambia Utilities Corporation; (vi) the Project
Manager appointed pursuant to Section 3.04 hereof; and (vii) the DLirCctor 01' Public
Works.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
entrust the Tourism  Liaison Board with responsibility for: (i) preparing time
scheduiles for all Parts 01 the Project, (ii) coordinating efforts of GLUC and the
respective project aglencies in carrving out the Project and the related superstructure;
(iii) approving drafts of all agreements relating to the Project which GUC and the
respective project agencies may wish to conclIde wI th consultan ts, contractors or
suppliers: (iv) approving all authorizations of payments for expenditures in respect
of the Project: (v) establishing and maintaining the accounting system referred to
in Section 3.07(a) hereol'; and (vi) ensuring compliance by GUC and the respective
project agencies with their respective obligations in respect of the Prcject.
(c)   The Borrower shall not later thanl six months al'ter the date of this
Agreement establish within the Touism Liaison Board a unit satisfactory to the
Association (in this Agreement called the Project Management Unit) which shall
tinder the Cirection of the TotIrism  Liaison Boartd have day-to-day responsibility
for the execution of the functions of the Board as set otit in paragraph (I) above.


﻿8
(d)   The Borrower shall not later than three months after the date of this
Agreement, enact appropriate legislation which will enable the Tourism Liaison
Board to discharge its functions under paragraph (b) of this Section.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall appoint a qualified and experienced person
to be the Chief Executive of the Project Management Unit. The qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment of the Chief Executive, who
shall be the Project Manager referred to in Section 3.03(a) hereof, shall be
satisfactory to the Association. The Project Manager shall report directly to the
Chairman of the, Tourism Liaison Board with respect to all Project matters.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall (i) within three months of the date of this Agreement send to the Association
for its approval the terms of reference proposed for the socioeconomic and
alternative fuel studies to be carried out under Part H of the Project; and (ii) cause
the socioeconomic study to be completed within two years, and the alternative
fuel study to be completed within one year, of the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause (i) its Public Works Department to maintain the roads, foot
and bicycle paths, buildings and shopping areas and the hotel training school and
facilities included in the Project; (ii) its Posts and Telecommunications Department
to operate and maintain the telecommunications facilities to be constructed or
installed under the Project, (iii) the Tourism Division of the Ministry of Information
and Tourism to administer the shopping areas and operate the hotel training school
included in the Project- (iv) the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Health,
Labour and Social Welfare (A) to arrange for the collection and disposal of solid
waste and the cleaning of beaches in the tourism area by the Kanifing Urban District
Council or by a private contractor and (B) to provide adequate environmental
sanitation, including the control of mosquitoes and other insects in the tourism
and labor support areas; and (v) the Department of Agriculture of the Ministry
of Agriculture or any other organization acceptable to the Association to operate
the food storage and marketing program included in Part G of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall provide the Ministries mentioned in paragraph (a)
above, with the funds, facilities, services and other resources which they will require
to perform their obligations in respect of the Project, including in the case of
the Ministry of Agriculture an initial advance of not less than 75,000 Dalasi by
July 1, 1976 for the food storage and marketing program.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project Management Unit
to establish not later than six months after the date of this Agreement an accounting


﻿9
system. satisfactory to the Association, for Parts A, B, E, F, G and 1- of the
Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) of the
Project Management Unit for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) cause the Project Management Unit to furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the Project Management
Unit's financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) cause the Project Management Unit to furnish
to the Association such other information concerning its accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from    time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for Parts A. B, E, F, G and
H of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services for the Project financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for Parts A, B, E, F, G and H of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the said Parts of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services for those Parts of the Project financed out ot the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enahle the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and dIocumelits; and (iii) shall furnish to


﻿10
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall not later than one year after the date
of this Agreement enact building and planning laws which (i) will permit the
Physical Planning Office of the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government and Lands
to exercise adequate control over land use; and (ii) will assign to the said office
full responsibility for the issuance of building permits.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the said Physical Planning Offi.e to enforce
in the tourism and labor support areas architectural and landscaping standards and
regulations satisfactory to the Association and shall send to the Association within
one year of the date of this Agreement full details of said standards and regulations.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall send to the Association not later than six
months after the date of this Agreement, for the Association's approval, details
of the measures (including the timetable) it proposes to take to carry out the
program for the promotion of tourism investment included in Part H of the Project.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall arrange for the importation of adequate amounts of heavy fuel oil for use
by the Gambia Utilities Corporation in its Power Station at Banjul.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall arrange for the provision of appropriate
financial resources on  terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
amounting in the aggregate to not less than 5 million Dalasi of which not less
than (i) I million Dalasi will be provided within one year; (ii) an additional 2
million Dalasi within two years; and (iii) a further 2 million Dalasi within three
years, of the date of this Agreement and which shall be sufficient to cover at
least half of the long-term debt capital requirements up to 1980 of bona fide
investors of good standing andl probity who will want to invest in hotel building
and development in the Gambia.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall (i) set the rents payable by hotel developers
for land in the resort sites at levels satisfactory to the Association; (ii) cause such
rents to be reviewed every two years and revised as necessary to reflect changes
in business and economic conditions affecting hotel business at the resort sites;


﻿11
and (iii) in the case of hotels under construction impose a moratorium on the
payment of such rents during the period of construction.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be required to ensure the
construction of the necessary number of hotel rooms at the resort sites by
December 1, 1986 in order to make the Project economically viable; provided,
and to the extent that, there shall in the opinion of the Borrower and the
Association be adequate tourist demand for such rooms.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall make available to the Gambia Utilities Corporation during fiscal
year 1976 as a grant sums amounting in the aggregate to not less than 500,000
Dalasi to cover GUC's working capital requirements.
(b)   The Borrower shall make available to GUC sums adequate to cover
any operating deficits (after adequate provision for depreciation) incurred by GUC
during fiscal year 1976.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall complete by October 30, 1978 or such
other date as the Borrower and the Association shall determine, improvements to
its Yundum Airport which would permit the use of that airport by most long haul
aircraft.
Section 4.09. Before any person is at any time appointed to the position
Of Managing Director of the Gambia Utilities Corporation, the Borrower snall
consult with tile Association regarding the qualifications and experience of that
person.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pu rsualt to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   The Gambia Utilities Corporation shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or the Gambia Utilities Corroration shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿12
(c)   the law establishing the Gambia Utilities Corporation shall have been
amended, suspended, waived or repealed so as to materially and adversely affect
the carrying out of the Project;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Gambia Utilities
Corporation;
(e)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Gambia Utilities Corporation will be able to perforri its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(f)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the ADB Loan or the KfW Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the ADB Loan Agreement or
the KfW Loan Agreement (as the case may be), or
(B)   the ADB Loan or the KtW Loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)       Subparagraph (i) above shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under the ADB Loan Agreement
or the KfW Loan Agreement (as the case may be), and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Gambia Utilities
Corporation; and


﻿13
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) or (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Gambia Utilities Corporation have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and the Gambia Utilities Corporation, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the signing of the ADB and KfW Loan Agreements;
(d)   the appointment of a Project Manager in accordance with Section 3.04
hereof; and
(e)   the receipt by the Association of terms of reference, satisfactory to
the Association, for the Project Management Unit.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Gambia Utilities Corporation, and
is legally binding upon the Gambia Utilities Corporation in accordance with its
terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Gambia
Utilities Corporation, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Gambia
Utilities Corporation in accordance with its terms.


﻿14
Section 6.03. The date May 11, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.03 and 4.05
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 22 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Trade of the Borrower is
clesign-.ed as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of the Gambia
West Africa
Cable address:
MINFIN
The Republic of the Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s / I. M. Garba-JahuMpa
Authorized Representathe
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Categori                   Dollar Equialent)      to be Financed
(I)   Civil Works                     941,000            65% (representing
for Parts A through                                the estimated for-
G o' the Project                                   eign expenditure
component)
(2)   Equipment and                   924,000
materials for
Parts A through G
of the Project:
(a)   Directly im-                                 100 ; of foreign
ported                                       expenditures
(b)   Imported and                                 75§; (representing
procured lo-                                 the estimated for-
cally                                        eign expenditure
component)
(3)   Professional ser-               930,000            100W9 of foreign
vices for Parts A                                  expenditures
through H of the
Project
(4)   Unallocated                   1,205,000
TOTAL        4,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.


﻿17
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
expenditures incurred after February 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $150,000; and (b) expenditures under Category (2) for Part C
of the Project until the Association notifies the Borrower that it is satisfied that
agreements, satisfactory to the Association, have been signed for the delivery of
the heavy fuel oil required for such Part of the Project.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph  I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures threunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may. without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents tile amount
of such expenditures which wouldI otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to promote the development of tourism in the Gambia
through the provision of necessary infrastructure and the expansion of the
Borrower's public utilities. The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    (1)   Extension of the Badala Parkway.
(2)   Construction of 2 access roads from the Badala Parkway to the resort
sites.
(3)   Pavement of common areas in the resort sites.
(4)   Construction of a lighted foot and bicycle path to connect the resort
sites.
(5)   Construction of secondary roads in the labor support area.
B.    (I)   Construction of a telephone trunk line to the resort sites and the labor
support area.
(2)   Installation of telephone and telex facilities for the resort sites.
C.    (1)   Installation of facilities for pumping heavy fuel to GUC's generating
facilities.
(2)   Construction of a fuel storage rVSeeVOir.
(3)   Installation of machinery to adapt existing Ilalf Die diesel engines for
the use of heavy fuel oil.
D.    Construction of a sewerage system serving the resort sites consisting of a
collection system, pumping stations and a stabilizatiou pond.
E.    Construction of: (i) public health facilities for the beaches of the resort sites;
(ii) market stainds for the sale of local handicrafts, fruits and other goods;
and (iii) access paths and nearby parking facilities.
F.    Establishment of a hotel training school and facilities in the Project Area
to provide vocational training for about 50 trainees every year.


﻿19
G.    Food storage and marketing program   to increase locally produced food
consumed by tourists.
H.    (1)   A study of the use of groundnut shells as an alternate fuel for
generating electricity.
(2)   A sociocconomic study to assess the likely social and economic impact
of tourism in the Gambia.
(3)   A program for the promotion of tourism investment in the Gambia.
(4)   Management and tariff study for GUC.
(5)   Provision of technical assistance to strengthen GUC and its operations.
1.    Expansion and improvement of the electric power system in the Project Area
including the provision of related consultancy services for final design and
supervision.
J.    Expansion and improvement of the water supply system in the Project Area
including the provision of' related consultancy services for final design and
superv ision.
The Project is expected to be completed by Decemb.er 31 , 1980.


